ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	I would like to welcome everyone, especially the people in the public gallery. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance, in trade union K. I call Mr Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. All signals are green, headlined the Central Planning Bureau. With an increase of almost 2.5%, a surplus of 0.5% and a fall in unemployment, all signs are on the green. It is summer, no more spring, said Job Swank of DNB delighted. The economy is creepy and showing the highest growth in ten years. The balance is positive, confidence is back, companies are investing and unemployment is falling. DNB doesn't even see bears on the road for a while. Well, that's good news. That goes well with the Dutch economy and for this Minister of Finance, but not for the hardworking Dutchman. He got a big bill from the crisis and now he's hungover. He stays behind with an empty wallet, a fried welfare state and a distorted social security. Mr Rutte and Mr Dijsselbloem have kept a good house in the Netherlands. The working Dutchman is allowed to plode until after his 67th birthday, his pension has largely evaporated, the protection of dismissal has been reduced, the care is priceless and distorted and his rent is growing every year. So the question is: who is it summer for? The Minister is proud to announce in the Spring Paper that he has raised 8 billion more in taxes; 8 billion more than expected, and that is also structural. In 2016 it was 11 billion, and that while purchasing power this year is not increasing 1%, as promised in the 2017 Millions Note, it is only 1.0. That's pure stealing. Retrieve 8 billion more in taxes and then give back 90% less purchasing power than promised, but call on employers to raise wages; you have to dare. First working Netherlands can pay for the crisis and now that things are getting better, they get a crumb. What am I saying? Not even a crumb, if only it was a crumb! And the VVD stands there and looks at it. "Working Netherlands deserves lower taxes"; don't make me laugh. However, extra money has been found for development aid, 0.5 billion; for the COA, while asylum seekers are empty, 144 million; for a government plane, 90 million; for officials, to compensate them for their pension, 342 million; for a gold-plated departure scheme at the Tax Office, 80 million. But there isn't a penny for hardworking Holland. The only thing that benefits from this additional growth is Africa because development aid is linked to GDP. So our bloke gets Africa half a billion extra aid money. It's the world upside down. DNB, the CPB, this minister, everyone's talking about getting wages up a bit, but nobody I hear about lower taxes. No one, not even the VVD. Why not? I can still hear Mark Rutte say: if the economy continues to grow, the burden will go down; the middle class must see that things are getting better. Butter on the fish, I'd say, or is it typically another one of our Mark Rutte's empty promises? In order to comply with the 3% standard in Brussels, this Minister put too much pressure on the brakes five years ago, with all the harmful consequences. We all agree on that now. But why not put some of the surplus into lower taxes now? In fact, it is even in the budgetary rules, for the attentive reader. Budgetary rule 6, the windfall formula, states that if the Netherlands meets the MTO objective of the SGP and the EMU balance shows a surplus, 25% of that surplus is used for relief. This Minister of Finance is therefore obliged to reduce taxes by at least 350 million for this year, by 1 billion for next year and by 2 billion for 2019. Or is this another empty promise and a false budget rule? Finally, I turn to the right with the Bible. Unfortunately, I do not see so many people from the right with the Bible, except the VVD spokesperson. Right with the Bible is actually Kunduz minus Clover, because it was the VVD, D66, the CDA and the Christian Union who increased taxes by 9 billion in 2012 and thereby aggravated the crisis and demolished the welfare state. It was they who further increased the AOW age, demolished the WW, knocked down the mortgage interest rate deduction cottage, increased rents by 10%, dismantled care for the elderly and increased VAT from 19% to 21%. They've taken care of all that. They also promised to reduce the burden in order to compensate for that dramatic package, but then none of that happened with the PvdA at the wheel. But now they are sitting at the formation table and it is about whether they are going to implement the actually promised reduction for the next four years or whether the demolition ball goes even deeper into it. That's the question. I am afraid that the Pechtold I cabinet wants to reform further. There is so much more to be done: the pension system, the labour market, the housing market, the tax system and care. I can see the D66 spokesperson drooling. That's why I'm making the call: please leave it. Mr Pechtold with his smooth talk set the reform agenda for the Netherlands. He is not here for the Netherlands. He's here for Brussels. So be alert and be extra vigilant, because there is a europhile in sheep's clothing at the table. One more thing about Brussels. I'm worried, very worried. They have learned nothing from the Brexit in Brussels. On the contrary, they are pleased that this critical Member State has lost weight. Then they can now move forward with full force. No one is stopping the Junckers of this world from taking further steps towards a federal Europe. This is his moment. He can't do it fast enough. One paper after another is playing a role: Europe's future, monetary union, finances, globalisation, social security and even a European army. They are all far-sighted, but where does this cabinet stand in the debate on the future of Europe? It's quiet as a mouse, and that's dangerous, because then it happens to us. Is the cabinet, for example, for or against its own euro budget? For or against the issue of eurobonds? An own Minister of Finance? Mandatory introduction of the euro in all 27 Member States by 2025? A European army? A European IMF? European tolling? European taxes to generate own revenue for Brussels? The CCCTB? The FTT? The green taxes? The European Border Guard? Asylum and migration policy? Lifting our one-billion-dollar discount? In all scenarios, this discount will be lifted. The plans are ready, all you have to do is sign. So today I like to get hobby or calf from this minister. Or is it for a new cabinet of Supreme Pechtold to decide on this? Well, then I know the outcome. So once again I appeal to the Christian Union, the VVD and the CDA: be alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. We're out of the crisis, but not everyone is aware of it. At macro level, the Netherlands is doing very well, but on an individual level many people still have to notice. That is a bit the motto, not only of the last election campaign, but above all of the four years ahead. At the same time, real solutions, for example in the form of tax cuts, can only be achieved through a government agreement. In the meantime, I note that many are standing up for their interest. Moreover, it is right that they do so and sometimes expect miracles from the government. It rains pleading for more money, not only from primary school teachers, but also from VNO-NCW. He was there as the chickens to reject arguments from De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Bureau for a raise, but in the meantime he called on the politicians to quickly reduce and invest the burden. Each euro can only be spent once. The final consideration can therefore only be made in one place at the moment: at the formation table. That is the place to look at necessary things like tax cuts and where additional spending goes. And immediately structural and not one-off in the current financial year. That's the spring note we're discussing today. This gives the financial intermediary of the year and is the first regular moment for the cabinet to make changes to the current year's budget. Then there is not so much that you can achieve in the last few months of the year. The current policy-poor Spring paper of the Demissionary Cabinet provides a response to some of the urgent issues, processes the reduction of gas revenues and processes savings losses from cuts that have not been realised. As far as the latter is concerned, I can say that the VVD is pleased that planned cuts in monument deductions and training deductions are off the job. We have seen that the combination of cuts and thinking about a new system, such as subsidies rather than deductions, makes such a new system very difficult to implement. Maybe there'll be a better chance of that later. The most special thing about the Spring Paper and documents such as the Central Economic Plan and the Cordelia recently received from the CPB is the determination of how well the Netherlands has recovered. With this recovery, we are in Europe's leading group. For example, you can see that the economy is growing even faster than expected. Where the Millions Note was based on 1.7% growth this year, this has been pushed up to 2.1% in the Spring Note. This has a positive impact on the fall in unemployment and the budget deficit that is still turning from a forecast deficit at Princess Day last year of 0.5% of GDP, to a surplus of 0.2 GDP. It also has a positive effect on public debt, which is now going to fall below the 60% European standard for the first time. You can also see it underdoing EUR 1 billion. One of the reasons for this is that after a few years of exchange rate setbacks, we now have another exchange rate setback. He's contributing to this. Taxes also show windfalls due to increased economic growth. In short, rising economic growth, rising budget surplus and falling unemployment. This is due to the resilience of all Dutch, entrepreneurs, employees and pensioners. And yes, also to the cabinet that supported it with the good measures to make the Netherlands more competitive again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	I told you, this is indeed a good news show. But, as Mr Harbers said, is this good news for the individual hardworking Dutchman? He was promised a 1% increase in purchasing power, some even 1.1%, but that now appears to be 0.1%. This is due to higher inflation than expected. Doesn't Mr Harbers think that we should compensate those Dutch people now that the sun is shining for everyone, for this minister and the coalition, but not for that hard-working Dutchman, who is further caught in his wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	No. I share Mr Van Dijck's analysis. We're a long way from here. That would have been the next sentence in my speech. People need to notice that even more. And yes, if you make agreements on Prince's Day about purchasing power and change over the course of the year, then you have to look at that. As far as I am concerned, you are looking at this in the next year's budget and at the picture for the next four years, even though there are very few things that you can quickly adapt and implement for everyone during the current year. I note, moreover, that this type of derogation is not abnormal. Also, what you do at Prince's Day is always a snapshot. In the past it has also worked the other way: people had an unexpected windfall, in the sense that purchasing power was better during the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	Does Mr Harbers therefore think that this outgoing Minister of Finance should not comply with the budgetary rules? I just read out budget rule 6, the windfall rule. It clearly states that if at Prinsjesdag a deficit of minus half was expected for the Netherlands and now there appears to be a surplus of plus 0.2....................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	Those budgetary rules are made for your fiscal policy during the cabinet period. I must honestly say that in 2012 it seemed unlikely to agree in a coalition on what to do with such windfalls. It's just written down anyway. I'm just finding that last year on Princess' Day wasn't the time. If it had been for this, we would have taken Rule 6 out of the closet. At the moment, I find that we are dealing with a outgoing cabinet, a cabinet that has already resigned. I am incredibly pleased that the situation that we really did not foresee in 2012 before the end of the cabinet period has occurred. This provides buffers and a basis for looking at how we handle them wisely for the coming period. It may just be that a tax reduction is very sensible, but then I want it structuralally, for the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	So you write down a rule that wasn't supposed to be implemented in 2012. That's what you're saying now. You've been promising relief since 2012. You even write a rule about it that you think "it is very unlikely that it will ever happen; a miracle must happen before that rule is taken out of the closet." Now it's time, now you can give hoo-hoo or hoo-hoo and make that promise once, but what do you say? We'll throw it at another cabinet; hopefully it'll be structural. Who do you still believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	No, Mr Van Dijck is simply not right about this. This is an appointment you make during a cabinet term. If this had been the case over the past year, we would have done so with the Millions Note. Mr Van Dijck is just having the wrong debate today. This is a debate about the current year. Mr Van Dijck's debate is also held every year. We'll do that right after the budget comes out after Princess Day. That's where the discussion belongs. Then you can arrange it in an orderly manner. Nor is it the case that you say here today 'for the first time this month we are estimating a budget surplus, so we can adjust the tax rates immediately'. That would be the consequence. Tax rates are agreed for a whole year, so that not only the Tax Administration but also taxpayers know where they stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	Still, about purchasing power. We don't know if a new cabinet is going to make the Millions note. For the time being, there is a outgoing cabinet responsible for this. Now we know the purchasing power picture from the CEP. That is not exactly balanced: three times the modal is making good progress, namely 0.8%, I say out of my mind, but the hardworking Dutchman, as Mr Van Dijck calls him, remains at about zero. The Minister for Finance and the Deputy Prime Minister have already indicated that this image should be corrected. Is Mr Harbers open to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	As far as I am concerned, this discussion is also taking place when the Millions Note comes to the Chamber. I would just like to remind you that in recent years the VVD has always looked at whether there were groups that were disproportionate in terms of purchasing power figures and that they have then repaired it in a proper way. If there are new purchasing power figures in August, September, you can assume that the VVD will look at them again. However, I am not going to make all kinds of statements here about which groups should progress in any way. Before that, you need to know what everyone's like. Mr Snels does not have these figures and I do not have them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	If I remember correctly, the government agreement agreed that a balanced purchasing power picture should be sought every year. As long as this outgoing cabinet is still active and preparing the budget, it seems to me that the coalition agreement should be the guiding principle. Does Mr Harbers exclude that 1 to 2 billion should be shifted in order to achieve that balanced purchasing power picture, as the Minister of Finance said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	This is a kind of higher form of looking at coffee, because no one knows what's going on later and whether money is needed for that. I simply note that we have had a proportional distribution of purchasing power in recent years and that the VVD has also participated in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	You also know the Central Economic Plan, the CEP. It shows that the measures already in place will mean that income development will be disproportionate and unbalanced. That needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, the figures on which we base ourselves are not yet available. The CEP is a direction, but the Cordelia will be decisive with Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	First of all, I apologise to Mr Harbers for missing the beginning of his speech. I had a double in my schedule. Of course, I am interested in the position of the VVD when it comes to the surplus on the current budget. I was told earlier that as a Chamber there is nothing more to be done if there is a surplus during meat-and-bone day in the previous year. That is a bit of a pity, but of course we still have our budgetary rights in the current budget. We'll see if the forming parties come out, but because it's widely worn in this Chamber, the expectation is that there'll be an extra investment in cops and police stations. This is important if we are to get the power back in order so that declarations are recorded and driving times not only in the city, but also in the countryside. Would the VVD feel like using the Court's budgetary law already to give the forming parties a little support in order to give the police additional money on the current budget? We don't have to wait till next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	No, I'm different in here. I have just explained this to Mr Van Dijck. First of all, I am a member of one of the forming parties and so I do not have to support myself. I do not need Mrs Leijten for that either. Secondly, I would like to point out that I think it is fantastic that we are in a situation of budgetary surplus. I think it is particularly important now that, when a government agreement is reached, agreements are reached on how we deal with it, which is sensible in this and the way in which we weigh up new expenditure and the desire for tax cuts. We can use these agreements with a new cabinet for a period of four years. I also note immediately that Mrs Leijten is taking a different position in this, because I saw a few amendments by her which aim to intervene in the current year. The downside of that is that it will then be a lot of one-off cases. The VVD prefers structural control. You will do so from the next financial year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	I find that difficult to explain. The VVD says there should be more capacity for the police. We know there are problems right now. In rural areas, declarations are no longer recorded and driving times are not reached. You can call and report a break-in, but when the police arrive, the burglar has flown. Isn't that supposed to be a thorn in the eye? It is precisely the VVD that says that security is a core task of the government. Now there's money left. Let's not support the forming parties, let's just support the policemen on the street. Let us support the mayors who call for more security and the people who need it. It is now perfectly possible to set aside 200 million and add this amount to it during the current financial year. Then there can simply be more police officers trained and certain police stations do not need to be closed down. Then we'll keep the momentum going. It cannot be explained that, almost three and a half months after the elections, we are still unable to take decisions on issues on which we all agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mrs Leijten says a lot of things that I very much agree with in terms of content. At the same time, I have said that almost everyone in the Netherlands can now reason why we need more money. I do not even think I am joking when I say that all the wishes put on the table by interest groups, branches, municipalities, regions and so on by the informant are now an amount exceeding our annual national budget. I believe that after the 8 billion that the municipality of Eindhoven wanted, we were above 250 billion. So there's only one place where you can weigh those wishes against each other. After all, you can only spend every euro once. There's a lot down there. Issues such as teacher salaries, more money for the police and more money for the Defense Department can be weighed against the amount that will be released for tax reduction. Since you can only weigh all these things against each other once, I don't feel like handing out a few things here today. In itself, this might be entirely justified, but in the future it will limit the scope for others in society who might need more money for other reasons. That really belongs to me at the formation table. There's a lot going on right now. Maybe next time, when we talk about the Millions Note again, we can do real business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u21	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u22	The VVD puts the procedures above needs in society. I'm really sorry about that. This is precisely a time when parties are talking to each other to see if they can come out for the future, but it is also a time when the Chamber can show that, in view of all the electoral programmes and the promises made in election time, it is taking a step forward. 200 million is needed just to fix what is still coming. That's not even an extra investment. If the VVD does not want to take that space itself, it would be good if it would not only feel that space itself, but would also create it for the forming parties. Then we can show the Netherlands that we do not lock ourselves in boxes and then silence the rest of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u23	I have explained why I do not agree with a large part of Mrs Leijten's speech, but recognize a number of substantive wishes. I explained where they'll be weighed later. I agree with Mr Van Dijck that we are not yet here. There is still a great deal of work to be done on various subjects. One example I want to highlight is that everyone is suddenly talking about higher wages; business must offer higher wages. I would be surprised if there were no speakers to discuss this later. The Minister also replied that he called on the social partners to increase wages in sectors where this is possible. And yes, the VVD understands that on the one hand, but on the other hand we still understand at the VVD the shudder of employers to pull the wallet large-scale. For this, you should also look at the financial risks that employers are still running, for example with the payment of wages in the event of illness and the Work and Security Act. Furthermore, the trade union movement would perhaps do well not to devote all the pay space to matters such as a third year of WW, but also to think about allowing that space to benefit more from a real payout over the full breadth of the workforce. It is not that nothing is being done at the moment. The cabinet already honours a number of things that really need to be resolved at the moment. Sometimes this is not even a big expenditure, but it is a wish that we, and I suspect millions of people, have been taken from the heart. I mention, for example, the extra use of the Marchaussee at Schiphol Airport. It should provide relief for hundreds of thousands of Dutch people on their way to their holidays, who can hopefully take the horde of Schiphol a little faster and safer. A special intensification, i.e. an increase in expenditure, is formed by the additional funds for nursing care. It is not that we would not want it, quite the contrary. It is well known that it was also in our election programme. This one came to the Chamber quite suddenly; suddenly she was there. Sometimes we've seen that differently in these big things. Based on current insights, 2.1 billion euros are needed for the implementation of the new quality framework for nursing care. In anticipation of the new cabinet, this year this cabinet will release 200 million euros for nursing care. This now runs through the quality framework and to the great surprise of the Chamber it was suddenly arranged through the Zorginstituut. For the VVD, it is still essential that this amount is not simply transferred to the sector, but that it is or may be subject to conditions. Such a condition could, for example, be that institutions provide insight into their quality plan for what they need extra money for and why something cannot be done with existing resources, so that politics can then see what has become of it in the quality report. This would also make it possible for healthcare offices to send in. In short, the VVD wants the best performing institutions to set the standard and that money should not be a problem after that; the rest of us are getting involved in this. How does the Minister look at this and how does the Minister look at the room for manoeuvre that politics should have in it? One of the estimates that has been greatly increased in relation to the Millions Note is inflation: in the Millions Note it was still half a percent, in this Spring Note it is 1.6%. This is contrary to recent reports that inflation is falling in Europe. In the Netherlands it is rising, in Europe it is falling. What does the Minister expect in the Netherlands in this area for the near future? It was just as good with inflation, because with the 1.6% you are almost at the 2% of the ECB. This is particularly good news for all those who, like me, are waiting for the day when the ECB will reduce its large monetary policy and low interest rates. Next thing you know, it's gonna get harder and we're still in the trap of quantitative expansion, the QE trap, which I don't hope. How does the Minister view this? And now maybe a little philosophical question. I can see that there is a debate on this inflation target of the ECB, that 2% target, and on whether, given the past few decades and the time ahead, it is still in line with the characteristics of today's economy. How does the Minister view this? I'm gonna end up where I started. The coming years require a special effort to show everyone that things are getting better. The greatly improved public finances finally provide a good buffer for this, although all the wishes will never be met at the same time. No doubt there will still be many wishes coming along today, whether covered or not and whether or not structural, but, as I said, these considerations should not be made in this Spring paper or in the implementation of the 2017 budget, a year that is now halfway through, but above all in the government agreement of the new cabinet. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u24	I found Mr Harbers' excellent words: now that things are improving economically, everyone must benefit in the years to come. Does that mean that, as far as the VVD is concerned, low and middle incomes, pensioners and beneficiaries should also benefit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u25	Yes. We say that everyone must be able to see for themselves that the crisis is over. People can see this in many ways: in their purchasing power, in what they can spend, or in the opportunities of people who do not yet have a job to get back to work. For this you also have to look at the location climate and the possibilities to get even more activity from abroad to the Netherlands. The quality of nursing care must therefore be taken into account. So there are a thousand and a manners. I could tell everyone in the Netherlands how to see it, and that is very often in a different way than just extra money. Before Mr Nijboer came in, I argued that in recent years the VVD could be talked about a proportional distribution of purchasing power. Mr Nijboer and I were there. I think we have kept our word. So I would say: wait and see how we are going to deal with this properly in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u26	That's a little too easy for me, because I know how difficult this has been from time to time. In all the calculations you can see that low incomes are being put at a disadvantage and that pensioners are not coming along. So if you say that everyone should benefit, which by the way was also a big slogan of the VVD in the election, I wonder if you are actually going to deliver on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u27	That is what we are trying to do. That is precisely the balance to be struck in a new coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u28	I welcome the support of other spokesmen. In fact, it is too scandalous for words to put a retired person in the CEP, who is just a month old, in contempt and at the same time proclaim that you have collected 8 billion more in taxes and that everything is going so well in the Netherlands. But you're just putting retired people's purchasing power in the shit! Mr Harbers then says: we are going to negotiate now and then perhaps in 2018 we will have good news for these pensioners. This is the spring note. We can do business today. Today we can adjust things. The Spring's note is for the mid-term review. Why doesn't Mr. Harbers want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u29	Firstly, Mr Van Dijck makes a mistake of thinking by saying that we, the Chamber or the Cabinet, have put a group in the minority in the CEP. In the CEP it is simply calculated how this year is going to come about. When we discussed the budget last autumn, we made political agreements on it. Then the cabinet and the chamber went over it. I note that at that time we agreed on a balanced distribution of purchasing power. I stand by my point of view: these are just the things that you want to take care of in a structural way. The budget surplus provides room for this. However, the VVD prefers to make arrangements about the next four years than now, on one of the last days before the summer holidays, to do a quick one. So you're sure there's very few things you can think of that you can think of now. What is it today? July 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, July 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May 5th, May I would prefer to make an integral assessment of the budget in the near future, in order to get a balanced picture for all groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u30	If that balanced picture that you agreed to is not balanced at the first mid-term review, which we are discussing today, you need to fix it. That's what the Spring Note is for. Otherwise we won't have to debate today. Then we can say: okay, that was it with the budget and then there is the annual accounts. Then I agree with Mrs Leijten who said that we had a windfall but that there is nothing we can do with that now. That's all after. Then why are we evaluating intermediate things, adjusting them and you name it? You're putting a retired in the minus! Then the money flies against the plinths of this Minister of Finance. You can't explain that, can you? You will say: wait and see, maybe in 2018 we will have a plus for the pensioners. In this way, you are destroying the credibility of politics and the VVD in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u31	I think there are also a lot of people who understand that if you have one moment in the four years to weigh everything against each other, you use that moment. I note that it is not entirely pointless what we are doing here today, because where it is really necessary, there is also money. The same pensioners that Mr Van Dijck is calling for, I understand that too, will also benefit from the addition of money for nursing care, should they eventually have to resort to it. So we're already doing a few things. For the rest, as far as I am concerned, it will come to a new coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u32	This is a wrong little bridge, I think. We are talking about the purchasing power of the working Dutchman and the no longer working Dutchman, to use a different term. Then you should not come up with another major problem. I share with you that this is the case, namely care for the elderly. We're talking about purchasing power right now. I agree with Van Dijck and Nijboer, who have referred to the figures in the CEP, which shows that only pensioners are in the minority. Even the benefit recipients aren't in trouble. According to these figures, there is a 1% difference between workers and pensioners in 2017 and 2018. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u33	If Mr Van Rooijen agrees with the questions that have been asked before, perhaps I can join my previous answers for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u34	I'm not gonna talk to you about that bridge. You were talking about purchasing power. I've listened to all that very well. I'll come back to that later. That's no surprise for you. Now, however, you are going to associate the purchasing power loss of the elderly, if not properly talking, with care for the elderly, by saying that care for the elderly is well taken care of. That is a completely different subject. We are very concerned about that, too. Would you care to comment on this? These things have nothing to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u35	No, that is correct, but that was an answer to another question, namely Mr Van Dijck's question which we are doing here today and whether we can adjust something. I have found that we can certainly adjust things, but for purchasing power I make a different assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u36	So you think that there should and can be no adjustment for purchasing power? I think we can do that. That is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u37	It's possible, but I don't choose it right now. I prefer to do this in a good and structural way and weigh all the groups in it. That's what you do in a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u38	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Spring Note, the update of the current financial year. It is usually rather poor in policy, but it is striking that this outgoing cabinet presents a spring note that is remarkably politically rich. Let us first look at the economic picture. I simply agree with the previous speakers on this. Economic growth is higher than expected and unemployment is falling much faster. I remember that, as one of the few things that we agreed on in the Millions Note, the estimate that unemployment would not fall in itself was already on the very conservative side, but unemployment is indeed falling. This is also to be expected with the current high growth rate. We are also getting some less signals, such as rising inflation. There is a great difference of opinion, as I have already noticed in the Chamber, about how you want to describe tax revenues of the Empire that are rising by many billions. Additional tax revenues really come from the wallet of citizens, who therefore feel that this is a burden increase. You have to deal with that very carefully. I notice that a number of colleagues are burning up the money to be able to spend it, and that these colleagues generally do not run at the same speed to the interrupting microphone when there is any shortage of time to see how to get rid of it. Back to the policy-rich spring note. That's special with a missionary cabinet. We've seen Millions of notes with less spending. The CDA Group supports a number of things, such as the removal of the household allowance, which we wholeheartedly support, and the removal of the discount on monuments, but this leads to a somewhat loose budgetary discipline. Failures in budgetary expenditure are largely offset by higher revenue. Is there any separation between revenue and expenditure at all? The salmon standard has already been mentioned here. In addition, a deficit is covered, partly with incomprehensible cash slides. For example, the CDA Group does not fully understand the cash slide that takes place on police pensions for more than 100 million. Perhaps an explanation can be given, because it seems a bit like putting forward a problem when you take money out of the police pension reservation. Apart from the fine spending, a number of corpses are coming out of the closet, such as 300 million in the context of the Wlz by a judicial decision. Quality frameworks do indeed lead to much better care, but we were not previously told that this costs 2 billion, where 435 million is now covered by the current budget. The Minister of OCW has never filled in hundreds of millions of her statement and the Netherlands Bank will not pay dividends for a long time due to the ECB policy that my VVD colleague has already pointed out. Until a number of years ago, this was about EUR 1 billion a year. We simply miss out on this because of the broad ECB policy and buy-back programmes. Those are the setbacks we know, but there are also risks. In the coming years, the tax administration's budget will fall by 600 million, from 3.1 billion now to 2.5 billion later. Is this justified and feasible, so I ask the cabinet, or is this simply pushing forward a new problem to the next cabinet, which means that in a year or two we will find ourselves once again facing an impossible task? So is this realistic? The Brexit can also cost us a lot of money. We share the government's commitment, but of course it is by no means guaranteed that the Brexit will not allow us to carry on in the pouch. Those are pretty tough setbacks. And don't forget: economic growth is good today, but if it turns around, tax revenues that are now coming in will just turn into major setbacks in the tax cuts. That is why we are concerned that the Minister of Finance is no longer sitting on the money. Because the surplus and also the structural surplus that appeared to be there a few months ago disappear like snow for the sun. The Minister is threatening to leave the cabinet even if there will be no additional expenditure in the draft budget. Is that right? Sometimes I don't know who ate when it was said, so I'm asking him now as Minister of Finance. Does this Minister of Finance step up as the prime minister of finance because there is not enough extra money being spent? That would be a unique thing in itself, whereas the Minister's discipline has been so badly handled in the Education budget that there is still a shortage of hundreds of millions, but that is still being pushed forward. By the way, we understand the focus of the PvdA executives on education, but do they also have a focus on defense where peanuts are shot or where soldiers who came back have an AOW hole and sometimes fell under welfare level, or sustainability? When we talk about the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, I would just like to point out that his Work and Security Act is so dysfunctional that the social partners are already thinking about how to restore it, as are the people at the negotiating table. And then we are not talking about the legislation that had to fight false self-employment and all kinds of horrible constructions, but where, after two and a half years, zero fines have been paid. I'm gonna say it again: zero fines. This while this was the Minister's entire policy. But instead of solving his own problems, he is going to interfere with a completely different budget because it might look good. What is the purpose of the tandem of Minister Asscher and Minister Dijsselbloem? I'd like a comprehensive answer to that. Then I'll get to the taxes. The tax administration's policy on fines fell apart last year. The government has had a slap on the wrist for the tax on motor vehicles. More than a million fines per year were issued for people who sometimes paid a day late; they then had to pay €147 for sometimes a €29 payment that was just a little too late. We understand that the judge has reversed this, but the policy of fines is unfair in many respects. Many taxpayers feel that way. If you are owed something by the Tax Administration, it sometimes takes months for you to get an answer or a refund, but if you are a day late then you hang on the tallest tree. Let me give you another example: the default fines for late payment by notorious defaulters. So, what's going on? If you pay in instalments, you'll already find yourself a notorious dispayer if you're late in payment in due course. You get a fine, but if you're behind every month, you get a new fine every month. That means people get pushed over the edge very quickly. The Court did not consider this policy of fines to be in line with parliamentary history. Of course it is, because it means that people who are a little behind are pushed completely into debt restructuring. Can the Minister confirm that the court has done so and whether the penalty policy is now being adjusted? Of course, notorious defaulters should always be fined, but don't say that notorious default payment is one or two late payments and that it applies for every term, because if you're in trouble then you'll fall over the edge, especially if you're owed money from the Tax Office and you don't get it. Then I'll join the police. That is the incomprehensible cash drawer that I have already mentioned and which I would like to have a comment on later. We are wondering whether there is good accountability for police spending. We do not understand why it is not as tight as the control of defence expenditure. The President of the General Court is also calling the bell on this. The Chamber has no idea whether the priorities set by the minister for the police are being met, and the Court of Auditors has, as we know, been calling the bell to red cards. This point is very important, because it has been shown that the ICT projects have gone very badly with the Dutch police. An independent audit shows that only 45% of the implementation plan was reached by the end of 2017. This ICT Review Board speaks of a serious business risk. And the systems go down there once in a while. Every year we spend billions on the police and we want to be able to monitor the effectiveness of spending. We can do that at the state's attorney's office and at the COA. Then why can't we get to the police? Is the Minister prepared to lay down in law the possibilities for police control in the same way as the D.A. and the D.O.D.? I then have some technical questions about the setbacks at the Wlz and the nursing homes. There is a setback of 300 million in the Wlz on a budget for a budget item with less than 100 million on it. So that's a 300% overrun. The factual answers 104 and 105 show that these are three specific groups of care seekers. First of all, I want to know how many people per group are involved and how such a total budget can now quadruple at once. Then there is the question of how this increase in Wlz relates to the amounts released from the 2017 budget of VWS or transferred from the Municipal Fund under the Wmo. How exactly did these amounts come about? They're pretty small amounts. Then about the nursing homes themselves. I do not quite follow the budgetary approach. Earlier, the government released 100 million from a windfall on the Wlz. Then there was another windfall. In the spring note we read that there is a fallout of 300 million on the Wlz. And in the spring note there is a setback of over 200 million within the Budgetary Framework Care, which includes the Wlz and the Health Insurance Act. Now the government covers this in itself desired additional expenses for the nursing homes from a sum of windfalls within the Budgetary Framework Care. In short, on 1 July, the government thinks it has hundreds of millions of setbacks within its care to see all the windfalls a month later and put them back on the line for extra spending. How are we supposed to make chocolate out of this and how can we check that the government adheres to its own budget? Can the Minister clarify this, and can he promise that he will give the Millions Note an insight into all the coincidences and disappointments in the care from the last Millions Note, so that we know what the state of affairs is? That way, as a Chamber, we can see what is happening. Finally. This debate is about many billions. We are talking about billions in expenditure, but we are also talking about billions in risk. It's about taxpayers' money. This requires the responsibility of politics, in particular of those who are currently at the controls. It is important that those potential setbacks and corpses from the closet are well controlled. It is important that the ministers get to work on it, and not just to come up with new policies when they prefer to leave the old problems in the closet. I invite the government if there are any other problems that have not been identified, perhaps you can take another look around the Ministry of Security and Justice and inform the Chamber without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u39	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr. Chairman. It is going to be a bit of a different approach to the approach that Mr Omtzig has chosen. The Netherlands is getting better economically. This is reflected in economic growth, which is gradually reflected in the investments that have been made for many years, and this is reflected in the budget, which, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, is very much in the wind. I would like to point out a billion dollars under the expenditure framework, which has just been realised this year under this cabinet. And that's what you can see from the shortage. This is for the first time under 60%, which was not yet foreseen for this moment. I just heard a tone with "looks out of the closet" and I read here and there in a newspaper that it's all so disappointing when it comes to the amount of space that's extra, that it's all not neatly left behind and that we're having such a hard time. I can't place that at all, and I think it's misplaced. I would like to point out the circumstances that this cabinet faced four years ago: a huge financial and economic crisis and huge budget deficits. It has run a very difficult program, but it was necessary at that time. If you look at the budget now, I really still have social needs and concerns, and I think it really is crocodile tears when people say: oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I can't place that. I think that's misplaced, too. Perhaps the most important thing, namely unemployment which is falling so quickly, is much faster than anticipated. While unemployment was projected to fall, it is likely to fall by 2 percentage points this year. That's almost 200,000 jobs. That's immense. That's really good. What remains is the purchasing power. The PvdA Group is concerned about this, even in the run-up to the budget. Mr Harbers is right to say that we are not deciding on purchasing power today, but it will be decided internally in August. On the third Tuesday of September, the budget will then be sent to the House of Representatives. It is important that, as is often the case with economic growth, especially when things are getting better and better, the lusts do not end up with the people who are already well, while those who are low or middle-income, or people who are retired or who have a benefit get nothing of it. That is inexhaustible to us, whether we are in opposition or in a missionary cabinet. We are not going to see that, but that is an important starting point for the coming period, especially now that the economic situation is so good and the budget is tidy. We must also be a fair society. Everyone has to be able to come with us. I come to the education budget, also a major theme. For two reasons, there is still an amount of hundreds of millions of ecus, which is exactly how high the amount is, depends a little on the annual amount.... ready to be filled in. It's about 300 to 400 million. This is partly due to higher numbers of pupils. That's good, because more people go to school. We must be happy about that, because that is what we are reaping from in the future. This is partly due to an assignment from the Chamber to the cabinet last autumn. We did not want to see, as is normally the case in the budget, if there were any setbacks, cuts in education or lower funding for primary schools. That was an assignment from the Chamber. We'll see them now. Then you can say, "Oh, oh, I'm sorry. But it was an assignment from the Chamber. I'm glad the cabinet keeps to that. In fact, I hope that, under the new coalition agreement, substantial investment in education will also be made and that additional funding will be made available. This applies both to teachers' salaries and to investments in MBO as well as to more time for pupils and less work pressure. It would be incredibly good if this were to come out of the coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u41	I would like to agree with Mr Nijboer, but I believe that we are investing a great many times in our programme in this respect. However, that is up to the new cabinet. This year's Pechtold motion is being carried out. Mr Nijboer is right about that. There are no cuts in education, but what has surprised me is that the PvdA has signed the Spring Paper, while next year it will save 467 million on education. Why isn't that austerity just taken off the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u42	We are now being cut back, but even in the most difficult economic times we have not cut back on education. We weren't planning on that. We even invested extra, including with the help of D66, Christian Union and the SGP. We occasionally have a high-level discussion in the cabinet, at least that is what I read in order to give the primary school teachers something to add, and then Mr Van Weyenberg is going to put this position here. I'm turning it the other way around. I hope that the forming parties will not go over that. I trust that, too. Nor will I appeal to D66 that they intend to cut back on education, because that is nonsense to me. The PvdA will never do that either, but we'll be lubricated by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u43	That cut in education was in the coalition agreement, but I know that since the elections Mr Nijboer has been somewhat selective. However, let us fight together for education. I'd be happy to do that with Mr Nijboer. I would have liked to have done that at the formation table, but now back to the facts. I read nice plans from the PvdA, also from group chairman Asscher, to invest, but Deputy Prime Minister Asscher has supported and signed the Spring Paper with a task to be completed, amounting to 467 million for education. Mr Nijboer can shake no as hard as he likes, but that is just in the spring note. My question remains: I have not yet had an answer to why the PvdA wants to save 467 million on education next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u44	This is hilarious, isn't it? The examination of the budget shall establish the new budgetary frameworks. It will then determine how much money the upcoming cabinet will spend from 2018, within the total expenditure, on education and on care. There's extra room. We have more than 7 billion, almost 8 billion, in revenue losses. There is 1 billion space under the frameworks. There is still economic growth. You can tell yourself how to use it. For that, you are in the formation; we are not in the formation this time. With the PvdA in the cabinet, it is unthinkable that there should be savings in education. We have shown this in recent years, even when it was much more difficult than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u45	I'll leave history for what it is. In any case, I am pleased that the cuts have been avoided. The essence remains that the spring note says: we do not go to the household allowance in the AOW. That task, which has not yet been completed, is off the table. Happy, good work! I'll tell Mr. Nijboer. The same applies to the austerity of monuments. The cabinet listened to the Chamber on that point. We've been hard on that together. Fantastic, I say to Mr Nijboer. The austerity on education is off the table. That was also an open task. But one open mission remained for next year: 500 million for education. Mr Nijboer can shake 'no' hard, but I find it disappointing that the 500 million cut is still in the books.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u46	I think it's really bullshit. The spring note is about this year. In the next year's budget, it is up to the forming parties. If we're still there, we'll do it. If the signature of the PvdA is underneath, additional investment in education will be made. You'd better assume that. In particular, this applies to the salaries of primary school teachers. I don't think there's much clarity about that anymore. I come to another issue in education, which is also important, namely education deficit policy. It is not about the big money that we have just talked about, but about 40 million, which was prevented last year. Mostly in larger cities, but also in rural areas, there is a lack of education. Sometimes children have language retardation. The question to the cabinet is, how does it deal with that? The PvdA attaches great importance to this money, precisely to support children who are lagging behind in education and not to cut back on it. I'm asking the Cabinet how it sees this. It is not about this year, because we have already arranged it for this year; we did so last year. It is an important subject for 2018. One thing that is happening quickly is the 10 million for culture, which we have also arranged for a year. I saw an amendment on that. I thought a motion would be more appropriate, because an amendment is more of a budget issue. I do not care how practical things are, but I saw that the SP has tabled an amendment on this. It's about the performing arts. It is not about huge amounts, but they are important for companies. They need to know at some point that the money is there, or else they're gonna fire people. How does the cabinet view this? I come to the budget of Security and Justice. You can see that, on its own, it is somewhat conclusive, but we are a little concerned about how that happens. The Minister's laughing about it. A one-off skimming of agencies' own funds has now been deployed. I understand the pressure from the Treasury on Security and Justice to solve their own problems, because that department is not known for its great financial management. In fact, we are very concerned about that. How long is this going to last and is it really getting better? The debate on this has been going on for one and a half or two years. This also applies to the Ministry of Defence. With V and J, the art and flying has taken on great forms, I think. I will conclude with the subject of nursing homes, something else that we have talked about quite intensively over the last few months. Yesterday it became clear that the cabinet is making more than 400 million extra available to improve the quality of nursing homes. That is a very good thing. This Millions note also contains additional funds for this purpose. It is a very good thing, especially since the whole Chamber, which is missionary, has said that the quality of nursing homes needs to be raised. I have pointed this out on previous occasions in budgetary debates. I am glad that we are now in a position not only to arrange 100 million for this year last year, but to add another 100 million to the Spring Note. Next year there will even be 435 million more, so that thousands of people, thousands of extra hands, will come to the bed. That is possible if you pursue sound budgetary policies. Then there is room for such socially desirable investments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u47	Still, a question about the nursing home care. 200 million is in the Spring Note: 100 million wide and 100 million as a subsidy for the major bottlenecks. What does Mr Nijboer think is the effect of the 100 million on the quality of nursing home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u48	Well, if you want to fully meet the standards that the Chamber supports, then more than 2 billion is needed, but you won't get put away in one year. There aren't even that many people to go straight to work in nursing homes. You build it up step by step. It's 200 million this year, next year it's 435 million. You're already at 20%, and I think it's a pretty good step for a missionary cabinet. This can really improve the quality of care, but I agree with GroenLinks that more is needed in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u49	I'm not interested in the future. The fact that there is 435 million in the 2018 budget is a first step towards more than 2 billion in the end. However, the Labour Party, with a number of other parties, felt that there should also be a strong impetus this year, especially now that we have the quality framework, which sets out what the legally binding quality standards should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u51	What is 100 million extra to improving quality in 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u52	It's $200 million. And $400 million next year. In a year and a half you've already realized 20% of what might be needed. You don't get that 2 billion thrown away in two or three years. I really think that there is considerable investment in care for the elderly, especially now that this cabinet is decommissioned, but I agree with you, Mr Snels, that more needs to be done in the future. I find thousands of nurses there in the fairly short term half a year is not a long term, 2018 starts already on January 1st really a big step. You shouldn't miss that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u53	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u54	I do not miss the commitment of 2018. What I'm a little afraid of is that 2017 is a lost year for nursing home care. Those additional 100 million dollars, and then I will not look at the 100 million dollars of the specific scheme, if you look at the budgetary system, just correct wages and prices. There is no nursing home that can invest extra in improving quality in 2017. All nursing homes will have to wait until 2018 and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u55	I don't understand that at all, because there's just 200 million going to nursing homes this year, and of that they can invest in their staff. They can also give raises, that's good. We think everyone should be paid properly. And next year, January 1st, over half a year from now, there will even be twice as much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u56	The problem is that the quality framework is so vague that it does not automatically lead to additional hands. We have seen before that an intensification of additional resources, then it was still in the AWBZ, led to more equity of institutions, but not to additional people at the bed or to courses for people. How exactly are we going to prevent that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u57	I very much agree with this. The former Spokesman's concern of the SP and the current Spokesman's concern of the PvdA is very much in agreement that you should not just give 200 million or even 2 billion to a sector, without knowing that it will end up where it should be. We haven't figured that out either. Of course, there's got to be a decent plan underneath how you're gonna do that. That should be further developed by a new cabinet. But these additional resources are also subject to conditions. Mr Snels felt that this was a bit harsh, I understood him implicitly, but there are conditions attached to it. It should not land in bureaucracy or in such things, but I very much agree with you, Mrs Leijten, that if you invest so heavily, it must be done in a sensible way and that it will take a little more than just a bunch of money without conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u58	Mr President, I didn't actually step forward in front of the nursing homes, but well, you know that's in my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u59	It's in your genes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u60	What the heart is full of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u61	I've been fighting austerity for years, and now that there's investment, I'm fucking out of there! However, we will be very careful to ensure that the money ends up well and that it actually goes into extra people rather than bureaucracy, wealth or expensive buildings. I actually wanted to ask a question about teachers' salaries. We've received rather double signals from missionary directors. One says: if this is not in the budget, I will not sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u62	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u63	And the other says: yes, but extra money for salaries is not necessary at all. What exactly is the position of the Labour Party at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u64	If the PvdA is in the coalition, additional resources for primary school teachers will have to be included. Things are going on in the country. Collective agreements must also be concluded. We also believe that teachers deserve sufficient appreciation. And we think that they are not getting that appreciation at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u65	I wholeheartedly support that plea. The SP also wants to introduce the amendment to this budget, which is why we are taking the first step. I therefore urge the Labour Party to support this. But I would like to point out that it is crazy that Minister and party leader Asscher says that he will not sign the budget if this is not settled, while Demissionary Minister for Education Mrs Bussemaker says: I do not need any extra money at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u66	I didn't hear her say that last thing. But last week there was a very long debate on education. That's where I think this is all over. I have not been able to follow everything, because occasionally I do a debate myself. But the position of the PvdA executives is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u67	I think it's a good thing today to clarify the position of the PvdA. Last week there was a long debate. This was precisely about the position of the teachers and about extra money for the strengthening of their salaries. The day before that debate, Mr Asscher said: I do not sign the budget if this is not settled. He's party leader and deputy prime minister, although he's a missionary. A day later, the outgoing Minister of Education said: I don't need any extra money. But today we will hear the final verdict here: missionary cabinet or no missionary cabinet, the Labour Party finds: there will be extra money for education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u68	And for elementary school teachers in particular. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u69	I'm gonna take a crack at you, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u70	Mr Van Dijck, you're always hitting me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u71	... in the remark that it is not going to happen to the PvdA that pensioners are in a bad position and that the people on a small salary, to the morale, are in a bad position. They were promised 0.9%. The elderly were promised 0.7% increase in purchasing power in September, when the Millions Note was published. But now it turns out to be lovers. I do not know whether Mr Nijboer has followed the discussion I just had with the VVD spokesperson. Does Mr Nijboer not think that we should now, in the interim, fix this purchasing power for at least those groups of pensioners? After all, we now know that there is a surplus and that the Minister of Finance has unexpectedly raised 8 billion additional tax revenues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u72	I really think you're making purchasing power policy for the next year, given all the uncertainties you see coming. I have just given a clear starting point of the PvdA. More generally, you can see that the highest incomes are most likely to improve in economic good times. Of course, we don't have the numbers yet, but you can feel that on your clogs. Policies are therefore needed to adjust this and to allow the elderly, benefit recipients and those on low or middle incomes to benefit. The PvdA Group is in favour of this. We're not gonna do that all of a sudden at the Spring Bill. I do know that the PVV always has solutions for this, for example reducing VAT by 3% and sister and so on, but we do not participate in such politics. The PvdA is a serious political party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u73	So in September, the PvdA promises a 1% increase in purchasing power throughout the Netherlands. Now it's June. Turns out what? Everything's okay. All signals are green. So things are going great in the Netherlands. 8 billion additional taxes will be collected. From a shortage, we suddenly go to a surplus. Public finances are better than ever before. But what does Mr Nijboer say to all those older people and all those people he promised 1% increase in purchasing power in September? He says to them: wait a year and a half, and maybe another cabinet will fix it. Does Mr Nijboer mean that we are not going to experience this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u74	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u75	Are those your words from "we're not going to see this"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u76	January 1st is in six months. Halfway through the year, it is another idea from the PVV's top hat, but we are not in favour of it. What do you want? In August tax rates of so much and then from September a different rate, and that will be carried out nicely with the Tax Administration as it stands now? That's not serious, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u77	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u78	In my view, there are other ways of fixing purchasing power than just tax rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u79	Yes, fees, but you're not so much in favour of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u80	I'll leave that in the middle. I refer to your words: this is not what we are going to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u82	Then you sit on your hands and wait for another cabinet to fix it, because you say now, while the PvdA is still on the missionary buttons: I'm not going through this. Those are empty words. I think you should take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u83	Well, I wasn't going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u84	Mr. Chairman. At first sight, there is a neat spring note in front of it today. At least it's a spring note with a lot of good news, especially when you think about what deep crisis we've been coming from in recent years. The budget is in order and we are heading for a budget surplus. The government debt is falling rapidly. And perhaps the most important thing: the economy is growing, more and more people are finding a job and unemployment is falling rapidly. This favourable development, including in the budget, allows the Cabinet to remove a number of still outstanding targets from the Spring paper. The household allowance in the AOW has long been on the table, but fortunately it is now definitely off the table. This also applies to the cuts in the maintenance of monuments which the entire Chamber did not clean up, which the cabinet suddenly surprised us with last year. People who guard our cultural heritage would suddenly be punished for that. The monument deduction remains and that is good news; compliments for the cabinet. Perhaps the most extraordinary thing was that last year we were going to cut back on supporting education. At a time when we all know that education is becoming increasingly important and that you have to learn for a lifetime, that was, of course, a rather special measure. This measure is also being withdrawn from the table with this Spring paper. The D66 Group is extremely content with that. Thus, it all seems to be in order and headlines the Minister's press release that the budget surplus would be no less than 1.3% in 2021. Fantastic news! Yes, the budget is in order, and yes, that also offers opportunities for the future, but there are a few catchwords in this form of accounting. We didn't like that much, did we? It starts with long-term care. In my view, the whole Chamber agrees that there was indeed a need for an investment there. The Spring Note states that we need to invest 2.1 billion in the care of the elderly in 2021. That's in the text of the Spring Note. It even says that this is legally mandatory, but we do not find this investment in the multiannual tables. Can the Minister confirm that if you are going to spend that 2.1 billion, the surplus in 2021 is not 1.3% but 1%? I just think it's good to have that clear. It is also extremely good that it is already apparent that 435 million will be invested next year, but, as everyone here says, this will come to an end. That must also be because of the quality framework. You would actually like to see that in the multi-annual picture presented by the Minister. Why doesn't he? What I still find remarkable and I would like to dwell on is that Mr Omtzigt did the same as Mr Omtzigt is the way in which this 2.1 billion was actually given a legal basis at some point. That is a large amount of money, and we are talking here about fractions of this order of magnitude. The rules of the Healthcare Institute make this legally binding, even for the coming years, according to the government, due to the quality framework long-term care. But when the quality framework was established, why wasn't it just clearly communicated that it needed 2.1 billion? I don't think it would have been weird if we in the Chamber had known that. What am I saying? I think it wouldn't have been weird if the finance minister had known. I have a strong impression that the Minister was also not involved in this legal obligation of more than EUR 2 billion. Can the Minister confirm that? The law is the law and these are the rules. It is well-spent money, but was it intended that the Minister of Finance would be put on the Quality Framework for an accomplished fact that the Healthcare Institute would be able to take this kind of radical decisions independently, without the test of Cabinet or Chamber? I see Mrs Leijten standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u85	Me too. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u86	In my opinion, the Chamber was fully informed when it asked not only the Healthcare Institute for that test, but also when it immediately made that Quality Framework legally binding. In fact, that's what we've been chasing the Secretary of State, I think, for three years, including the VVD and including D66. The problem now is that there is a Quality Framework which does not necessarily mean that extra money actually goes into staff. It is so vaguely written that a care institution can also get rid of the fact that the occupation should be in order, even though it may not be. What does the D66 Group think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u87	I can imagine that we will have our healthcare colleagues have a very detailed debate on this care framework. I am very aware that Mrs Leijten brings up-to-date knowledge and information on this point. I would like to say in general terms that if you are going to spend that money, you are going to guarantee it. I have also heard Mr Harbers ask for it and that the money is being used for what we have reserved it for, and that is quality. Staff are an essential part of this. I therefore believe that I share Mrs Leijten's concern. The question of how exactly we are going to do that will also be raised in the new cabinet, because more is needed than is currently being made available by the cabinet. However, if that money is left on the shelf or in management salaries, you will find D66 on your side to oppose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u88	In my opinion, it would be no harm to send the signal to this Minister of Finance now, you can tell the forming parties that the Quality Framework currently in place says that there must be quality and that it is clear that there is really only one way to achieve that quality, namely with sufficient staff. It would then be logical for the Quality Framework to simply state what sufficient staff is. You can say what the quality should be, but if you don't say it's in people, I know where it's going. I've known the care longer than today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u89	Then let us ensure that Mrs Leijten's fear does not become a reality. I would also like to say that, in addition to staff, training of staff, for example, is very important. So there are more important things than just salaries and numbers. Qualified staff is also important. The search for qualified personnel and their training is still a great challenge. I know that Mrs Leijten agrees with me. The question I am asking now is how it now translates into the Spring Note, which states: we must legally commit 2.1 billion. That raises a lot of questions about how you make sure that money is used effectively. However, it also raises the question of why this amount is not reflected in the Minister's multiannual figures. The wording that it is now apparent that the Quality Framework is not legally binding at the time of the Spring Note, raises questions about how we organised that decision. Mr. Chairman. If we look further, we can see that not only the healthcare expenditure raises questions, but that there is also a body in the closet when it comes to the education budget. I noticed that Mr Nijboer was a bit excited about that, but unfortunately the facts are no different. Indeed, in 2017 a solution was found for the austerity in education that the cabinet came up with last year. I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister, because Mr Nijboer denied that last year there was simply a mandate in the OCW budget. It still had to be filled in, but it was in there. Please confirm. That point has gotten bigger, because there is also a setback in the student estimate. That's a bit of a setback, because it's okay if more people go to school, but that also costs money. Can the Minister indicate that Mr Nijboer does not seem to believe that there is still a gap in this spring note in the OCW budget of 467 million to be completed? According to Mr Nijboer, this is not the case, but I think the Minister can confirm that it is and that it is, therefore, about half of the cabinet's choice last year with Princess Day to book a mission. That's too bad. Earlier we had seen that this cabinet did not actually spend an extra penny on education in the coalition agreement. For years, there was a zero line for teachers and teachers. In the negotiations with the cabinet, we, as D66, together with the Christian Union and the SGP, had to fight hard to get an extra half a billion euros a year for education. What do we see now? That the cabinet actually leaves a gap in its last budget for next year of 467 million on the OCW budget. I have two more questions for the Minister. If you solve all those problems and targets that are still open, luckily the monuments, the education allowance and the household care fine are solved why wasn't this solved in the spring note? Does the Minister think that he is leaving things tidy with another open mandate on that 467 million budget? Is that buried responsibly? I do not understand PvdA leader Asscher who is threatening to sign the budget here in the Chamber if there is no money for higher teacher salaries, while he, as Deputy Prime Minister Asscher in the Trêveszaal, is signing a spring note with almost half a billion in savings in education for next year. That's way out of my league. In the General Reviews, the whole Chamber said that the cuts should not be at the expense of the schools. In reply to written questions, the Minister indicated that it was not possible to cover this task within the OCW budget without affecting the cost of education. Then the only logical conclusion is that the target should now be removed? The coverage must come from outside the OCW budget. That also happened on other subjects, so why not here? What's with the unpaid bill? How strong is the OCW budget? If the CPB makes an estimate of the budget deficit, what is the target for education? I would like to receive a clear answer from the Minister. The same applies, as far as I am concerned, to the 2.1 billion for long-term care. This seems to me in the closet at OCW to be a stain on the minister's political legacy, but I would like to conclude by saying that the Minister has conducted responsible budgetary policy. I note that parties who are now leading the way to spending money did not really lead the way when the budget had to be put in order. If we had followed their plans then, there would have been no surplus today, but a large budget deficit. The Minister and his party deserve a compliment for not crying with the wolves. I hope that we will be able to count on that in the years to come. Finally, I would like to return to a point raised in the debate on responsibility, namely the budget of the General Court of Auditors. The Minister said that he would look with the Court of Auditors at the tasks of the Court of Auditors and at whether the financial resources of the Court of Auditors are sufficient to carry out those tasks and to support and strengthen the Chamber and the Cabinet. I wonder what the situation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u90	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the Spring Note today. In fact, we will only have to deal with changes and adjustments for the current financial year. However, we always look traditionally at the forthcoming budget, not least because the cabinet is already preparing it. This spring note is from a missionary cabinet. If there's a new cabinet in September, we don't know yet. This means that this outgoing cabinet is also preparing the 2018 budget. With all the proposals and with all the policies, the question is: is this about ruling over the grave or is it about leaving bodies in the closet or not? First of all, we must congratulate the Minister of Finance. With the Millions note, a deficit of 0.5% was expected for 2017 and now we have a surplus of 0.2%. Tax revenues are close to 8 billion and the overall expenditure framework is down by 1 billion. Especially with the delivery framework for care, there is a significant downfall, partly because the exchange rate is extra large here. It is so large, because in the care after the Million Note there is no wage and price adjustment anymore. How does the Minister judge this? There is more room for healthcare expenditure, but it is not used. Why not? I'm asking because I'm looking at nursing care with some surprise. The cabinet first cut back on this and then made extra money for it, but it took social pressure and independent supervisors to establish that quality is not in order. Now there are binding quality requirements. These are going to cost more than €2 billion a year. Yesterday there was a letter from the cabinet saying that extra money will be added to the 2018 budget. It amounts to 335 million. It is clear that this is far from enough to meet the legal quality requirements, but it is a step forward. Mr Van Weyenberg referred to the fact that only 100 million a year had been reserved in the multiannual view of the Minister of Finance. In any case, for a subsequent cabinet, there is still a figure of about EUR 2 billion, a financial figure in the closet. How does the Minister judge this? 2017 is an acute problem for my group. In the spring note, only 100 million are occasionally reserved and 100 million are fixed for nursing care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u91	I shall come back to the previous point. Does Mr Snels agree with D66 that it would be a good idea for the Minister to send a new table to the Chamber in which the determined expenditure on the care and, as far as I am concerned, the open task of teaching has been properly taken into account? Then there will be no gaps in the budget and we will also be able to see how the CPB is dealing with this. Does Mr Snels agree with me that this would improve the purity of the political balance, no matter how we do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u92	I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg. I look forward to receiving the answers from the Minister of Finance. I was talking about 2017. If you take into account the rising costs of wages and prices, the additional money for 2017 is insufficient to maintain the current quality. If you then consider that the quality requirements of the Healthcare Institute are legally binding, even though the standards have not yet been fully worked out, I agree with Mr Harbers....................................................................................................................................................................................... This is not a new policy, it is a policy for which the outgoing cabinet is still fully responsible. GroenLinks had expected that the cabinet would already give a strong boost to nursing care by spring, especially given the commitment in the election campaign and the election programmes. Why wasn't that political space taken? Why isn't it settled now? Why hasn't butter already been delivered to the fish? Then there's the cost-sharing standard. That austerity was booked for 2019, but the cabinet will let it go anyway. Mr Schouten of the Christian Union calls this "ruling over the grave" because a structural claim is made to the next cabinet. I do not agree with the Christian Union. The current cabinet did not dare to take the austerity on its own account and tried to shift the political pain to the next cabinet. That's not neat. That would have been a political corpse in the closet. So congratulations to the cabinet. But doesn't the same apply to the discount on the Wajong benefit as of 1 January 2018? Why isn't it deleted? He's a political corpse in the closet for another cabinet, isn't he? There is a relationship here with the responsibility of municipalities for social policy. They are now responsible for helping young people with disabilities, for caring for vulnerable elderly people and for youth care. The legacy of decentralisation policy is that municipalities are currently facing financial difficulties. How does the Cabinet view this legacy? Mr Nijboer has already spoken about this in the municipal education deficit policy too, and there is a legacy of oversimplification. The cabinet has now developed a new funding system for this, but says, through the Secretary of State, that it maintains the old system because it is missionary. As a result, in 2018 there will be a reduction of 65 million. That, too, seems to me to be another body in the closet for a new cabinet. I would like to hear a response to this. At this point, I am considering tabling a motion. A lot has already been said about salaries in primary schools. You could say that making room on the budget to raise those salaries in this case is really ruling over the grave. But still, in the autumn the collective agreement ends. There will need to be more room to finance the necessary increase. You can also say that if this cabinet does not provide more money in the preparation of the Millions Note, there will be a gap in the budget later. That's another financial body in the closet. How does the Minister of Finance view this? Teachers' incomes are a symptom of a bigger problem. The incomes of ordinary hard-working Dutch people have fallen behind in recent years, not only because wage increases are too low, but also because of government policy. The purchasing power image that emerges from the CEP of the CPB is not beautiful. Retirement beneficiaries and pensioners are either zero or a minus. Workmen come out at half a percent. If you get more than three modes, you're up 0.8%. If you have less than modal, you stay at zero. The policy deployed in 2018 is good for people who already have it right. After all, this policy is about cutting costs at the top; I refer to the reduction in the top rate and the extension of the third disc. However, it is unfavorable for people who have it less or just hard work. I would like to mention the reduction in assistance, the reduction in the health allowance and the increase in the burden through an increase in the second and third discs. That's a lot of corpses in the closet for people with a modal or lower income. This commitment, the aspects of which have been identified by the CPB, will increase income disparities. Both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have said that this needs to be corrected. I support them in that. How's the Cabinet gonna do this? How much money would it be about? The Minister of Finance suggested earlier that it should be about several billions: 1, 2? Does he see room to do that in this cabinet? "Right over the grave or corpses in the closet?': That was the question. I have made it clear that this outgoing cabinet must take responsibility for leaving neither financial nor political corpses in the closet. That means ruling and not leaning back, for example when it comes to health care. I would have liked to have seen this outgoing cabinet in the spring paper 2017 have already arranged more money for nursing care. I support the commitment to spend more money on primary education in 2018 and to achieve a balanced distribution of income, with the highest incomes going no further than the rest of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u93	Mr. Chairman. Household incomes in the Netherlands have hit hard in recent years to get the budget in order. According to the Central Statistical Office, income decreased in 2010, 2012 and 2013. In 2014 they rose again. That was also necessary, because on average household spending in the Netherlands is as much as 10% lower than that in other countries of the European Union. As a reason for this, the Minister mentions our healthcare system and the tendency of Dutch people to save, but could the modest increase in purchasing power not also play a role for many, according to the Minister? I told you, purchasing power will only grow a little in 2017. In the June estimate, purchasing power growth is estimated at 0.3% for all households. However, we have already heard that it is very different from one group to another. Since the estimate, inflation has been substantially adjusted upwards. What impact does that have on purchasing power? What income does the Minister say is going to fall through the zero line while the economic tide is on and one can see on television and read in the newspaper that it is all so incredibly positive? Of every euro we made in the 1990s, 80 cents went to people who worked. Nowadays, that's 73 cents. This means that from what we earn, it is more in companies' profits and less in people's wages. The employment ratio is falling. How does the government view this? What does this say about the stability of our economy? If De Nederlandsche Bank, the European Commission in the country-specific recommendation, the International Monetary Fund, the SP and the CPB have now said that wages have to rise significantly to ensure that the economy is maintained by purchasing power and internal spending, then where is the cabinet? Would it not be good if we increased the labour quota by, for example, increasing the salaries of civil servants? For example, by increasing teachers' salaries? By investing in agents and security?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u94	I assume Mrs Leijten is referring to the labour income ratio and not a quota for teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u95	I just said that, but I'm trying to explain that the people who are following this get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u96	Just relatively more pay; I very much agree with that. What I might like most in Mrs Leijten's speech is the call to listen carefully to De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Office, the OECD and the IMF. Is Mrs Leijten going to make that a habit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u97	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u98	Look, a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u99	We listen to everyone very carefully. And then we look at what we think is good for society on the basis of our political vision. When the Central Planning Office says that investing in care and education only sees it as a cost, we do not listen very well to the Central Planning Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u100	That you usually don't listen to them well has become me. If Mrs Leijten hears: don't go pottering, see how you can get people a better pension by changing the pension system, make sure you make the labour market a little fairer... These are all interesting advices that I highly recommend to Mrs Leijten. I hope to record as much enthusiasm for this as for higher wages, on which I agree with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u101	You know, Mr Van Weyenberg, perhaps you should not only look at models that you like, for example for the labour market, but also listen to those who warn about the consequences of that labour market. I can still hear the SP warn about the flexibilisation of the labour market, about the consequences for young people who never get a fixed contract, therefore unable to buy a house and have little future. I can still hear us warning of the fact that if you allow flex, not only at peak and sick... Mr Van Weyenberg is a bit wobbled, but I hope he also listens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u102	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u103	The fact that we have allowed this as a normal shell means that we now have to repair the labour market, that we have to set up contracts for two years, of which we also see negative consequences. Even D66, the driver of the flexibilisation of the labour market -- flex is fine -- now says we've gone a little far. So yes, we will listen carefully to De Nederlandsche Bank, the Central Planning Bureau and anyone who gives us advice, but we will always point out the estimates and interpretations. And if they are in a neoliberal frame, then we will fight them and we will not listen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u104	Judging by the excitement and the long answer, this was perhaps a sensitive question. It wasn't supposed to be like that. I was hoping Mrs Leijten would listen to them more often. When I look at the labour market, I can only conclude that perhaps the very stubbornness of the SP in the labour market and the fact that no SMEs dare to give more people a fixed contract... As I agree with her that we need to ensure that we are able to deal with a fluctuating flex, I also ask her to consider how we can ensure that employers can get back to offering such a fixed contract. Which might bother me the most... I agree with Mrs Leijten that you should go for your ideals. However, I would point out that at first in bad times she did not take responsibility for making proposals today that cost money again, while she was nowhere to be found to help put the budget in order and that she does not want to take responsibility in the government. I think she would be much better at helping the voters who voted for her by just coming to the table to talk than putting in one uncovered amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u105	First of all, the amendments are covered, from the budget surplus. Even if we accept all my amendments, and I am going to say how sensible it is to do so, to invest in society, there is still a budget surplus, so that you can also pay off public debt. So this isn't profiting or interning. There's more money available now. After a long time when people were told to tighten the belt, we're gonna take care of the teachers and the police again. I'm about to list everything. A word about saying that we would have no alternatives or would not listen. We have proposed a law to tackle flex work. As a result, the flexible shell would not always have been cheaper, so it would not always be tormented by fixed and certain work. We wanted to make flexible work a little more expensive, making permanent work more attractive and using flexible work only at peak and sick. I think we can help small businesses if we take over the second year of illness. That was, by the way, a proposal made by the SP together with the VVD in the previous coalition. That has not been done, but we are always looking for solutions. And when it comes to getting the budget back in order, we always leave our investment and austerity agendas and all the other measures to be taken in elections. We have always done so, and we have always come out well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u106	I believe that this point has been sufficiently discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u107	Well, Mr President, I know the SP's calculations: they don't usually lead to lower government deficits or lower government debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u108	That's just wrong. This is fact free politics. We had a larger budget surplus than the VVD and a lower public debt than the VVD in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u109	And the shelf life was all screwed up, so all the bills...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u110	Yeah, in 2060.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u111	The SP dares to table uncovered amendments in this Chamber. Does the SP dare to join in the Stadhouderskamer? I would have liked to have taken responsibility and done business with Mrs Leijten, but the SP was nowhere to be seen at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u112	You've already exchanged all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u113	We have said very clearly that we would like a different course for the Netherlands. We really want to explore this other course with D66, but with the VVD we don't like it. So if you let go of the VVD, we'll talk. I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u114	Please continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u115	The SP proposes to increase the wages of masters and teachers in primary education. I heard the Minister of Finance say on the radio last Friday that he wants to deal with this in the forthcoming budget. But why should we wait for that, Minister? We are not waiting to announce 435 million extra money for the nursing homes, nor are we waiting to spend 4 billion on new submarines. Then why should we tell the masters and girls to wait? I don't think that's a good explanation. Every day these masters and teachers train our children. They literally have the future in their hands. And they're calling for our help. Investing in primary education, in the people who teach, is investing in society. We propose to abolish the lowest salary scale in primary education. I have tabled an amendment to make funds available for this purpose. That's not an uncovered check. Indeed, more tax money has been received and less has been spent, so there is money in the budget. This is a political choice. The public debt must be reduced, but not at all costs. It is not right that the entire surplus should be used for lower public debt when the needs in the country are high. If everyone says that other things have been solved, the problem can also be solved that the police, like the teachers, are sighing under too high a workload because of the austerity policies of the last few years. There's a huge lack of capacity. In rural areas you can call the police, but in a burglary it is probably too late; the burglar is already gone when the police arrive. It now appears that even in the major cities declarations are no longer accepted. That was big news last Monday. Well, if anything hits the Randstad, it's suddenly big news. In the countryside, they already know what it means when police stations disappear in the neighborhood. I simply propose to use 200 million of the budget surplus to strengthen the police force and to keep it strong where necessary. We can do that now; we really do not have to wait for that formation table. Is the Minister prepared to give a positive opinion on this? He can also see that the forming parties probably want to do something about the capacity problems in the police. A human being is more than a consumer. Space for culture in our society is of great importance. Several institutions are in financial need because of the huge cuts. With occasional funds of 10 million, the institutions were at least maintained this year. They are involved in programming, employing people or have contracts withzzp'ers. They see that this is going to go away on 1 January. In the summer they have to make their plans. I therefore propose that we allocate the same amount to continue to give these institutions progress in 2018. The difficult times in which they had to contribute to resolving the budget deficit are still over. I'm asking for a response from the Minister. Then I'll come to Q-support. The Q-fever victims received a Q-support fund. This is some kind of organization with a fund that advises and guides people to do research when they are sick. These people have been quite abandoned by the government. There have been long debates in this Chamber. Q-support's assignment ends in 2018. That also ends the funding. It is up to a new cabinet to decide on this, but unfortunately that new cabinet is not yet there. People are getting fired this summer. This summer, Q-support will finish its advice. It's only $2 million. Isn't it really possible that we're just going to have Q-support for next year? Then he gets that in advance this year and can continue his advisory role. If a new cabinet decides in all its wisdom that Q-support should disappear, the Chamber also has the room to exchange a firm word about it. I am, however, relying on the support of the forming parties. In 2016, 70 deaths were caused by industrial accidents. That's an increase of 40%. Safety at work is pleasant for everyone, but it is also necessary. It's not everywhere. We do not have a well-equipped inspection for social affairs and employment. The committee agrees on this. We must act in case of unsafe situations and prevent the weather from going wrong. The committee agrees on that, too. In fact, everyone has said that more investment is needed, but we also see that we are not doing anything because we are being formed. We propose that 40 million be released to strengthen inspection and, for example, to address situations of exploitation and underpayment. According to 267 aldermen in our country, guidance to work for people with disabilities, but also for young people, has been difficult to get started. We have also seen this at the General Court. It has actually been established that the government does not comply with this social mission. This budget will be cut in 2017, while more is needed. That is why, and in order to support the aldermen, we have tabled an amendment on this subject to release 100 million for this purpose. To anyone who says this is pottering, I say that it is about listening to the needs of society, to the aldermen, including those of D66, VVD, CDA and Christian Union. They ask the Chamber to help them help people. Also the Inspection SZW asks us to help her to help enough people. I think we should do the same. Then there is still enough money left to do something about public debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u116	Despite the denial, the SP Group has committed the following amounts in a number of debates within a week: 200 million for the police, 1 billion for the Health Insurance Act, 10 million for culture, 80 million for SZW, an unknown package for teachers' salaries and 100 million for the municipalities. However, I have not yet seen any cover amendment. Is there even one indication of coverage? What does the SP want to pay for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u117	From the budget surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u118	And so every day we get three plans to pay out of the budget surplus. Should we ourselves publish in a few months' time a state of what the SP has been willing to pay out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u119	There's six of them you've seen filed. They come to a total of 852 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u120	852 million a week about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u121	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u122	What's next with the Millions Note, uncovered, just as an idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u123	Uncovered? We have that money. You yourself say that you are so pleased that we are doing something out of the extra money that comes in, for example for the household care fine. You're saying you're so happy about that. Why should it be if the government decides to use a budget statement, not if a parliamentary group proposes to us to do so? Please explain this to me, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u124	Quite simple, because there are cover measures and because there were proposals in the Chamber. Of course, the SP can come up with a new plan every day for free and say: it can come out of the budget surplus. If the SP ran a household, she'd be in debt restructuring within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u125	This is bullshit. Anyway, it's bullshit to think of the government as a housekeeping book. There will be a lot of debate on this in the coming years. I look forward to that already. But I've heard all these years that it couldn't be done and that we had to tighten the belt. You yourself say that more is being estimated for the frameworks but that it is not being spent on them. How can that be? Oh, no, that was Mr. Snels. We are not taking it out of the frameworks now, but out of the budget surplus. We could even take it out of the frameworks, so that the whole budget surplus is left for the public debt. But we do not, because within these frameworks there is still room for manoeuvre. There's money. Everywhere it is said that the economy is so great. People see teachers who are on their feet, they see unrecorded reports, they don't hear when they call the police. I can't explain that to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u126	Mr. Chairman. Draghi sneezed in Portugal a week ago and the whole of Europe has a cold. Ten-year interest rates increased by 0.2% in two days last week, from about 0.44 to 0.64%. That's what I call a sip on a drink. It turns out that even threatening to limit the "free money infusion" is already doing its job. The Netherlands Bank recently indicated that ECB policy has an effect on interest rates of 0.8% to 1.5%. According to De Nederlandsche Bank, this means an effect on the coverage of pension funds from 5 to 10%. In the case of a pension fund of 1,400 billion, we have that in the pot, we are wealthy and we are talking about a huge amount of 100 billion. That is why a year ago I started an own-initiative proposal for a 2% temporary interest rate for the calculation of pension liabilities, with the sole aim of avoiding any reductions over the next five years. The calculation rate was then at a low point and the coverage rate had fallen to 90%. I feared great discounts for millions of participants. Even in the autumn, Trump's election made it unnecessary to extend the recovery period, which was being discussed here. The cabinet was rescued from an embarrassing discount crisis in the run-up to the elections. Doesn't this show that we have a crazy calculation system? That's what I'm asking the Minister. The extremely low and manipulated calculation rate is the only problem in the current pension system, which is the best in the world. Dutch politics does not want to change its own rules on arithmetic interest rates, which can of course be done, so we can do it ourselves, with a temporary soil interest rate of 2% for up to five years. The Central Planning Office gave its blessing in January by saying that its generational effects are small. We politicians should not exaggerate, because that is of no use to anyone, but we are debating today the Spring Paper and a budget with a historically very large windfall. The deficit has actually been turned into a surplus of 1.6 billion, and the Minister deserves a great compliment for this. The Netherlands is now taking full advantage of the growth of world trade. It is high time that all Dutch people felt this in their wallet and especially the elderly who have fallen far behind in purchasing power in recent years. Tax revenues are almost 8 billion higher than we assumed last year, and there are also considerable windfalls on the expenditure side. The so-called exchange rate falls, among other things 700 million on the social affairs framework, indicate that the effect of the wage and price adjustment is less than the effect of the price adjustment on national spending. But what does that mean? That's deflation policy. Why do you do that, Minister? Isn't that difficult to explain, even in the euro group? Just a little more indexing of collective spending rather than a little less, it would have been okay. The IMF, the ECB, the Planning Bureau and the European Commission would greatly appreciate a little extra upward inflationary pressure from the Dutch budget, especially as a result of a significant increase in wages for workers and a reduction in the burden on everyone, but above all with a catch-up for the elderly. We want a major tax reduction for older people in 2018. After sharing the acid, now we're going to share the sweet; we remember that pronunciation. Older people are lagging behind in purchasing power not only in the labour force in 2017 and 2018 by 1%, but even in the benefit recipients. I do not need to dwell on the position of older unemployed people in the labour market. That's one of the greatest human dramas of our time. And those are the friends and friends of my children from 45 to 50 years old. It's appalling, and we're not doing anything about it. Our pensions are drowning under low interest rates. Pensions have not been indexed for eight years and almost certainly not for the next ten years. In the coming years there will even be substantial reductions if, according to the rules of the ftk or Financial Future, the coverage rate remains below 105% for five years. And we're way below that. Does the Minister really think that this is a good system? The AOW hasn't been prosperous for a long time. 50PLUS wants a large additional tax reduction for the purchasing power of older people. Those older people have experienced a significant fall in purchasing power from 5% to 12% since 2008, whereas the working population has improved by 10%. From 2000 onwards, the difference is even more than 30% between workers and pensioners. Therefore, I would like to emphasise the approach of the Law on the Unifying Wage Concept, a drama of 2013, which I would almost characterize as legalised theft among the elderly. And, of course, I hardly have to mention it in the 2016 tax reduction of 5 billion. That is tax age discrimination, and it must stop. Wage from present and past labour, according to the Pay Tax Act, must be taxed equally. Older people get crazy about stacking loads. For the 2018 Tax Plan, we ask the cabinet for the elderly discount to achieve a gradual phasing-out as is customary for all other tax reductions. With €1 extra income, you will lose the €1,300 discount. Due to €1 more income, you lose €1,300 net, it is unimaginable. In the First Chamber I tabled a motion which was also adopted, but according to the cabinet it is all complicated; it is about the elderly, I think. It didn't do anything about it. We demand that this be resolved now. This is a looming error in tax law. 50PLUS wants the policy to be corrected. For now, it's about the Spring Paper 2017. We will confine ourselves to what is most necessary, but we ask the cabinet to adjust the budget in the interim. The money's here. With public debt below 60%, according to the European budgetary agreements, we may even have a small structural deficit. The minister now assumes a surplus of 1.3% in 2021, which is over 10 billion. I have three questions for the Minister about the surplus. On the basis of the latest CBS figures, does he assume that the surplus will be significantly higher than the 1.6 billion over the year? Does a higher surplus also work towards 2012 in 2017? I was talking about the AOW. It is further lagging behind the nominal development of gross national product. We therefore consider an additional increase to be desirable and necessary. Rear maintenance! We are talking about an additional structural increase in the AOW by about 2% over a whole year. In recent years 2014-1017 the national product has increased by 8.6% and the AOW only by 4.9%. We would like to add 18 million to the one-off budget for training vouchers to a job of chance. That jar's empty now. 50PLUS would like to continue this successful scheme for young and old and has tabled an amendment to that effect. As is well known, 50PLUS has also tabled an amendment to the structural increase in the AOW, which I would like to mention here, of course, substantially confiscate this year's surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr. Chairman. After the acid, it would be sweet. That was the promise with which the Rutte II cabinet began its reign in 2012. Tough cuts and tough measures had to get the housekeeping book in order. And eventually, at the end of those bitter years, people would feel the recovery in their wallet. We've been four and a half years. There is growth and a budget surplus. But with its fixation on the balance sheets and budgets, this government has not solved problems but deepened the crisis. The recovery was therefore delayed and resolved despite and not thanks to this cabinet. So the recovery has started and the most important question here is: what do people in the country notice about this? The answer to that question is: too little. It is not for nothing that the CBP in the Central Economic Plan speaks of only limited purchasing power gains in 2017. Some groups go backwards on balance. Speakers have already discussed this in detail. That's about the elderly. People with a minimum income and those with a middle income are hardly making any progress. For them, the sour years are only getting sourer, while the Rutte cabinet promised last year that everyone would improve in 2017. That is once again a broken promise from this Prime Minister. It won't get any better in 2018. The benefit recipients then go backwards, the elderly return, but the worst part is that low-income workers get nothing at all while the most wealthy are simply in the plus. Rutte II's legacy is more inequality and more injustice, in a country with 2.1% growth and the largest budget surplus in the euro area. DENK therefore requires the government to improve the purchasing power situation for vulnerable groups. Don't let our elders stand in their shirt, give those on low incomes breathing space and make the right decisions on Prince's Day to keep these groups safe. Is the government prepared to do so? I would like to hear a response to that, and I would like to announce that I will table a motion on this matter in the second term. As far as DENK is concerned, it is time for people to finally feel the recovery in their wallets. Despite the decrease in purchasing power among groups in 2017 and 2018, the word "buy power" does not occur at all in the entire Spring Note. Of course, that's weird. Why is that the case? Why doesn't the government give an analysis of the purchasing power picture in the spring note? DENK asks the government to give an analysis of purchasing power next time in the spring note. I'd like a response. One of the reasons why purchasing power development is moderated is, of course, the increase in inflation. In September's Millions Note, inflation was still assumed to be half a percent, while inflation is currently assumed to be 1.6%. As a result, inflation in the Netherlands is just above average inflation in the euro area. The difference between the September estimate and the forecast under the Spring note of 0.9% is enormous. The CPB mentions energy prices and the high dollar rate as reasons, but this doesn't fall out of the sky, does it? Have the math masters been sleeping? To what extent does government policy have to do with this? I also ask the Minister why the rise in inflation is so much higher than the increase in contract wages, which is at the expense of the above-mentioned purchasing power. What is the government going to do about this? What does the government think of De Nederlandsche Bank and the CPB saying that the growth of wages in the Netherlands is lagging behind growth? The director of De Nederlandsche Bank, Job Swank, says: "We are not in favour of unbridled wage increases, but that the central bank advocates higher wages, is historically quite a lot." DENK agrees and asks the government what it intends to do about this. Then something about the interest rate. Here too, there is a big difference between the Million Note and the Spring Note. Long-term interest rates of 0.1% were still assumed in September and 0.7% are now assumed. How can that difference be explained? Were those the same sleeping mathematicians? What is the role of public policy in this? It is striking that, despite the fact that interest rates are rising much more than was initially thought, there has been a fall in interest rates due to study funding. That happened because the interest rate would be lower. As interest rates increase according to the CPB, the government receives less interest income because of the study. How does the Minister explain this? Then something about the cash slides. For the viewers at home: that is The Hague's jargon for budgets from one year to the next. In the long term, we see that this shifting with budgets over the years has a significant impact on the budget. Until 2021, the cash slides seem to lead to an additional EUR 1.3 billion burden for the government. The shifting of money does not therefore lead to a balance in the budget. On the contrary, the government seems to rule over its budgetary grave. Is this true? Is the balance sheet improved in the short term with a smart accounting trick, while the long-term balance sheet is deteriorating? Is that even by the book? After years of setbacks, our society has some money to distribute. It is up to us as politicians to use this money to make the Netherlands fairer and fairer. While Minister Dijsselbloem is proud of himself because the Netherlands is the goodest boy in the class in terms of budget surplus, teachers from primary education stand up for a higher wage, 400,000 children grow up in a situation of severe financial difficulties, your parents' wallet still matters whether or not you are successful in education and people get caught up in discrimination and racism every time. Three months ago, the people in the country gave us the confidence to solve the problems in this country. Let us not betray that confidence. Let us make the Netherlands fairer and fairer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u128	Mr. Chairman. It is here in The Hague that when the government receives more tax money than thought, it is used to speak of a windfall. For those who are used to that, all parties of the party cartel are used to it today seems not July 5th, but December 5th. Saint Nicholas is in the country!. After all, the spring note we are discussing today is one big windfall that the parties to the cartel can use to give themselves and their clientele gifts. Seven-eight-billion-dollar windfall. In nine months, nearly 1 billion a month. But, Mr President, these aren't any luck. These are setbacks for the working Dutchman, who apparently paid too much tax. Over the period 2005-2017, the total tax revenue increased by more than 40% from 183 billion to around 268 billion. During the same period, the Dutch economy has also grown, but certainly not by 40%. So the government has really gained a much greater grip on the economy and has allocated itself a greater share of the gross national product. That's not a good thing. Of course, that tax money will come up. There's no art to that. All parties in the cartel have their own hobbies and plans. But that's not how it was agreed in advance. Most citizens and businesses have no difficulty in paying taxes, provided they have confidence in the effectiveness and efficiency of tax spending. That is precisely why the government must strive to keep the tax burden as low as possible. Not only we of FvD think that; it is even in the party program of a cartel party like the VVD. I would like to quote a word of agreement on that for a change. In a free country, the government has the obligation to keep the tax burden as low as possible, according to the VVD. Every time there is a windfall, this means that the government has failed in this endeavour. In fact, the government parties have not managed to keep the tax burden as low as possible. The 2017 Spring Note shows that tax revenues at the Ministry of Finance are bouncing against the plinths. With a substantial budget surplus and a growing economy in mind, it is appropriate to adjust policies. I call on the Chamber to take two decisions on the spring note, which can remedy the government's failure with immediate effect. Firstly, from now on, we will no longer speak of a windfall when citizens have paid more to the government than was necessary. The EUR 7.8 billion additional revenue in the spring note is a setback of 7.8 billion. Let's make a deal with each other. From now on, we're gonna call windfalls a bummer. That will clarify the future. The second thing I am asking is to reduce the tax burden. Right away. We do not need to wait for the formation talks to be held. We can simply reverse the burdens that were intended to resist the crisis. Identify the burdens which have been increased by the argument that the crisis had to be combated and withdraw them immediately. Only then will you take the citizen seriously. Only next time, when another crisis comes, can you seriously ask citizens to help again. If we do not do this, we will be putting the legitimacy of the government and of democracy at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-05-tweedekamer-2.u129	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We're gonna suspend now to ten for two. Then we shall begin with the arrangements for work. We shall then resume this debate at two o'clock.
