ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u1	Mr. Chairman. We have been able to exchange in the first period that the number of earthquakes in Groningen has been halved over the past three years, that this reduction has occurred in particular in the Loppersum area, but that there has recently been another development in the wrong direction in the last six months, and that, as a cabinet, we have decided, in anticipation of an opinion from State surveillance of the Mines, to take a step towards further reduction in natural gas extraction by 10% in the area, starting on the next date, which is 1 October. I will be happy to deal with the motions put to the House by the spokesmen and then answer a few questions, in particular from Mrs Van Veldhoven. The first motion is that of Mrs Van Tongeren in part No. 335. It invites the Chamber to say that the government is asking for the intention of the Council of State ruling to be carried out and to limit the extraction of gas at Loppersum to the smallest possible quantity necessary for a so-called watch-flammation mode. That is in line with the policy of the cabinet. It is true that what we do in the Loppersum cluster does not affect the total of the extraction, the natural gas needed from Groningen. So that's not affected by the height of that flare. We went back in that area from 15 to 16 billion to 1 billion. If there's less, there's nothing against it. We're looking into that, and we'll see what comes out of those tests. The aim is to ensure that the flame of watch is no more than a flame of watch and to limit extraction as much as possible. I leave the judgment on the Van Tongeren c.s motion. in piece No. 335 to the Chamber. In the motion-Van Tongeren c.s. in piece No. 336 the government is invited to initiate processes to fully implement the original recommendations of the OVV. We have done a lot of work with this and the OVV has also noted that this has progressed very far. We continue to implement the original recommendations. I also leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. In her motion in part No. 337 asks Mrs Van Tongeren the government to ensure that a new protocol on damages is in line with Dutch law and to have a legal test carried out in advance by the Supreme Court or by a President of a court. The new protocol should, above all, be able to count on support in the area. Of course, this new protocol, like the new handbook, will have to be fully in line with the relevant legislation. A pre-trial test by the judge is very unusual and really not necessary. If there's a case coming up, the judge should be able to rule on it. Individual cases may be brought before the courts. The damage protocol can also be dealt with. I have no objection to any of that, but I'm not in favour of a test in advance. Mrs Van Tongeren asked whether civil or administrative law applies. As it stands, we have civil law in mind, but I cannot make definitive statements on it, because we are in the process of conducting an open process in the area to see how best to fill in the manual and the damage protocols. We'll have to see about that. On this basis, I can say definitively whether civil law, administrative law or civil law will become parts of administrative law. Because of the way we approach this, I have not yet been able to comment on the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u2	The minister said I asked him for a test before the new protocol arrived, but it may happen simultaneously from me or after the new protocol arrived. The Minister very much wants Groningers not to go to court or as little as possible. If at a time when this is possible even after the new protocol is in place, it will be checked whether it complies with the legislation, you may avoid confusion and a lot of lawsuits. The intention is that you have lost the confusion between earthquake damage, soil movement and mining damage in the reversal of the burden of proof by an authoritative test. That is why I suggested that it be reviewed by someone from the Supreme Court's advice, the Council of State or a President of a court. They do this kind of thing all the time. That's what gives you more confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u3	That won't be necessary. An open process is under way to establish protocols and a handbook. Both the lawyers at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the lawyers at the NCG are intensively involved in this. We must do our job well, as always in these cases. If there are concrete cases, the judge must be free to rule on them. We ensure that it is in line with the relevant legislation. I am not in favour of a preliminary test by the Supreme Court or by a President of a court, even if it takes place afterwards. I therefore reject the Van Tongeren c.s motion. in piece No. 337. I come to the Beckerman/Wassenberg motion on part No. 338. It calls on the government to adopt a coherent approach in which human measure and generosity prevail. This should be organised independently of NAM and Economic Affairs. I think it is unthinkable to do this independently of Economic Affairs. Responsibility for what is happening there is borne by the cabinet. In the first instance, someone must do the day-to-day work and make proposals to the cabinet. That's what Economic Affairs does. Whether it is Economic Affairs or another, one of the members of the cabinet makes the necessary proposals and is responsible for implementing them. I have done so, my predecessor has done so and my successor will do so. It is really not a solution to organise something that is going on here and about which Economic Affairs has the expertise independently of Economic Affairs, as if getting rid of Economic Affairs is an end in itself. I therefore advise against the Beckerman/Wassenberg motion in part No. 338.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u4	As you know, many Groningers have lost faith in the NAM, but also in the government and specifically in Economic Affairs. We would therefore welcome the creation of an independent institution, which the inhabitants have a great deal of control over, so that the final responsibility is decoupled from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Minister himself said that he was sorry that Groningers lost that trust. Then why can't he go along with this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u5	Because the Minister of Economic Affairs as a member of the Cabinet is doing his best to act in the interests of the people in Groningen. That is my job, that was the work of my predecessor and that will be the work of my successor. The cabinet is responsible and a minister has to do that work. I see no reason why the next Minister of Economic Affairs should not be able to do so and another should do so. We talked about the independence of the National Coordinator Groningen and the state surveillance of the Mines. Independent scientific research is already being carried out. We shouldn't put ourselves in the dock as a government or as a ministry or as a regiment. We are here to defend the common good. We are transparent in this and we are doing our utmost to do so, in interaction with Parliament. I therefore see no reason to do what is requested in this motion. I therefore advise against the motion. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 339 states that the process of achieving a new injury protocol must be independent and that the final result must not be fixed in advance. That is what I said in the debate. I shall come to the debate on the motion for a resolution on item No. 342 back to you. This motion is, however, partly in view of the motion on item No. 342 and what I have said, so unnecessary, that I betray her. In the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. the government is invited to review what is necessary for the security of supply and the security of capacity and the State's supervision of the Mines to play a role in this. I explained that GTS, a 100% public company, is looking at what is needed for security of supply. I intend to have the results of GTS validated by another. I have no objection to at the same time submitting the outcome of GTS to state supervision, with the question of whether it wishes to comment on it. I note that state surveillance is not for that. It's not set for that and it's not set for that. It's not his job, but I have no objection to putting this before him in this case, if the Chamber so wishes. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. In the motion-Van Veldhoven c.s. in piece No. 341 is asked to come up with one fully independent research programme. That motion is widely signed, but I would ask the authors to think about it a little bit, perhaps also in light of what I am about to say. At the moment there are two knowledge programmes. We have the Knowledge Programme Effects Mining (KEM) and the National Programme Knowledge Development Deep Underground. The National Knowledge Development Programme Deep Underground is intended for the long term, a period of ten years. This is above all a fundamental research. The Impact Mining Knowledge Programme is intended for the short term, i.e. for six months to a few years. This is mainly intended to ensure that EZ, SodM and the NCG have the scientific research results they need. The more fundamental research for the long-term period of ten years............................................................................................................................................................................................. There's a little bit of NWO's own money in there, but Shell has made 15 million available. That's what he's funding. Since we in the Chamber and the Government consider it so important that there is independent research, without any apparent conflict of interest, we would very much like to leave aside the long-term basic research financed by Shell. That Knowledge Programme Effects Mining, which is really focused on applied research and on research results that we need to do our job well, we want to be completely independent and we do not want to have Shell's funding. The SodM very much agrees with that. It does want coordination between these programmes, but it does not want a merger. For this reason, I would advise against this motion and suggest to the proposers that they withdraw it. In this case, I really think it is important that this happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u6	I share the Minister's analysis that independence must be guaranteed. If this requires a cut between certain research programmes, we will certainly look carefully at them. An earlier report by the OVV referred to other ongoing research programmes, which are public. I am holding this motion for the moment, so that we can formulate it even more carefully if necessary after the Minister's explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u7	I appreciate that. It is not as the OVV states that no investigations are yet being carried out. Over the past two years, a wide variety of studies have already been launched and some of them have already been carried out in the field of mining effects. These are the effects both above and below ground, studies and reviews, water injection, salt extraction and the consequences of rising mining water, improving the safety of geothermal energy, and risk analysis of small fields. So there are a lot of studies already under way, but now it is a question of setting up a programme with a scientific committee above it, which is completely independent. There must be no conflict of interest. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that Mrs Van Veldhoven is holding her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u8	At the request of Mrs Van Veldhoven, I propose her motion (33529, No. 341), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 341/2000. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u9	In the motion in part No. 342 the government is asked to inform the Chamber in mid-June of the results of the new scheme, so that the settlement of damage can be resumed quickly. It is also stated that the NCG should have the space to ensure that there are good protocols and a good manual. That must indeed be done as it says here. Mid-June is a reasonable deadline, because the ambition is to have the business running as of 1 July. But the Chamber knows from the initial reactions how complicated the field is by now. The NCG must manage all of this in the right direction. He's very committed to that. He also hopes that he will be done with that in good time. He and I can't guarantee that, but we'll do our best. Since what is in the motion is in line with what we want, and we also consider it important for the Chamber to express its support for it, I would like to move the motion in part. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u10	I see that the authors, the Minister and the rest of the Chamber do not object.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u11	Then I come to the motion on part No. 343. The motion in part No. I would like to include 345. Mrs Sazias says she wants a phasing-out plan for the extraction of gas with clear steps and intermediate steps. In his motion, Mr Wassenberg asks for item No. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound level of noise emitted by motor vehicles and their trailers. One particular thing I need to get clear for myself. I'd like to change that with the room. We have now had the advice of the SodM, which states that we need to reduce the 24 billion cube by 10%. That's the first step, and depending on the effects you have to look at next steps. GTS says that between 21 and 22 billion tubs of tubs closer to the 21.a minimum is necessary for an average cold winter. However, I cannot rule out the fact that at some point there is a conflict between these positions: it may be that the SodM advises to do less, but that from the point of view of security of supply that is not justified and would create serious problems again. A difficult decision must therefore be taken. So I think it would be wise to reflect on this in good time and see what situation might arise, what the different solutions are for that, what the effects of these different variants are, and what choices should be made and can be taken responsibly. I'm going to prepare myself for what needs to be done there. A phasing-out plan for gas extraction, quite apart from what I have just said, is difficult for me, because we have to make the transition to renewable energy by the year 2050. It is difficult to say that, at least in 12 years, as mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, we should reduce the extraction of gas. I don't know how that works. I do not know whether it is perhaps important for the environment and for the management of the climate problem that gas should be used for a longer period of time. I do not know whether it can be established in the future that, at a certain lower level to be determined in the longer term, fully justified gas extraction in Groningen is still possible. So there's a lot of uncertainty in it. As Mrs Sazias what I have just said, namely that I need to find a solution to the discrepancy between the SodM's advice and the analyses of the GTS, so that this is the case. the right decision-making could take place, the proper explanation of her motion in part No. I should like to make a few brief comments on the motion for a resolution. 343 and the motion in part No. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers (COM (88) 526 final - Doc. If there is any difference of opinion on that explanation, I would advise against both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u12	The twelve-year term came from Groningen. I was going to ask you if you think that deadline is feasible. That deadline is not related to my motion. You yourself mentioned a deadline, for example until 2050. That too is a dot on the horizon. Such a phasing-out plan must, of course, include many more measures, such as the promotion of natural gas-free construction and the production of clean energy. That's all part of the phasing-out plan. With this motion, therefore, I am not asking for a 'afraffle plan' to be drawn up quickly, but for a solid plan to be drawn up, as you say, at least with a view to phasing it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u13	Yes, I am prepared to strive for the reduction of fossil energy and its replacement by renewable energy. As part of this fossil energy reduction, there will also be reductions in gas use and in connection with gas extraction. To what extent that will lead to decisions in concrete terms for the shorter period of time will be demonstrated by the investigation I am doing in the event of a discrepancy between the analysis of GTS and the advice of the SodM. Then this will be dealt with again. With Mrs Sazias' explanation and with my explanation of that, if Mr Wassenberg can agree to it, I shall leave the vote on the motion for a resolution on item No. 343 and the motion in part No. 345 to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u14	I would like to add something to that. I'm also asking for a vision of the future. So, as Mrs Sazias did a little bit, I would ask you to look at the prospects that we will be able to offer to Groningen after that transition for when that transition is completed or is well on the way. Is it gonna be sun or wind? What opportunities and opportunities are we going to offer Groningen and how can the Ministry use them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u15	Groningen is very ambitious with regard to the transition to renewable energy and the role it could play in it. Several initiatives are being developed. I also support it, and I have no objection to making it clear to the Chamber at any time, in the spirit of what Mr Wassenberg says, what is the overall effort and cooperation in this area. What Mr Wassenberg is saying now, therefore, leads to what I have just said, namely that the judgment on the motion in part No. 343 and the motion in part No. 345, with the explanation given to it, to the Chamber is........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u16	Mrs Mulder has a question, even if this is not about her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u17	Indeed, for the CDA, it is important that the region itself is properly heard. If this is something that comes from the country to Groningen, we are not doing very well in my opinion. I do not think the Minister wants that either, but perhaps he can say quite explicitly that he is doing this together with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u18	It is the other way round: the region has the initiative. In the motion in part No. 344 the government is asked to come up with a plan to invest the various interests relating to the extraction of minerals at different ministries. I did say something about that. The Ministry of Economic Affairs grants permits for the mining of minerals. In the interests of safety, we will then make provision for this. When you grant a permit, you also set permit conditions. That is logically in one hand and therefore in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The SodM advises and supervises this and is completely and completely independent. That has not been discussed at any time. That is why I cannot do anything but discourage this motion, because it does not solve any problem. The motion in part No. 346 belongs to Mrs Schouten and Mrs Dik-Faber. I have the judgment on the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 342 I've taken over. In both motions all the elements of the motion in part no. 346 expressed and processed. That is why the motion in part No. 346 no added value. That's why I'm betraying her. In the motion in part No. 347 by Mr Graus c.s. is asked to draw up the buy-out scheme and to bring it into force by September. The implementation of the pilot on this buy-out scheme is still ongoing, but its entire design is clear. The evaluation by Delft University of Technology has also been done. On this basis, the social steering committee, the administrative steering committee and the National Coordinator Groningen are now being consulted. The National Coordinator intends to present its quarterly report in May, covering the first quarter of 2017. There is no doubt that this will then be discussed in the Chamber. I would suggest to Mr Graus to hold his motion until we have received that quarterly report from the National Coordinator with the results of his work and we can have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u19	I'm following the Minister's advice. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u20	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (33529, No. 347). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u21	Mrs Van Veldhoven asked me about the 30 billion m. She says: originally we had the idea that in an average winter it is 24 billion m and in a cold winter, at least in most cold winters, 30 billion m. She said, "Is that going to be lowered now if it goes down to 24 billion m?" That is absolutely the case. The fluctuations do not increase because all caps are reduced by the same percentages. The answer to this question by Mrs Van Veldhoven is therefore affirmative. Mrs Van Veldhoven also asked about the buy-back scheme. I have just responded to this in my reply to Mr Graus's question. I hope, Mr President, that I have properly provided the motions with a response from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u22	As far as I am concerned, but not as far as Mr Wassenberg is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u23	Perhaps I have missed the excuse for that, but I have the Minister's opinion on my motion in part No. 344 not received.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u24	I don't think so. But the Minister's better to say it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u25	It would not be polite to repeat what I have said about this, but my nuanced argument ended in the conclusion that I would advise against this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u26	Mr Wassenberg, finally and briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u27	May I ask the Minister why he is also dissuading the opinion of the OVV in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u28	Then I'd repeat what I just said. But since Mr Wassenberg is persisting, I will. If there are applications for mining, then a decision must be taken on this, then a permit must be granted. That's the opportunity to make conditions. Those conditions are for safety. Those who grant the licence, logically Economic Affairs, must impose these conditions and must therefore, by definition, be concerned with safety. The State supervision of the Mines is there to advise and to monitor the implementation of the decisions. The independence of State supervision of the Mines has not been formally or materially challenged at any time. There is no ambiguity about this at EZ either. Nor is there any point of pain in the State's supervision of the Mines. So this is all working very well. That makes sense, too. For that reason, I have advised against what is stated in the motion in part No. 344.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-13.u29	I would like to thank the Minister and the participants in this debate. I would also like to thank the people in the gallery and those who have followed the debate in a different way.
