ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u1	I have already welcomed the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Today, at first reading, we are discussing the modernisation of Article 13 of the Constitution. The classic letter, telegraph and telephone secrecy is extended to other means of communication to keep pace with technological innovations in the field of communication. In short, Article 13 of the Constitution is made technologically independent by speaking of letter and telecommunications secret instead of letter, telegraph and telephone secrecy. The CDA Group considers this modernisation necessary and important. My former colleague Hans Franken has also made an important contribution to thinking about this modernisation. Like the other groups in this House, the CDA Group has asked the government in writing about this bill. That was not necessary either; my group is not only in favour of modernisation, but also of the concrete legislative proposal. However, such an important proposal cannot be dismissed as a hammer piece in the First Chamber. That is why we are using this plenary debate to explicitly confirm our agreement to the legislative proposal. I would like to draw attention to three aspects of the proposal. First of all... There is a dispute over the slightly lighter protection that is now given to the classic secret of letters. The list restricts the confidentiality of letters somewhat in relation to the current situation, since this can only be done by law in the cases now, with the permission of the court. In view of the government's argument and the systematic wording of the new article, my group can go along with this choice. Second. Furthermore, there are indeed some delineation issues that play a role in the legislative proposal, for example: the content of the communication versus so-called traffic data, but these are inevitable in any design. We expect the court to be able to deal with this, partly in view of what has been dealt with in the previous written documents. Third. As regards jurisdiction for breaches of law in the interests of national security, it can be defended that it should have a stronger basis in the Constitution. However, it does not exist now and is now regulated by law without any specific form of constitutional protection. At least now there will be a constitutional basis. In short, my group is happy to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. We live in a time when technological developments are rapidly passing us by. In particular, the number and form of communications have increased enormously over the years. Where we used to write each other letters and have all the pieces on paper, today we email each other or whatsappt and look at our pieces on the iPad. In that light, it is high time we tried to bring the Constitution into line with this practice. Although the Dutch political culture is still dominated, but unjustly, by a so-called sober, but, in my view, formalist Constitution, a constitutional adjustment that is harmless to the political status quo seems feasible. The proposal was accepted unanimously across the board. That outcome is also in this house in the middle of reason. However, my group would like to raise a few points. The letter secret should apply to all forms of communication. The basic legal protection is based on the content of the communication rather than on the means of communication. Citizens have the right to remain free from public interference in communication. This protection should not depend on a particular type of means of communication. In this context, my group supports the choice made in the proposal for a technology-neutral approach to letter secrecy, which might well be called 'communication secret' in the near future. From this technology-neutral approach, the government does not want to appoint specific means of communication. My group understands this attitude on its own, but wonders whether a broader and broader interpretation of the concept of 'communications means' would not be better suited to reality. For example, there is discussion as to whether certain types of traffic data are subject to constitutional protection under Article 13 of the Constitution. Today, for example, there are refrigerators that communicate personal information to other parties. My group shares the government's view that specific legislative and regulatory action can be taken and that the courts also have a role to play in answering the question of whether or not a means of communication should be covered by the secret of communication. With a view to the formation of legal history, my group asks the Minister, where the government draws the limits in the chosen technique-neutral approach, when it comes to the interpretation of the term 'telecommunications resources'. In my group's view, the use of the term 'communication secret' rather than 'telecommunications secret' would have been better. We would therefore urge that the term 'telecommunications media' be interpreted in such a way that the broadest possible range of means of communication is covered by constitutional protection. Does the government share this plea for a broad interpretation? A second point is the possibility of restricting the constitutional protection of the secret of letters. As regards the limitation of immunity in the interests of national security, there is no provision for judicial review. Provision is made for another form of independent supervision. I do not want to anticipate next week's debate, where the amendment of the Intelligence and Security Services Act is on the agenda, but my group does not consider this monitoring figure to be unproblematic in advance. For example, the Dutch Lawyers' Committee on Human Rights has expressed concerns as to what remains of the constitutional protection of the secret of communication now that the judicial review is lacking. My group sees two constitutionally opposed supervisory figures in principle: on the one hand, the principle of the rule of law, the principle of independence and impartiality, i.e. judicial review of legality and, on the other hand, the appropriate figure in the parliamentary democratic context of a body operating under ministerial responsibility and thus parliamentary control. The choice between one of these two forms of supervision has repeatedly had to be made between the constitution and the legislator, with varying outcomes. My group would like to ask the Minister again why the choice in this case was made as it was made. We know the reference to the already existing policy under the Intelligence and Security Services Act (Wiv) and the fact that the choice made is not formally contrary to the ECHR. We also understand that next week's legislative proposal on the Wiv is proposing a figure for legality testing by an independent body, but I do not want to anticipate that now. The key question today is why the Minister would be better than the judge to assess whether a breach of letter and telecommunications secrecy is justified from a national security point of view. The next question is what exactly should be understood by national security. Can the Minister give examples of security situations that cannot be defined in terms of national security as referred to in this bill? Is any security situation a potential reason to restrict the communication secret? That is not what my group is hoping for. To what extent does the government intend to comply with the criteria of the ECHR, for example the requirement that a restriction of fundamental law protection should be necessary in democratic society and the corresponding subsidiarity and proportionality test? Another issue concerns the question of the horizontal functioning of this fundamental right and the possible active role of the public authorities in that regard. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the proposal did not settle this issue at the end of the day. It would be preferable for constitutional law to include a more general regime in the Constitution. How should we look at the responsibility of large companies such as Facebook and WhatsApp and large telephone providers? My group would believe that telecommunications secrecy should in principle also apply to them. For this reason, Article 11.2a of the Telecommunications Act already creates certain responsibilities for this type of company. However, the criticism that there is still a high level of privacy sensitivity is widespread. My group believes that social media platforms have a duty of care to handle our data carefully and to inform users about it. In the House of Representatives, the Minister was sensitive to the risks involved in this matter and considered that further regulation was not inconceivable. My group would like to hear whether the government intends to improve the protection of communications secrecy in the horizontal sense, particularly between citizens and businesses. Finally, I have a very specific question. The Computer Crime Act talks about "automated works." This includes a wide range of techniques, such as the smart thermostat. My group wonders why legislation no longer uses a clear terminology on these issues. I'm curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the legislative proposal on the amendment to the Constitution of the provisions on the immunity of letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. Fundamental rights such as equal treatment, freedom of expression, right to vote and the right to privacy are fundamental to the democratic rule of law. In its 2010 report, the Constitutional Commission rightly stated that increasing digitalisation of society affects different fundamental rights. It mentions freedom of expression, the protection of privacy and the protection of letter secrets and telephone secrecy. In addition, the ongoing digitisation of society is relevant to other fundamental rights, such as the right to vote, the right to petition, the freedom of association, the freedom of assembly and demonstration and the inviolability of the body. My group also believes that the modernisation of Article 13 of the Constitution is necessary and that the extension of telephone and telegraph secrecy to telecommunications secrecy is an appropriate choice. My group is also in favour of including the secrecy of modern telecommunications in the Constitution. My group would like to put a few questions to the Minister. Members of my group support the government's statement that the need to communicate privately in the digitised information society is unabated and requires constitutional protection. Communication must be confidential regardless of the means used. However, the present legislative proposal did not choose to include all traffic data, such as the name of the user, his IP address and his surf data, within the scope of Article 13 of the Constitution. The government confines itself to traffic data that can point to the content of the communication. However, my group believes that, within the framework of a more future-proof constitutional article, it should be borne in mind that the distinction between communication content and traffic data can no longer be made with modern means of communication, and perhaps certainly with future ones. My group therefore wonders whether, in view of the more difficult distinction to make in the future, consideration should be given to including all traffic data under the protection of Article 13. Can the Minister also comment on what is in practice opposed to doing so? In a democratic state governed by the rule of law, citizens must be able to trust that they can communicate freely and confidentially with each other, without fear of government listening or watching. In the existing Article 13 of the Constitution, breach of the confidentiality of letters is possible only by order of the court. However, the draft law before us also makes it possible to infringe the confidentiality of letters with the Minister's consent if this is necessary in the interests of national security. This is a significant change in the legal protection of citizens. My group is asking the Minister to comment on the government's choice not to leave the question of breaches of communication secrecy to the courts if national security is at stake, or at least not alone. My group also asks the Minister to go into the government's choice to allow the Commission to monitor the intelligence and security services only afterwards for breaches of the confidentiality of communications where the importance of national security is at stake. Is the government prepared to consider asking the CTIVD to supervise prior to any breach of the communication secret? Can the Minister provide for the possibility of an independent third-party review in any other way? In this context, it is important that the Government notes in the explanatory memorandum that the law will provide for a mandatory review by the Minister if the CTIVD considers that an authorisation granted by the Minister for the use of special powers is not in conformity with the law. My group awaits the Minister's answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. The purpose of this proposal is to extend the immunity of the letter, telephone and telegraph secret contained in the Constitution to all means of communication. The new Article 13 therefore refers to the right to respect for letter and telecommunications secrecy. The aim is to introduce technical and independent protection into the Constitution, which also covers the electronic means of communication. This is a modernisation of the text of the Constitution, the main question being why it took so long. Proposals for this have already been made at the end of the last century, followed by the report of the Committee on Fundamental Rights in the digital age, the Franks Commission, from the beginning of this century, and many other opinions, including the report of the Constitutional Commission of the States in November 2010. The proposals were endorsed by the cabinet and parliament on a regular basis. Finally, the discussion of the Rutte II cabinet proposal was delayed by the cabinet itself in 2014, and then adopted by the Lower House only after the March elections this year. This means that the second reading of this amendment of the Constitution in the Lower House can only take place after the next elections, which will normally take place in 2021, after which it will go back to this Chamber and could enter into force about 2022. All in all, this modernisation of Article 13 of the Constitution has lasted for a quarter of a century. We in the SP Group are certainly not in favour of hastily changing the Constitution, as sometimes happens in some other countries, but 25 years for a relatively small adjustment is the other extreme. Will the Minister once again reflect on this course of action? In addition to modernising Article 13 by introducing the concept of telecommunications, the Government's proposal also harmonises the level of protection of the confidentiality of various forms of communication. In the current text of the Constitution, confidentiality in letters should be broken only by judicial authorisation, but also in the case of telephones and telegraphs, in the interests of national security, in another way regulated by law. That means, in practice, with the Minister's permission. In the new text now before us, the last text applies to all communications. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers it logical that the same principles should apply to all forms of communication, but would have preferred that a judicial authorisation should have been required in all cases. Unfortunately, the House of Representatives rejected an amendment to that effect. For the SP Group, the fact that the new technology-independent wording reduces the level of protection of letter secrecy in the Constitution does not mean that this should also be done in the legislation. With the Council of State, my group sees no argument for violating the secret of letters, even if national security is at stake, without judicial authorization. We therefore assume that there is no intention on the part of the government to introduce such a legislative amendment after the Constitution has been amended. I would like to receive a positive reply from the Minister on this point. I look forward to the Minister's answer to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes, in principle, the amendment of Article 13 of the Constitution, which deals with letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. The digital age requires a new formulation of the respect and protection of the messages that people share and send to each other. High time, you'd say. The Road Traffic Act is no longer based on the stagecoach. We share the principle that this constitutional change should be formulated as future-proof as possible and independently of technology. Developments in the digital age are moving fast and no one can foresee new forms of information exchange in 5 or 10 years' time, let alone 25 years' time. However, we do have some pressing questions for the Minister. My group regrets that the fine concept of immunity is removed from Article 13. 'Inviolability' indicates a higher level of protection than the concept of'respect' already used in Article 10. The question to the Minister is what reason has been given for using the concept of "respect" instead of "inviolability." Has the Minister played a role in reducing the level of protection overall? What is more strange is the use of the word 'telecommunications'. This is almost again an outdated concept in today's digital world. The Internet of Things, where the fridge itself is apparently popular; Mr Engels has already mentioned the orders, but also new techniques such as near field communication, where communication is not tele but rather over ultra-short distance, indicate that concepts quickly age. Why has the legislator not chosen a term such as "electronic communication" or simply "communication along any technique or channel"? Finally, the most fundamental question. In the present Constitution, only the judge can waive the immunity of the letter. At the telephone and telegraph can be arranged by law who can do so. In the new text of the Constitution, the courts are no longer required to deal with national security issues. It will then be possible to determine by law who is authorised to waive the confidentiality of letters and telecommunications. There is no doubt that we will be discussing this next week at the Wiv. Can the Minister explain again why, unlike in the past, the concept of 'national security' has now been included in Article 13 and why the judge does not need to use it anymore? And what is the definition of "national security" under this law? What does this wording mean for future legislation? Are we not taking too great a risk that the secret of letters and telecommunications is too easily eroded under the pressure of the delusion of the day? How does this relate to Article 8 of the ECHR, in particular the case law of November 2012? These are a number of questions of a fundamental nature for us. We are therefore very interested in the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Extending the protection of letter secrecy to all means of telecommunications rather than just the telephone and telegraph is a logical and necessary development for the PVV Group. It was not included as such in the 1983 constitutional review. The Minister remarked on this in the House of Representatives, and I quote briefly: 'It was apparently hip in 1983 to include not only the letter secret in the Constitution, but also the telegraph'. The fact is, however, that telecommunications had progressed further in that year. The predecessor of the current internet, the so-called ARPANET, existed since the late 1960s. In fact, as an example: in the year in question, 1983, a feature film called WarGames appeared about the accidental hacking of NATO's nuclear arsenal via a telephone modem. With last week's hacks from the port of Rotterdam, among others, this problem is more topical than ever. But even 34 years ago, these telecommunications developments were already foreseeable, and not just in the film. It is therefore remarkable that these adjustments are only now taking place. Nevertheless: better late than never. The PVV Group will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. Letter secret is not only the title of Jan Terlouw's exciting boy book, but also an important classical fundamental right that is adapted to modern times with the present bill. As for many groups in this House, it is high time for my group to do so. The aim of the bill is to achieve technical independence in the protection of letter secrets. As mentioned earlier, this bill preceded several investigations, committees and reports. In 2000, the Committee on Fundamental Rights in the digital age, also referred to as the Franken Commission, already advised that fundamental rights should be formulated technology-independently. In 2010, the Thomassen State Commission wrote a report recommending that a number of fundamental rights be adapted to developments in information technology. Both committees agreed that the letter secret should be replaced by a provision guaranteeing the confidentiality of communications. The VVD Group also supports the need for this. She still has some questions she would like to put to the government. Article 13 of the Constitution, which we are talking about, is seen as a special feature of Article 10 of the Constitution: the article that gives the right to privacy. Article 10 of the Constitution can not only be invoked vis-à-vis the public authorities, but also has an explicit horizontal effect. The right to privacy also applies to citizens and businesses. What about the horizontal effect of the letter secret? According to the history of law, the letter secret is intended to be invoked against the government alone. This was confirmed by the government during the examination of the present bill in the Lower House. How sustainable is that, and is it still of this time? Should the horizontal operation of the letter secret not be taken for granted in view of all possible means of communication which are not, or are not, facilitated and exploited by the public authorities? I'd like a response from the government. Now Article 13 only works through in some laws. As far as I know, the Code of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure, the Postal Act and the Telecommunications Act. Assuming that there is no horizontal functioning of the almost modernised letter secret, should not the e-signatures Act be amended, for example, in the sense that a provision similar to that of Article 18.13 of the Telecommunications Act and Article 4 of the Postal Act be added? I'd like a response from the Minister. It is also striking that the draft law on generic digital infrastructure lacks such a provision. If we are allowed to classify the generic digital infrastructure Act as the successor or exponent of the Postal Act, it should also contain a provision that ensures the confidentiality of communications. There is no such provision in the draft law. Although this draft law is of course not now a subject of discussion, my group is curious whether the government has consciously chosen to do so or whether it has assumed that the letter secret would naturally apply to the application of the said law, and thus has horizontal effect, and therefore does not need to be explicitly regulated. I do not think that is the case, since the government has expressed itself so explicitly during the debate in the House of Representatives, particularly in the note on the report, but I would like this to be confirmed by the government. This brings me to the scope of modern technology-independent letter secret. For example, now that smart contracting becomes more and more infamous, the internet controls devices and a car automatically plans a maintenance service with a dealer, the question is whether such automated messages are also covered by the letter secret. Even brains can control robots. Why are metadata not covered by the letter secret? At least I have understood from the treatment in the Lower House. On the one hand, my group understands that they are part of the fundamental right to privacy, but on the other hand, the distinction between metadata and content is sometimes difficult, and that will become more difficult in the future. For example, they are the same metadata that control automated orders at a supermarket. In other words, traffic data is increasingly expressing or being intertwined with the content of the communication. Just think of a subject line in an email or the content of a text message; which is already very old-fashioned by the way. I would like a clear explanation from the government as to why metadata is not covered by the modernised letter secret. As I said earlier, my group believes that it is important and it is high time that the secret of letters was modernised. My group still has a number of questions which it would like to have answered. It also wonders whether the interpretation of the adapted letter secret is not too limited in view of the developments outlined above. I am referring in particular to the lack of horizontal operation and the exclusion of the metadata from the customized letter secret. My group looks forward with interest to the Government's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u9	Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, if he is able to reply directly. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. We are at an important moment here, namely at the first reading of a constitutional change. The article we are discussing is so short that it might be nice to read out the current article and then the version that is now before us. Article 13 of our Constitution states: The secret of letters shall be inviolable, except in the cases provided for by law, by order of the judge. The second paragraph states that telephone and telegraph secrecy shall be inviolable, except in cases determined by law or by the authority of those designated by law. This is therefore a limited list of the types of messages protected by the Constitution, namely the letter, the telephone and the telegraph. Then I don't mean the morning leaf, but one of those things that you can pass on signals, and a division into the way letters are treated versus the other means. The new Article 13 would read as follows: each person has the right to respect his letter and telecommunications secrecy. Paragraph 2: Limitation of this right is possible in the cases provided for by law with the authorisation of the court, or in the interests of national security by or with the permission of those designated by law. You would say: this is a simple change, which de facto means that we replace the term 'telegraph', which is outdated, with the much broader and more general technology independent concept of 'telecommunications'. But the trajectory has indeed taken a lot of time. In 1997, a bill was tabled, which was eventually stranded in the First Chamber, partly because the concept of communication was not sufficiently defined. According to the current proposal, it must be tied to a means. If it's not, it could include a conversation, or someone talking about the hedge with the neighbor. That was when the Franken Commission was set up, which clarified this point. Mrs Van Bijsterveld was right to give credits to that committee. The final government proposal received an operative part 6 of the Council of State, after which it was stranded. Our government started the legislative procedure in 2012, starting with sending the bill to the Lower House and now to the Upper House. I do hope that we will be able to adopt it at first reading during this period. It will then, of course, have to be retabled for second reading after the House has been dissolved. So there is indeed a very long history. During this period we have really taken all the steps in this direction, thanks, by the way, to the preliminary stage, which others have been working on for years. I would like to make a few general comments on how Article 13 relates to the protection of privacy in general and how it is enshrined in the Constitution. The essential articles are Articles 10 and 13. Article 10 protects and protects privacy. That is all that takes place within the privacy of people, their own homes or their own environment. Information may move from one privacy to another. It used to be a typical letter you put in the mail and delivered by the mailman somewhere else in private life. These days, of course, that can be an e-mail or a text. At the time that message is on its way, it is not in privacy, so that it is not covered by the protection of Article 10. It is then covered by Article 13, the letter secret, in which "letter" is meant generically. The reason we now have a proposal that provides sufficient limitation and clarity is that three clear criteria have been set for when something falls within the scope of Article 13 of the Constitution. I have already mentioned it: first of all, there must be a message or a message transmitted by means of a means from one privacy to another. There's got to be a cure. If that is not the case, when it comes to a conversation being bugged on a terrace, there might be a breach of privacy. This would be covered by Article 10 of the Constitution, but there would be no breach of letter secrecy or telecommunications secrecy. Secondly, the message must be entrusted to a third party. Because the Constitution aims to protect the citizen from the government, which could say to that third party: you are transferring information from person A to person B; can we have a look with you? In the old-fashioned image that would be the PTT or the postman, but that can of course also be Facebook or any other organization. So there has to be a third. This means that if I write a note for Mr Engels, which I will fold up and give him, it will not fall within the scope of the letter secret, because there is no third party in charge of it at the time. Thirdly, it must be addressed. A poster behind a window or a communication from a balcony are therefore not addressed: it is open messages, which are not covered by the letter secret. It really needs to go to someone or maybe more people. So it could be within that definition that someone gave his refrigerator the instruction to report to the liquor store when the genever is almost gone. If that is indeed done by e-mail, it is a means. The information is entrusted to the telecom provider where you have closed your email subscription and it is addressed to the liquor store. There is therefore no reason why that message should not be protected. At least it meets the criteria. I am always reluctant to elaborate too far on examples. In this example, it seems crucial to me that this is a message. The intention of the person sending the message must be to have that message sent. So when two devices communicate with each other, that doesn't automatically produce a message. But when I tell the refrigerator to call the liquor store when the gin is almost gone, it falls within the terms of Article 13 Constitution, as proposed in amended form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u11	The last example is permanent: the moment I send a message that, if there is no juniper bottle left in the fridge, there must be a message to the liquor store, that metadata, which I personally filled in in advance. In your example, such a message is covered by the letter secret. But that means that those metadata, which I personalized in advance, should also be covered by the letter secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u12	I'm not going with Mrs. Duthler thinking that would be metadata. Metadata are traffic records. In the old-fashioned system, for example, that would be the address on an envelope, or the sender, or a stamp showing that the letter in Deventer was made on the bus. But electronic versions of it also exist. When it comes to content, the intention of the Constitution is to include it in the letter secret. The announcement that the refrigerator is almost empty, so that a bottle of gin from the liquor store has to come is content and content, which is therefore covered by the letter secret. Those aren't metadata.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u13	If I look at the example of smart contracting, these are often fields to fill in in advance, the metadata, which the contractor fills in: in these cases, with this supplier, under these conditions I wish to conclude this contract. Then it is really about metadata, because otherwise there can be no form of smart contracting. Smart contracting exists at the grace of metadata. But I am talking about content. I do not think we will be able to come out of this debate, but perhaps it will be something to take on board at second reading when it comes to drawing up it. I would very much like to make that distinction clear, because we are moving very quickly towards a society in which we are going to communicate using metadata.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u14	I think Mrs Duthler and the government agree on the substance, but they obviously use the word'metadata' differently. The government's view is clear, I think. When it comes to content, to content information, that is a message, then that is a letter or then that is an order. This is content and is therefore covered by Article 13 of the Constitution. It's not a traffic report. Even when you automate or do that, it remains that you call your shopping list to the grocery store. That's content. It is also privacy sensitive. I deliberately mention gin, because I don't order gin at all. There may be people who do and don't want that to get out. That privacy needs to be protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u15	Finally, Mrs Duthler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u16	The point is that smart contracting no longer communicates content as an individual, as a citizen, but only fills in the metadata, which is communicated by the device.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u17	I think we're using the definition something else. I think it would be best for the debate if I were to confine myself to the interpretation as I am now presenting it. That is that a placed order is a substantive message, even when it is repeatedly placed and there is a pattern in it. It therefore falls within the scope of Article 13. I'm not trying to limit it here. It's completely covered. I have mentioned three criteria: it must be by means, it must be entrusted to a third party and it must be addressed. They replace a technical distinction made in the old Article 13 between a letter on the one hand and a telephone and telegraph message on the other. In the case of interruption, I have already said a few things about the aspect of traffic data. After this brief introduction, I would like to do the following. I would like to say a few words in the direction of Mrs Duthler, Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Engels on traffic data. Then I come to the horizontal effect. Then I would like to say something about national security, which Mr Engels and Mr Lintmeijer asked for. Then I'll walk by the remaining questions. First of all, I'm going to go to traffic records. Mr Sini first asked why the distinction is made at all. We have tried to stay as close as possible to the system of the Constitution in which it is the content of messages that deserve to be protected by the letter secret of Article 13. If you extend that to traffic data, it would have a major impact on practice, because every time it would require judicial authorisation to access traffic data, unless it was national security. I will return to that understanding separately. This would have major consequences for criminal investigations, for example. So there has been a practical reason. There has also been a logical reason, namely to align with the system of the law as we know it. I have just said a few words about the substance of the concept of traffic data in the event of an interruption. The content of the communication is what the sender only wants to send to the recipient. This should be distinguished from the data necessary for the transport of the message, such as an e-mail address and the data generated in the context of the transport. Traffic data is protected by Article 10, if they are personal data. This definition is really in line with what I just said. A shopping list, even if it is a smart shopping list, is, according to the definition we use, really what one wants to send to the recipient. If the traffic data is personal data, they are covered by Article 10 of the Constitution. Finally, there has been more extensive discussion in the House of Representatives about the case of content being included in what is normally intended for traffic data. Everyone knows the example of the e-mail in which someone in the field writes "re:" or "subject:" the message: boys, Friday afternoon drink on the lawn. That is actually content and is covered by Article 13, although it says in the field that it may be intended for traffic data. That is why this distinction has been made. It is perhaps appropriate to add that a message, when it is under the control of a third party as part of the transport, remains within the scope of Article 13 during and after the transport, in so far as it is still with the third person who transported it. When an e-mail is still somewhere in a mailbox with the provider, it remains under the protection of Article 13. In Dropbox, on the other hand, the following applies. That's a program where you can put material. You can say to others: if you want to watch the holiday movies, you can pick them up there. This is, in fact, an extension of the hard drive and is covered by the protection of privacy, Article 10, but not by traffic data and not by message traffic under Article 13. I have talked about the practical consequences of the other system in response to Mr Sini's questions. It would indeed mean that more judicial burdens should be imposed in the context of access to traffic data for the purposes of criminal jurisdiction. It would therefore also have consequences for national security. I'll get back to you on that. That is what I wanted to say on the subject of traffic data in response to the questions asked. The second subject is horizontal relations. I didn't want any doubt about that in the House of Representatives. The interpretation of the Constitution is, in my view, that the fundamental rights contained in it focus essentially on the government and its relationship with the citizen. It is therefore intended to have a vertical effect. This does not mean that communication secrecy does not have any meaning in the horizontal relationship. The Postal Act, the Personal Data Protection Act and the Telecommunications Act provide confidential communication by ordinary law of citizens in their relationship with other citizens or with business. In addition, the court in civil matters may, by means of Article 6:162 of the Civil Code, the so-called "unlawful action', take fundamental interests into consideration. Conditions or data from outside the Dutch territory can be transported. That does not alter the fact that a transporter operating within the Dutch jurisdiction must respect the Dutch letter and telecommunications secret. Mrs Duthler referred to the interest shown in the House of Representatives in digging out the horizontal functioning of the protection of privacy and messages. I believe it was Mr Koopmans of the VVD who then reported that he intended to take the initiative on that point. I have said that I would wholeheartedly support this initiative because I agree with the importance of the subject. The conclusion has been that it is important that this constitutional amendment does not focus on the horizontal effect, but that this is not a reason not to return to it in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u18	I'm gonna hear somethin'. If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: to give horizontal effect to these fundamental rights, further formal legislation is needed. The Minister referred to the Wbp, the Telecommunications Act and the Postal Act. This would therefore mean that, if this fundamental right is to have a horizontal effect, we would have to consider very carefully what laws would need to be adapted to allow the secret of letters to work in all those relationships where there is more and more a third, private person holding electronic communication from citizens. Well, that's basically what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u19	Even now, the Constitution protects the citizen from the government who would like to look in a message or letter. This proposal does not change that. That's the vertical effect. This is without prejudice to the government's view with Mrs Duthler that the horizontal protection of privacy is very important. Part of that is settled by ordinary law. It would probably be good, now that people, for example, by clicking "OK" share a lot of information with multinational companies, to see if the legal framework is sufficient to protect people from themselves and others at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u20	Does this mean that constitutional protection would actually be enough if my letter was sent through the PTT as a government organisation, but that the Constitution as such does not provide that protection and that you should regulate it by separate law if something is sent through a privatised organisation or through private providers as is customary today? The latter could be the consequence of the Minister's wording that the Constitution only ensures the protection of the citizen against the government that would want to break into this fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u21	It means that no one, not even the government, may have access to a letter that someone sends unless a court ruling is based on it. That is simply stated in the current law and it does not change on that point either. It protects from the government that says, "Let's see what kind of message that is." In addition, there are laws that do not follow from the Constitution, but they do exist and they apply equally naturally to protect citizens from each other. I also referred to a number of articles in the Civil Code that regulate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u22	If I understand the Minister correctly, he says: the letter secret now has vertical effect, namely against the government, and it would be good to at least examine whether that vertical effect should be extended to private providers such as Facebook, WhatsApp and so on, in order to actually achieve that horizontal effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u23	The constitutional letter secret, as laid down in Article 13 of the current Constitution and perhaps later in the amended version of Article 13, has vertical effect. This is without prejudice to the fact that the horizontal protection of privacy exists by ordinary law. That is without prejudice to the fact that it might be a good thing, I think that this would be a good thing, and that we should reconsider whether it is adequately regulated in the ordinary law now that people constantly click on "okay" and often cannot get many services from companies if they do not click on "okay" and are therefore almost forced to share all kinds of information. That is what I wanted to say about the horizontal effect. I come to speak about the concept of 'national security'. Mr Lintmeijer and Mr Engels have asked about this. Among others, Mr Engels referred to the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. We're gonna take care of it here next week. I very much appreciate that you have managed to find room for that in your full agenda. With your permission, I would like to conduct the discussion on the role of the CTIVD, the supervisor, in the new legal regime when dealing with that bill. Relevant for today's debate is that the legislative amendment that is now before us leaves room for access to messages in the interests of national security by or with the permission of those designated by the law. Compared to the current law, I have to be very clear about that. At present, the classic letter is subject to paragraph 1 of the current article of the Constitution, which states that the secret of the letter is inviolable except by order of the court, which must also be determined by law. The same applies now to the intelligence and security services. Not many letters are sent, but if a letter is sent once and if the security services want to have access to it, they must now have the permission of the judge. The numbers are very low, but one could say that constitutional protection for those cases is slightly reduced, because it is allowed in the interests of national security to do so, as long as it is done with the authorisation of the person designated by law. We will see next week when we consider the new Intelligence and Security Services Act that this cannot be a single authorisation, but that a double test is put on it. On the other hand, the current Constitution does not protect most of the messages you are sending at all, because they are not covered by letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy. After all, these are texts, apps or e-mails. They are all given full constitutional protection under the new regime, including the fact that it requires a judicial test, unless it is covered by national security, because then the legal regime as stated, for example, in the Intelligence and Security Services Act will apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u24	The minister says our texts aren't protected right now, and they will be. That is good, but the legislator can also opt for the higher level of protection that is now provided for in the letter, in the new law also for text messages and all that more they apply. But that's not what he chooses. Why should the Minister not choose to take that higher level of protection as a starting point instead of the reduced level of protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u25	This would lead to a huge increase in judicial tests in relation to current practice, because the work of the security services is mainly focused on what is happening over the Internet, through chat groups, forums and what is more. If all this were to be reviewed by the courts at a time, it would be a very large and very radical change in relation to current practice, with significant budgetary consequences as well. For, once again, that particular procedure for breaking a letter applies now only when it is really an envelope with a letter in it. I am not talking about operational data in public, but it seems clear to me that the number of times access to a letter is not very high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u26	With all due respect, but it's too much work, I don't really think it's an argument. There used to be a lot of letters and that was a lot of work. In view of the fact that this is a level of protection in principle, my group does not find the argument that it is a great deal of work if we are to do so convincing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u27	Well, okay. Next week, we'll deal with the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. I hope to convince Mr Lintmeijer that this can be done in the interests of safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u28	The Minister has just referred a few times to the discussion we are about to have next week on the new Intelligence and Security Services Act, but I assume that this new law is entirely in line with the current Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u29	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u30	After all, it will take about five years before the proposal we are debating becomes a Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u31	Absolutely. The crux of next week's proposal is that supervision and control are increasing and, on the other hand, that the bulk yarn of metadata is also allowed when it is not done via the ether but via cable. However, this is within the limits of the Constitution, even as it is now, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u32	I assume the Minister is done with this point. He hasn't answered one of my questions yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u33	That's what I'm getting at. The question was whether the government intends to remove the obligation from ordinary law if the constitutional duty disappears to obtain judicial permission to open letters. It is no longer necessary, after all, for constitutional reasons. That is not the intention of the government, but we must realise that it still has to be adopted at second reading. I read in the newspaper that a coalition government is now being formed that may have a long life. Then it will take another four years for a new Lower House to be elected. In that sense, therefore, it is not very relevant what I am promising on this point, but in fact the answer is that the government has no intention of changing the law on this point. Once again, it could not be done until this amendment of the Constitution was adopted at second reading. So much for my answer on the horizontal effect. I would like to return to the concept of national security. We have taken this one-on-one from the ECHR and the practice of justice. The ECHR has clarified the concept. In any case, this may be the case in the case of breaches of state secrets and military secrets, calls for the use of force, the pursuit of terrorist activities and publication of writings that could damage the functioning of a country's state security. There are libraries about them, but for the sake of short, I would like to refer to the case law and the ECHR as regards the definition. The intended use on the part of the government is to make it fully synonymous with that use of the definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u34	By judgment of November 2012, the European Court of Justice said, in my mind, that the judge should really be involved when it comes to individual cases. I'll just say it in my own non-legal words. That case-law is exactly what it says: bring that judge in now, especially if you want to make an infringement in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u35	Yes, but I can and should not now respond to individual cases. I refer only to the fact that national security is defined as it is done by the ECHR and by legal practice. Mr Lintmeijer asked why we do not say 'electronic communication' or 'communication through any channel'. In our view, the concept of 'telecommunications' is wider than 'electronic communications', which has a specific meaning in the Telecommunications Act. As has also been confirmed in the answer to Mr Engels' question, the government gives a broad, literal explanation to 'telecommunications', namely 'distance communication'. However, it must be carried out by means and entrusted to third parties to fall within the scope of Article 13. We believe that this has made it as future-proof as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u36	Just to reduce the second term. I understand very well what the Minister said. As I said in the first term, I can understand why the concept of telecommunications has been chosen. It is precisely in order to give greater strength to the future that I have asked for something more to be said, in terms of creating legal history, here and now in the parliamentary debate, in order to provide a handle on what forms of communication might fall under the concept of telecommunications. What my group wants is to use the word 'communication'. We would then like to grant immunity to any form of communication. You can't do that right now. We can't change it now either. But a little more clarity on the part of the government as to how broad the concept of telecommunications could be interpreted would be very welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u37	I will do my best and at the same time try not to fall into the trap of my predecessors, who introduced the concept of telegraph secrecy, precisely to be future-proof and to add a modern means. It is always tempting to fall back into examples. I have discussed with my lawyers the example of what we used to do with such a can with a string on it: would that be covered by telecommunications? We have concluded that this concerns the protection of privacy. You can discuss it or be communicated by means, but at least it is not entrusted to a third party. It does not therefore fall within the scope of letter secrecy or telecommunications secrecy. It's like whispering or yelling. I come back to these three criteria every time: it must be communication by means, it must be entrusted to someone, a third, and it must be addressed communication. I've just been tempted to the example of the fridge, which gave up the gin. I have said that I think that this ultimately meets the criteria. It's tempting to give more examples, but you don't know exactly how people communicate with each other in ten years' time. I'm going as far as I think I can go now. That was indeed Mr Engels' first question, which dealt with examples and the limits of telecommunications. We agree that you need to explain it widely; maybe we can find each other there. Let that be clear for the history of law. It is not the intention of the cabinet to say: this is what we are protecting now; if a new technique occurs, it is not one of them. No, it's supposed to be conceptual. As soon as something moves from one privacy to another through a means and under the control of a third party, it falls within the scope of Article 13 of the Constitution. Computer crime rests with V and J and does not fall within the scope of the letter secret, although there may be a overlap. Mr. Sini asked for traffic records. I have gone into this in detail. Mr Sini also asked about the role of the CTIVD. Next week we will be discussing this in greater detail. This will include the question of whether the CTIVD should give prior or ex post consent or monitor. I have just answered Mr Köhler's question about the proposed amendment of the law when he interrupted. Mr Lintmeijer asked whether the use of the word "inviolability" instead of "respect" was intended to give it a different colour of sound. That is not the case. At least that's not the way it's supposed to be. Mr Van Hattem supported the proposal, for which he thanked. Ms Duthler asked about the GDI and said it would be the successor to the Postal Act. The relevant legislative proposal will be dealt with. This could be discussed in greater detail. I would not like to refer to the GDI as such. We can always look at whether enough is being done, including in the area of privacy protection, when dealing with the legislative proposal, which is still under consultation. Otherwise, we can always signal that at the treatment in the Second and First Chambers. Mr. Chairman. I believe I have answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u38	Thank you. In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I call Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I accidentally omitted an important piece of my text, namely that I made the contribution on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Here's what I'm gonna do about it. I'm gonna fix that omission. On behalf of both groups, the CDA and Christian Union groups, I would like to thank the Minister for his reflection on the different dimensions of the newly proposed Article 13 and in particular for his reflections on the relationship between Article 10 of the Constitution and Article 13. Article 10 regulates privacy, including communication, even if it is electronic. Article 13 refers to telecommunications, to tele communications. I would also like to thank him in particular for considering the horizontal effect of the new proposed Article 13. Just on that cutting surface, I have one small question. By way of example, the Minister addressed the regime that applies when someone pushes an O.R. button on the internet and gets information from a commercial service provider via that route. If I have understood the Minister correctly, he said that this is not covered by Article 13 because it is horizontal. I can only very well imagine that this is covered by Article 10 of the Constitution, in particular its second paragraph, which includes the horizontal relationship. The law must then lay down rules according to the Constitution. These include the position of private parties. I'm very curious to see if the Minister can confirm that. I have no further supplementary questions. I have already expressed the agreement of both groups to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u40	Madam President. You will understand that I am still trying to catch up with my colleague Mr Van Bijsterveld's opening line, in which she clearly established a political connection with the Christian Union group. The political importance of that remark will not have escaped anyone here! I thank the Minister for his frank answer. I can tell him that where we talked about the location of traffic data in the story about the relationship between Article 10 and Article 13 of the Constitution, my group is convinced. The Minister's reaction that he recognizes where the problem lies with regard to horizontal operation is clear. We can't solve that here and now in the First Chamber. That's obvious, too. It is a good signal if it is indicated from the government's point of view that when there is initiative legislation on this issue to strengthen it, the government will not oppose it in advance. As far as supervision is concerned, I would have liked to know a little more fundamentally at what point in time a certain form of supervision is of high quality. Is that always the judicial review or can that also be another form of independent supervision indicated by the legislator? We are going to talk about this much more fundamentally next week. It would be very unwise for me to preach my group chairman's contribution now, because I would also like to join for two more years. The last point is important: the interpretation and interpretation of the concept of telecommunications. My hope was that, in the context of the creation of legal history, we would be able to offer a little more practical guidance here. Moreover, I do not think that you should always listen to lawyers, but very often you should. I certainly understand that they are as advisors cautious; so would I have been. However, to the extent that the Minister has said that I repeat the concept of telecommunications in the most conceptual sense possible, I believe that this is already a signal to practice: if this proposal is implemented at second reading, then it is not the intention to close down a development. That would not be good, given how technological developments are going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u41	Do you think about your time, Mr. Engels?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u42	Yeah, I can close with that. Fortunately, you were just ahead of me again. I always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u43	Yes, you've been over your time for 1 minute and 38 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u44	Mr President, I look at you in a humble manner and I promise to improve, but I see that the Minister is in a state of tension and I have to inform him that I will advise my group to accept the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u45	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his response. I'd like to ask him two more questions. By the way, I intend to advise my group to support the legislative proposal. The Minister indicated that one of the objections to judicial authorisation could be that the number of applications for judicial authorisation would increase enormously. Is the Minister able to give an estimate of this? I would also ask the Minister whether he is prepared to monitor and evaluate the operation in practice over the next two years and to inform the Chamber, also in view of the fact that we now do not know how telecommunications and, above all, the role of traffic data will develop in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. His reflection on the way things are going, I asked for a reflection over a period of 25 years. In my view, it was a little thin, but I don't think it makes any sense to go into that now. My group also feels that it would be useful to discuss with the government, preferably a missionary government, how we, as a constitutionalist, deal in full with constitutional changes, but that will come next time. My group is basically in favour of this proposal to modernise Article 13, but we see less constitutional protection of letter secrecy as a negative point. The Minister stated that the government had no intention of reducing the protection of the secret of letters in the law, but that it did alleviate this point of pain. My group will involve this in its deliberations on whether it will vote for or against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. Since we are writing legal history here, let me just say that it is a good thing that the Minister has once again indicated that the concepts of 'inviolability' and'respect' are in line and that there should be no gradation of difference. If we agree, I am reassured on that point. It is also good that the Minister wants to give the concept of 'telecommunications' a broad meaning, because the word 'tele' actually means 'far' in practice. I interpret this in such a way that short communication distances, which we exchange via bluetooth, NFC and what it is all called, are not limited by this interpretation of the term 'telecommunications', regardless of whether the three steps defined by the Minister should all be included. My final point is that the judge is less likely to be able to infringe respect. That is still a point for our group. I understand that in individual legislation, like next week at the Wiv, we will discuss this with each other. I am taking this point with me to my group to review it in the context of this draft Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u48	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his first-term response. My group would be very grateful if the Minister's answers to my group's questions could be strengthened. I'll start with traffic records. We have already discussed the significance of the term "metadata," particularly in the context of the Internet of Things, smart contracting and perhaps also augmented human being, which is increasingly interwoven with machines. The Minister places the term "metadata" very clearly in relation to the content of the messages, which someone wishes to convey to the addressee. In my group's view, the sharp distinction made by the Minister is certainly not sustainable in the future. My group continues to find this distinction very difficult and would regret it if this legislative proposal, with the technological developments that are going to come, were already to close down the meaning of the letter secret by means of this limited explanation. I hope that the Minister will clarify this a little bit more, and that he will also give confidence that he does not want to record that sharp distinction at the moment. This would, after all, undermine the future stability and the technology-independent letter secret that we are so keen to achieve. So we would like to hear a little flexibility in the interpretation of the term'metadata'. In fact, therefore, we have a very specific question: does the Minister think it is conceivable that metadata will not be covered by the letter secret in the future? I'm gonna make it a little easy. Then there is the distinction between privacy law and letter secret. My group very much agrees with the Minister that the distinction between Article 10, which protects privacy, and Article 13 on letter secrecy, is fading. The Minister indicated that the content of whatsapples and text messages is protected by privacy law and now also by letter secret. No, the Minister indicated that that content is protected by the letter secret, but that content is already protected by privacy law. The right to privacy also has a horizontal effect. In my group's view, this would also be an argument for the creation of this horizontal operation of the secret of letters in any case. That too is what my group is so cautious about, because it is really high time we modernised the secret of letters. My group would very much appreciate such a commitment. As I said, my group thinks it is high time to modernise the secret of letters. It's gonna stay that way. However, my group hopes that the Minister will give answers in the second term, in the sense that the explanation of the secret of letters will not be locked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u49	I ask the Minister if he has the opportunity to answer directly. Minister, I'm gonna take a look at your head. Do you nod? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u50	Mr. Chairman. Having heard the second term of the Chamber, I believe that, if the political groups follow their spokesmen, we will indeed take an important step and that the path that was launched in 1997 will lead to the adoption at first reading of an amendment to Article 13 of the Constitution. Mr Köhler thought my reflection on the course of time was a little lean. That's true, but I meant that as modesty. When I arrived, I started a legislative note. Then I made the law and defended it in the Lower House and now in the Upper Chamber. I have done all that in one cabinet period, so I did not think it appropriate to ask why my predecessors could not have done that for 20 years. That is why I did not go into that further. Honestly, it would be impolite to claim that. I have already mentioned, for example, Mr Franken, who has done an extraordinary amount of enlightening work by saying that there is only letter secrecy when it is done by means of a means and by means of a third party. We are therefore on the shoulders of our predecessors in this respect. They could have made it this far during this period. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked a question about Rule 10. The short answer to that question is yes. Article 10 (2) and (3) contain a regulation contract which also covers horizontal relations. Mr Engels thought my answer was frank. I hope he wasn't referring to the gin. Again, that was not a private example but, on the contrary, just something that came to mind. As regards the further consideration of the horizontal functioning of privacy, I made a commitment in the House of Representatives, which I would also like to make here. If there are initiatives on this point, I will not only consider them benevolent but also support them wherever possible. I think it's useful and necessary to do that. I'll be back for surveillance next week. We agree, I believe, that Article 13 should be interpreted broadly and that it is not the intention to close it now. On the contrary, it is precisely the intention to put an end to the technical distinction, which actually made the article obsolete. Mr Sini asked if I could mention numbers. This was, of course, particularly about the number of times that special resources are deployed by the secret services. That is a long discussion, but the short answer is that I cannot mention those numbers. We calculate that under operational information and we never actually share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u51	Mr. Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u52	...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u53	You need to press the button.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u54	Oh, yeah. I'm still a bridge peeper in this house, Chairman. In particular, I asked about the number of times a judicial authorisation was required, not the security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u55	I can't provide that information right now. If that information is relevant to Mr Sini's opinion, I should still have to respond in writing, but it is also largely outside the scope of BZK, because it is partly in the V and J area. Mr Sini also asked if we could evaluate the law, but this is about an intention to amend the Constitution. I would therefore ask him to keep that question until the amendment of the Constitution is before us at second reading. I would imagine that it would be appropriate at that time to ask for agreements on the timing of the impact assessment. I have answered Mr Köhler's question. Mr Lintmeijer mentioned bluetooth for a moment. That is indeed a subject that I am trying to stay away from, because it is typically a technical development of, say, the last ten years. Once you move around in those kinds of examples of "wifi," "near field" cards and you start wondering if they are telecommunications or not, you're going to lock yourself in as a constitutionr, also in terms of future interpretation. That is a bridge to my answer from Mrs Duthler, but before I go there, I say that we will be discussing the Wiv and the role of the judge next week. I feel that Mrs Duthler and I could understand each other even better, because I think we are talking about the same thing, namely that we do not want to close the case. I shall read out the definition I have given again: the content of communication, so that which falls within the scope of Article 13, is what the sender only wants to communicate to the addressee. So that's very wide, very broad. Even if something is in the subject line of an email, it is the content of communication. So that all falls under the protection of the letter secret. That is also in line with the intention of the classic letter secret. Traffic data is also constitutionally protected, as far as personal data are concerned. Then they fall within the scope of Article 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u56	Perhaps it is good to hold on to what it is and not to look at what it is not, because we are not getting out of it. If we stick to the definition of content, my group is very satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u57	If Mrs Duthler's group is entirely satisfied on that point, so am I. That is exactly what I am trying to do with this proposal. I believe that this is precisely the flexibility to indicate new technical developments in the context of this distinction. Mr President, I believe that I have answered all the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u58	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-eerstekamer-5.u59	I shall now suspend the sitting because there are committee meetings.
