ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment to the Upper House. May I ask Members to leave the Chamber without much extra noise? Could you please keep your voice down on the left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary of State. We are discussing today the adoption of the Paris agreement on climate change in item No. 34589. It is an important issue, but it does not need to be discussed for long as far as the CDA Group is concerned. It is important, because we all know that the future of the planet is a relevant topic worldwide. We are talking about greenhouse gas emissions, about CO emissions. When I say that it is important for the future of this planet, I also, of course, talk about the future of our children and grandchildren in the broadest sense. In CDA terminology, we have an understanding for that that many of you undoubtedly know, namely stewardship. Over the past few years and decades, a great deal of attention has been called for on this issue. If you look at the consequences of climate change, it can only be that, even if you can judge differently about the extent to which climate change is involved and the extent to which people have an influence on what is going on with their activities. We have no choice but to express our broad concern about this. I draw attention to developments in developing countries and growing economies. I call Bangladesh, I call China and India. At the same time, you can see the threat posed by the rise in water levels, for example, to those countries. We can regularly witness this through the media. Then you can draw only one conclusion: that would be extremely unfortunate and unfortunate. Wherever possible, we should counter these negative developments, which have a major impact on economic developments. I can also point out what is happening in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is a country that is like no other country below sea level. If we do not continue to invest here and pay attention to our dikes and quays in the most general sense, we know that we would wrongly close our eyes to a problem facing our children and grandchildren. In short, it is a global issue. A global problem requires a global approach. That is why the CDA Group has said once again that it is good that a number of important steps were taken in Paris in December 2015. As my colleague Agnes Mulder in the House of Representatives said during the debate, the Netherlands itself is too small and therefore a global approach is needed to an agreement that can only be concluded globally. It needs global support. That it is not self-evident that steps are taken, we hear and read almost daily. The supporting surface is extremely important. It should be one of the key issues in the further development of the agreements reached in Paris. Portage is important. We need to look not only at citizens and businesses at national level, but also at acceptance between countries. We know that, on the basis of the Paris agreements, there are different speeds for action, distinguishing between the developed countries on the one hand and the less developed or developing countries on the other. There are rightly differences in phasing. It is also right that those countries which can count themselves among the more developed nations of this world have made a significant financial commitment, precisely to reach out to those countries that are unable to do so. This applies not only to finance, think of the climate fund, but also to technological know-how and so on in the countries that do not have it. The CDA considers this to be a fair agreement which rightly requires a great deal of attention. At the same time, I say that there is another risk, apart from acceptance, that there is definitely a need to be appointed. I mentioned the support between the countries, but the other risk could, of course, be of a more legal nature. I wonder how the Secretary of State will react to that. Are the agreements made in a general sense sustainable? Are they debatable? Are they enforceable? In short, the consequences of legal procedures that countries could take and the steps they could take are not yet fully clear to us. US President Trump did not say very long ago that he would like to put a line through the main lines of the Paris climate agreement, inter alia because he wonders whether this is the solution that should be chosen worldwide. As far as we are concerned, this also demonstrates the vulnerability of international cooperation. The question is whether the agreements made in Paris will be sustainable in the event of the abolition of American aid, which will be implemented within two years. Are the stated objectives of limiting climate change in the Paris agreements still sustainable, if the Americans, and perhaps other countries, fail to do so? The CDA would regret that, by the way. We are curious about the consequences if this 55% global reduction, which is required as a minimum, is not achieved. What actions are being taken by the Netherlands? Then it is not so much the Netherlands sec, I say to the Secretary of State, because the Netherlands is a small country and we need a global approach. What concrete steps have been taken by the European Union? I think it is good to stress that the CDA Group attaches great importance to doing so collectively and that the Netherlands is not going through too much of an all-inch. I say this because there were reports last week that the Secretary of State said that the disappearance of US aid might lead to financial problems for the IPCC climate panel. In our view, it is not possible for a country or a few countries to fill the gaps. When I talk about financing the IPCC, perhaps I am talking more about financing the climate fund, which will go to almost 100 billion. The national states must all make an important effort to put that money on the table. If a major contributor fails, it cannot be picked up by a single Member State of the Union, but it will need global attention. We are curious whether the Secretary of State can indicate what steps have been taken and what the scenario looks like. It is extremely important that, in addition to acceptance, transparency is also at the heart of citizens and businesses to know what is happening. Only then will it be possible to take those steps that we should take. Without support, without support from civil society, without citizens and businesses, it will not work. Last Friday I visited a Frisian dairy farmer with a number of colleagues. There we heard that the entrepreneur also said that he would like to take steps, but that he should know that there is a level playing field, both in the Netherlands and abroad, starting within the European Union, and that he should also be able to count on reliable and sustainable government policies in what we do. If there is consistency, the Paris Convention on Climate Change is, as far as it is concerned, not a threat but perhaps even a challenge. Many companies will gladly underline this with him. Mr. Chairman. That is what I want to say on behalf of the CDA Group. You can assume from me that the CDA Group is in favour of ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u3	I am pleased to hear that the CDA Group fully supports this agreement and says that it is extremely important to develop a climate approach for the future. It is now clear that the agreement we made in Europe, namely to achieve 40% CO reduction by 2030, is not enough to meet the Paris targets, because then we need to sit well below 2°C and preferably reach a maximum of 1.5°C. On this basis, is the CDA prepared to strengthen the current European policy, but also the Dutch policy, aimed at 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u4	These are, of course, the questions to be expected, especially from GroenLinks. Let me at least say this. As far as I have been able to follow the media, I understand that this is one of the important issues in the attempt to create a new cabinet during the information period. Then it is a pity to note that a party sitting at the table, but not sitting at the table anymore, at least I understand, is asking that question. I would like to advise you to wait for the formation of a new cabinet. In particular, leave this on the negotiating table. I heard Minister Kamp on the radio this morning say that a number of new steps are being taken nationally. I heard your colleague Mrs Van Tongeren say via Radio 1's microphone that she does not think that is enough. I think that the current cabinet is just about to move on to this point, or to another cabinet, when it comes to implementing the plan of action for the Paris Climate Treaty. That is also what the Secretary of State pointed out a few weeks ago, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u5	Major European legislation is currently being negotiated in Europe, in the Environment Council and in the Energy Council, which is precisely this point, so the present outgoing cabinet must take a stand on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u6	Yeah, but you know...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u7	My question is to be consistent. If you fully support this agreement, are you prepared to do what is necessary for this agreement and thus strengthen the current policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u8	I have said, and I repeat, that the next cabinet is going to have to do with the implementation of the agreement. Of course, steps have already been taken. I pointed out what the Minister for Economic Affairs announced today about whether or not new buildings should be linked to natural gas. I believe that it is mainly up to the next cabinet to implement the Paris agreements. That cabinet will also provide support in both chambers, I presume. In this respect, I am not going to run from this place to the negotiators, where your party is unfortunately no longer present. I would like to leave it to the cabinet and the negotiators to further elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u9	Finally, a question. If we ratify this treaty today, or formally next week, do you think that this will lead to the obligation to comply with the agreements we make in this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u10	Yeah, but there's no discussion about that. We're talking about a treaty with an operation that runs until 2050, I think. The pace of action may vary from one Member State to another. That is mainly up to the next government and the Chambers. I also said that, as far as we are concerned, we need to ensure that the level playing field is maintained at national and international level. I am not going to say what needs to be done, because that is up to the cabinet, but of course I think that the final objective that has been set is the point on the horizon that we are going to stick to, as I said in my introductory remarks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u11	Thank you, Mr Atsma. I shall give the floor to Mr Van der Sluijs, but only after I have made the bell ring, because everyone will know that there is a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen in the gallery. Mr Atsma mentioned transparency and support. I agree, however, that must be done on the basis of good information. I am going to give the Members of Parliament some ideas and I hope that they will be inspired by them in the coming week and that this will affect their voting behaviour next week. Today we are having a debate on the ratification of the Paris Convention on Climate Change. According to some, this is a unique opportunity to save the world from destruction, according to others, and under this I count our PVV group, this is a unique opportunity to stop the hoax around the climate, namely by not ratifying it. Ratification of the Paris agreement means that the Netherlands is committed to goals achieved on the basis of a so-called scientific consensus. I am not a scientist myself, but I do not have to tell you that the truthfulness of scientific theories is not achieved by means of a show of hands. A century ago, the German Alfred Wegener proved this with his theory about the continent shift. According to his theory, all continents had once belonged to one great continent. In the geological world the striking similarities in layers on both sides of the oceans were put aside as chance and the theory of continent shift was misguided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u13	The sound's dropping, but the sound system's on. Maybe someone's got their fingers on the buttons. The tricky thing is that you can't be interrupted, but now the power's going out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u14	I'm just gonna move on. We're not gonna let them drive us crazy. Only in the 1970s did research of the seabed on both sides of the Mid-Atlantic Back show that the theory of plate tectonics was actually very likely. A mechanism was also found that could be held responsible for these shifts, namely the convection currents in the mantle. When radioactive substances break up, heat is released in the interior of the earth, which is drained out. There are many scientists whose work was initially wronged. I mention Wegener, because his theory has had such an enormous impact on our knowledge about the cohesion of climate and geology. We now know that the CO content in the air has fluctuated very strongly over the last millions of years. It has been much lower, but also up to 200 times higher. It was warmer with lower CO concentrations than it is now. It was colder with higher CO concentrations than it is now. We also know where that carbon is now stored: in seawater, but especially in limestone. Storage in fossil fuels is only a tiny fraction of limestone storage. On time scales of millions of years, the amount of volcanic CO emissions caused by plate tectonics determines how much CO is in the atmosphere. We also know that the sea level has fluctuated. That was 200 meters higher once. We also know why this is now so much lower: the water is now colder and therefore shrunk, but also geological activities have made the oceans much deeper than during those high sea levels. The last 2,000 years before the industrial revolution, according to Al Gore and the IPCC, the share of COin in the air was quite constant, approximately 280 parts per million (ppm). However, the climate was not stable during that period. We have, in our view, had extremely cold periods, including in the seventeenth century, and we have had very warm periods, in the Middle Ages, in which the glaciers have melted farther than is currently the case. In the last 150 years, the CO content has increased to about 400 ppm. But also in those 150 years we had periods when the temperature rose and periods when the temperature dropped. For example, in the period from 1945 to 1975, the average temperature decreased. In the seventies of the last century, science was even convinced that there was a new ice age coming. There was scientific consensus: there was a new ice age coming. Many here in this house are the age they'll remember. After that, the temperature started to rise again over a few decades, but over the last nineteen years it has been quite stable, with two El Nino peaks. As mentioned above, CO accounts for only 0.04%, or 400 ppm, of the atmosphere. The human part of it is limited. Some scientists believe that additional uptake of CO, among other things by the greening earth, is only 3% to 4%. In the most alarming case, therefore, the proportion of CO produced by man in the atmosphere is 0.016%. That 0.016% is now going to take the world hard through Paris. The IPCC assumes that only, or almost exclusively, man is responsible for global warming. After humanity has first fixed the problem of acid rain and the associated dying forests and then the hole in the ozone layer, there is no longer any need to address a new global problem. However, the claim in the summary for policy makers of the latest IPCC report that the warming after 1950 was caused by half by human causes with 95% certainty is not based on statistics, but determined by hands-on IPCCs who have been carefully selected for publications in line with the IPCC's political summaries. By the way, there is a special correlation between global warming or climate change, as it is called nowadays because of a lack of warming-up, and acid rain. That correlation is called Ed Nijpels. Whatever we would do in the 1980s, it wouldn't matter anymore, 80% of our forests would disappear. The forests would all die of acid rain. In this sense, it is logical that he should now be placed in front of the cart of this alarmist agenda. After all, he wasn't suffocated in his first hoax. When dealing with the problems raised by the Paris agreement, all the stops are really going to be lifted. But let's first look at recent developments. Let's start in the Netherlands, with the publication of 30 May last of the Central Bureau of Statistics. We read that the share of renewable energy in 2016 is 5.9%. This share is almost the same as in the previous year, when 5.8% of total energy consumption came from renewable sources. Moreover, the vast majority of renewable energy comes from biomass and not from wind. Globally, three quarters of renewable energy is biomass. That's mostly wood. Forests are being harvested on a large scale for this purpose. How durable is that? Mr President, I am now at half my speech, so I hope I can manage with time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u15	That's right. You are now at 10 minutes and 59 seconds, while you have given up 20 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u16	Perfect! Total energy consumption in the Netherlands increased by almost 4% compared to 2015 to 2119 petajoule (PJ). As total energy consumption has increased, the increase in renewable energy consumption has hardly led to a higher share of total energy consumption, despite all billions of euros of subsidy. The alarming increase in total energy consumption is, of course, due to the growth of the economy, but also, let us not forget, to the growth of the population through immigration. In between, a question to the Secretary of State. How do these CBS figures relate to its response of 30 May last, indicating that gross final consumption will decrease in the coming years to PJ 2047 in 2020, while the latest figures show an increase? What about the worldwide consumption of renewable energy? If you have to believe messages from the Dutch government, the public service and the Dutch newspapers, then everyone is already placing windmills and we are lagging behind. The reality is that in 2014, the last year for which global figures are known, 0.46% of final wind energy use worldwide was completed 0%. Solar and tidal energy together account for 0.35%. Global energy consumption has increased by 2% per year over the last 40 years. If we take the growth over the last known year, namely from 2013 to 2014, then that was 2,000 TWh (terawattures). If we only have to keep up with this growth with windmills, we have to build 350,000 windmills per year from 2 MW (megawatt) windmills. That is one and a half times as much as what has been built in its entirety since governments have been pouring tax money into this unfathomable depth since the beginning of this century. I repeat: 350,000 windmills a year. Another good thing: for the construction of 350 000 windmills a year you need half the EU's annual production of coal in the blast furnaces. An important cause of energy consumption growth is simply the steady growth of the world's population, especially in the non-western world, but also in the western world because of mass immigration. I ask the Secretary of State: if the increase in energy consumption is such a problem, why do we never hear about it? I'd like a concrete answer. The Secretary of State came up with the following information in response to PVV questions. Will you do the math? Energy consumption in the Netherlands will go down to 2.047 petajoule in 2020. As far as we are concerned, this is not realistic, but what if it is? Then the eligible part will be 126 petajoule; including Borssele, so if it's any good. Is it true that according to the State Secretary's own figures, the share of eligible energy in 2020 is only a fraction more than 6%? And is it true that in 2012 there was already a small 5% of so-called renewable energy, which means that an increase of 1.4% in renewable energy costs 37 billion in eight years? The 37 billion is or will be made available until 2020. Is it true that according to the Secretary of State's own figures, the energy agreement costs the sweet sum of 37.7 billion by 2020 for 1.43% extra renewable energy? That is what the Secretary of State's answers to our questions say. Can she confirm her own figures again? Then we can calculate what it means to go to the 25% Urgenda objective, not to mention Paris. And let us not take into account the fact that neither biomass, i.e. the production of trees, nor windmills, makes the least or least contribution to reducing emissions. They're just fictional maths. Back to Paris. I ask the Secretary of State, what is the promise of this agreement? Does it mean that the temperature increase of the earth is limited to 2°C, as was extensively splashed when the agreement was signed? How is it that, according to the United Nations' own climate models, the effect is only 0.05°C in the year 2100? Is it true that predecessor Al Gore recently said at Fox News that the climate agreement has no effect at all on the so-called climate problem, but that it is an important signal? Bloomberg calculated that this signal costs 12,1 trillion dollars, or 12,100 billion dollars, in the first 25 years. Is that right? If not, what does it cost? Or are we going to ratify an agreement that we don't know how much it costs? That would be completely ridiculous, but calculating what would cost, the cabinet did not do so when the energy agreement was concluded, nor does the cabinet do so in the cost of mass immigration. In that sense, this line is ridicul but consistent. Is it true that the IPCC reports state that there is no evidence that recent climate changes lead to extreme weather? Is it true that the data from weather agencies worldwide confirm that? I'd like a response. How much progress will the world make with the 90 billion energy agreement if the move from 16% to 25% of renewable energy means 0.000045°C (45 millionth degree) less warming, as the cabinet announced? What is the Dutch effort for Paris? And how do the efforts of the Netherlands relate to those of China and India, which relate their contribution to the growth of gross domestic product? This means that they are going to emit much more and open many hundreds of coal plants in the coming years. How does our efforts relate to the withdrawal of the agreement by the United States? The good thing is: I just want a concrete answer to these questions. And that while there are plenty of developments in the world with forms of energy that are truly sustainable and demand-driven, such as thorium and fusion. Or should we call the animal by the name, as several IPCCs do in the meantime? It's just a vulgar redistribution of wealth. 100 billion dollars a year goes from the developed world to the Third World. China doesn't pay anything. Russia doesn't pay anything. India doesn't pay anything. Saudi Arabia doesn't pay anything. No, the Dutch taxpayer, who pays. I would like to thank you for your attention and to await the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u17	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Sluijs. I'm asking you to stand still for a moment. Congratulations on your maiden speech. You were installed on 28 March 2017 as a member of the Upper House. In this house you are part of the Committees on Home Affairs and Infrastructure, Environment and Spatial Planning. In particular, you have already gained a great deal of experience on this subject at provincial level. Since 2011, you have been part of the PVV group in the Provincial States of North Holland, the province where you were born and raised. Here too, you have taken up the issue of climate and energy very actively. You are one of the five First Chamber members who are also in the Provincial States. As a result, you contribute to the consolidation of the centuries-old relationship between the provinces and the States-General. One thing that perhaps not many of my colleagues in the Chamber know is that in the past you have been professionally military for more than twenty years. You were even sent to Bosnia in 2001. Afterwards, between 2002 and 2015, you held several civilian positions at the Ministry of Defence. However, that time is behind you now, because since January this year you have your own organizational and advisory office. Nevertheless, I hope that the First Chamber will also be able to benefit from the precision and decisiveness that military forces are known for. I wish you every success in your further contribution to the work of the Chamber and suspend the sitting for a short moment to give colleagues the opportunity to congratulate you, but I will do so first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u18	I'm reopening the meeting. We will continue with the first deadline for the examination of the draft law Adoption of the Paris Agreement concluded in Paris on 12 December 2015. I call Mr Schrijver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. Unlike our new colleague, my group sees the agreement reached by 195 states and the European Union on 12 December 2015 under the leadership of the French Government in Paris as a historic breakthrough. Several previous attempts to follow up the 1992 Climate Framework Convention and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol have been unsuccessful. In addition, Paris reached a broad-based agreement, as the main players, the main polluters, such as China, the US, the EU, Russia and Japan, were in fact behind it. This also meant that the Paris climate agreement could enter into force surprisingly quickly on 4 November 2016, after 55 states, responsible for at least 55% of greenhouse gas emissions, had ratified the Convention. In the meantime, 149 states have ratified the Paris Agreement and we are hopeful that the Netherlands will join it this summer, again as almost the fence of the EU and OECD countries. We cannot ignore the fact that there is now a great shadow over the effectiveness and future of the Paris Agreement, because the new President Trump has chosen to leave the climate agreement. This has also made the termination clause surprisingly fast. But Article 28 of the Paris climate agreement has introduced a huge brake on exit. It provides that a Party may not terminate the Agreement for the first three years after it has entered into force for that Party. The Article also provides that withdrawal shall take effect one year after its receipt. A three-plus-one-year term will bring us at least until November 2020, and that happens to be the month of the regular presidential elections in the United States. We must not, of course, interfere with the internal affairs of that state, but we can express the hope that God may prevent the US from leaving, for example by being inspired by Pope Francis and his encyclical about the climate in 2020, Laudatio si', subtitled 'About caring for our common home'. In the meantime, our earthly question to the Secretary of State remains relevant, which is expected to be the impact of the announced withdrawal of the US from the climate agreement on the current US treaty obligations and cooperation between the States Parties to further develop the system of compliance and monitoring and the global financing of climate policy. It is encouraging that no country has yet indicated that it will follow the example of the US. In addition, within the US, a number of states, including California, and cities have joined the "We Are Still In" alliance. However encouraging, that alliance can never fill the gap that President Trump creates. The Paris Climate Agreement is a triptych with the 1992 UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. But that does not mean that the construction is finished, because according to legal standards, the Paris agreement is very soft in terms of content and enforceability. How does the Secretary of State view this? The agreement aims to effectively limit global warming in the year 2100 to well below 2 ̊C in relation to the pre-industrial era. To this end, the use of fossil fuels, in particular, must be drastically reduced as the main culprits of global warming, giving developing countries more time. Global warming is seen worldwide as one of the most threatening environmental, if not security and development issues. This is due to the far-reaching and partly irrevocable consequences of warming, including the rise in sea level, the decline in biodiversity, increased water and food shortages and the increasing risk of violent conflicts and refugee flows. The climate agreement is rather vague "in the second half of this century there must be a balance between greenhouse gas emissions and nature's ability to absorb them." That's not very specific. How does the Secretary of State see that? The agreement contains a large number of provisions on the implementation of the obligations. Central to this is national action plans for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, also known as the "nationally determined contributions." These will be assessed every five years in the light of the objectives, starting in 2023. To this end, States have agreed to a system to monitor, measure and verify plans and effects. In doing so, the negotiators, including our Secretary of State, have opted for a bottom-up approach, while the Kyoto Protocol, with its detailed quantitative and legally binding emission limits per treaty state, included a top-down approach. My group's question to the Secretary of State is whether this bottom-up approach, with its voluntary national efforts, does not pose a threat to too much freedom of policy for treaty states, to non-committality and to non-performance of the commitments. The shirt is often closer to governments than the skirt. Article 15 of the Agreement merely provides for a mechanism for compliance to assess the implementation of Paris in a transparent, non-confrontatory and non-punitive manner and to report to the Conference of the Parties. In some other parts of international environmental law, we have stricter enforcement mechanisms, including fines, trade measures or opportunities for citizens to use directly working provisions. But in international climate law, all this does not apply. A response from the Secretary of State on the pros and cons of the new bottom-up approach and the new voluntary national contributions. Furthermore, is there any indication of whether the total amount of national contributions committed is sufficient to meet the minimum two-degree target in 2100? Of course, we cannot ignore what the Netherlands itself does and must do. In the Urgenda case, the Hague Court ruled that, on the basis of all the data, the 25% reduction target constitutes the lower limit of the Dutch State's efforts to avoid an unlawful threat to citizens by the State. We know there's another appeal going through the state. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the implementation of the Hague judge's order and whether the 25% standard corresponds to the contribution that the Netherlands has to make to the EU contribution that the Member States must jointly achieve by 2030 a reduction of at least 40% compared to 1990 in order to meet their obligations under the Paris climate agreement. My group also refers to Samsom and Klaver's own-initiative proposal for a national climate law. This is something that, as we learned from the Interparliamentary Union, exists in more than 100 countries. Our question to the Secretary of State is what, in her view, could be the added value of a national climate law for the Netherlands in terms of meeting our treaty obligations as effectively and fully as possible. Should a new cabinet not take initiatives in this area and set standards as legislators? In Paris, it was agreed that at least USD 100 million of loans and grants should be made available annually to finance the projects that enable states to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to respond to the effects of climate change, such as the rise in sea levels. Furthermore, developed countries have an obligation to financially support developing countries in their climate plans. All this money should be made available through public-private partnerships. We ask the Secretary of State to indicate what plans are in development in this direction and what the intended contribution of the Netherlands is. Until the last moment of the conference, the differentiation between states, as it is called somewhat euphemistic, was a hot issue in terms of their commitments to reducing greenhouse gases. This is based on the important legal principle of common but differentiated responsibility. It is acceptable that developing countries, especially the least developed countries and small island states, should have some flexibility in terms of the time they need to achieve the required reduction and that they should report less frequently and in detail. These developing countries do not want to restrict their economic development because of a problem created by industrial states. Therefore, in the preamble to the Climate Agreement, the right to development is universally recognised as a human right. However, in order to cope with the inevitable climate change, they must also be helped to adapt their land and forest management and reduce their growing emissions. However, my group believes that the so-called BRIC countries, China, India, Brazil and Russia, as well as countries such as Saudi Arabia, should not be given this exemption. These countries should also contribute to the financial support of climate projects in the poorest countries. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this is sufficiently reflected in the Paris documents. Finally, I would like to touch on some of the treaty-law issues. Under Article 20 (3) of Paris, the EU is a full party to the treaty. On this basis, the Treaty already applies to the Netherlands where the EU and the Member States share a responsibility for climate policy. My question to the Secretary of State is what additional obligations, responsibilities and rights will be given to the Netherlands after accession to the Convention, in addition to the obligations, responsibilities and rights that we already have under EU law. The second point concerns the Kingdom position. My group welcomes the government's request for approval for the whole Kingdom. The explanatory memorandum states that the three overseas countries of our Kingdom must therefore implement implementing legislation. My group would like to stress the importance of this and ask about the state of play. I come to the third point. It was decided at the time to conclude the Paris Agreement as an agreement and not as a treaty, allegedly to enable US President Obama to bind the US to the agreement by means of a presidential decree. That would not be possible under U.S. state law if it were a treaty, because it would require the approval of the US Congress. The Vienna Convention provides in Article 2 that agreements, charters, protocols and the like are simply different names for a treaty and do not entail different status. The same applies under our Rijkswet approval and publication treaties. My group's question to the Secretary of State is whether it can indeed confirm that the name of the agreement chosen does not in fact lead to any differences for the Netherlands and that the Paris agreement with us is, therefore, simply a treaty within the meaning of the State law mentioned above. My group looks forward with great interest to the answers of the Secretary of State and to the other contributions from colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. It is to be appreciated that he presents several scientific insights. As far as we are concerned, these insights are still asking for additional information on the impact of greenhouse gases on our atmosphere and, therefore, on the climate in current conditions. That makes the difference between Mr Van der Sluijs' approach and our approach. We need few steps in environmental ethics to recognise that reducing the greenhouse effect is one of our categorical obligations. Human action increases the temperature on Earth, warms up the sea water, disrupts climatic systems and special balances, reduces biodiversity, puts pressure on living conditions, and will increase the incidence of ecological and therefore humanitarian disasters. The pace of these climate changes is increasing, and that is disturbing. The reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is now our categorical task. We have to do that. For global intervention, it has already been five to twelve several times. There is too much emissions of CO and methane in the atmosphere in particular. It is very important that, as is now proposed, we quickly reach our peak in this regard, which is the words of the agreement................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I was just talking about environmental considerations. That is where our story should indeed begin, both in our responsibility and in our mind. The earth is entrusted to man, not to exploit it for its own purposes, but to manage and preserve it for future generations. The Earth is a unique asset. He's vulnerable, too, as it turns out. I have been raised in the unpraised Christian education that this country is rich with the idea that man has a cultural mission in relation to the earth, which is not man-made but can be destroyed by man-hand. My group welcomes the Paris Convention on Climate Change, a milestone for the world community. It has been a long and tough process to reach this framework of binding agreements. From the 1980s onwards, a number of steps have grown not only the awareness of responsibility, but also the willingness to take concrete measures. Through the 1992 Framework Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and a series of conferences, 196 countries agreed in Paris in 2015 to this climate agreement, which imposes commitments under the 2°C objective. It's gonna be quite a challenge to stay in there. If we get up there at the end of the century, irreversible processes arise in the biosphere, so is the fear. It is particularly sad that the United States considered it necessary to withdraw from the climate agreement, especially in view of its motivation. Meanwhile, China, Russia and cities and states in the United States continue to commit to the objectives of the agreement, fortunately. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what her assessment is of this development. A number of colleagues have also asked for this. What does getting out of the United States mean for the goals set, for the way we can achieve them with each other? What measures can be taken in the future to encourage the United States to participate? After all, President Trump won't have eternal life; as president, I mean? By accepting the climate agreement, we commit ourselves to a comprehensive reform of our economy and society. In order to achieve a greenhouse gas neutral situation, we need to significantly reduce CO emissions and reduce the use of fossil fuels. My party is in favour of taking the necessary steps as quickly as possible in industry and construction and in transport and transport, mobility. Let us make full use of renewable energy and make it an economic and social success. A head start in that area will not make us windy. That word crossed my mind, but then I realized that it is a very strange metaphor in this context. Fortunately, the energy transition has already started and many become aware of the need to switch to alternative energy sources wherever it can. But in Europe, like the Netherlands, we are not a frontrunner and CO emissions have even increased in recent years in particular in the industry sector, especially through the use of new and old coal plants. Most parties agree that coal plants should be phased out. In what way and at what rate, according to the Secretary of State, can this be done? And then this. A minimum price for CO has been introduced in the UK for the electricity sector. This makes the use of coal more expensive compared to, for example, less polluting energy sources such as gas. What does the Secretary of State think about such a more ambitious pricing of CO? Of course in the European context and in combination with the ETS, the emissions system. The Paris Convention talks about bringing money flows into line with low-carbon developments. Here we have one for picking up. As regards the reduction of CO emissions, there is talk of percentages to be achieved in 2030 and 2050. Based on 80% to 95% reduction in 2050, we should achieve 43% to 49% reduction in 2030 according to the Plan Bureau for the Environment. It will be clear that the necessary approach extends across the full breadth of our economic and social activities and will also affect our lifestyle. We will need austerity and moderation in our consumption of energy. The costs will have to be shared as much as possible and should not be an additional burden on low-income people. Although we focus strongly on reducing CO, methane emissions also contribute to global warming. That affects our agriculture. According to what pattern will methane reduction have to take place according to the cabinet? The Paris Convention on Climate Change will force us to make sharp choices. It opens our eyes to the global interconnectedness of issues, including the disappearance of sources of existence in some parts of the world. I am talking about the link between drought, hunger and poverty. We have entered the energy and climate age, as American journalist Thomas Friedman calls it. We cannot avoid the problems we have raised ourselves. We will have to save our planet, which from space still looks like a green sphere. For further concrete measures, it will be awaiting a new cabinet to build on this agreement. We wish the cabinet a great deal of wisdom and, above all, courage to make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u21	I still have one more question. Mr Kuiper fully supports the climate agreement. This also applies to all kinds of far-reaching measures. However, the agreements made so far in Europe are not sufficient to achieve this climate agreement. The same applies to the policy that the Netherlands is making on this basis. Does the Christian Union believe that these agreements should be strengthened in Europe and therefore in the Netherlands, because the objectives of Paris must at least be achieved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u22	If we ratify this climate agreement, it seems that we are going to do so, then we are committed to the objective of 2°C, perhaps 1.5°C. This, in turn, leads to all sorts of measures. That's not the first time we've started. This cabinet was already working on it. It will be clear that a subsequent cabinet will have to translate this into action. I have also read in the press that this agreement is going to be tough in the European countries; not that it is not going to happen, but it is going to be tough. There's a lot of stuff going on about the percentages and how we're gonna get them. My questions to the Secretary of State are also addressed to this. I do believe that a lot of new policies need to be put in place. That must be done in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u23	We are already discussing very important issues in Europe, including the emissions trading system, the ETS, and the agreements on transport and agriculture. The present government is talking about this in the context of the Environment Council and the Energy Council. Does Mr Kuiper think that the Netherlands should use these councils to strengthen European policy so that we can really achieve the Paris objectives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u24	Yes. In my story I gave the example of the price of CO, a minimum price. The European emissions system provides a kind of ceiling for this, but it remains possible to buy a lot of CO rights. If they become more expensive, it will have a firmer effect. On balance, that will indeed be a tightening-up of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u25	So Mr Kuiper believes that, for example, the emissions trading system needs to be tightened up so that it actually works, for example by ensuring that CO prices go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u26	Rights have been issued under that system, so there is still a great deal of room. The ceiling is still insufficient to meet the objectives. We are also talking about very ambitious targets in terms of 2% or 1.5%. This has also been discussed in detail in the House of Representatives. The question was raised as to whether it should not be 1.5. As far as we're concerned, good care for the Earth, for the planet, means you can't do enough. You can't be careful enough. We will really have to come up with ambitious plans and measures next year. Let the upcoming cabinet and the Cabinets that follow it consider this, but a lot will have to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u27	Does this mean for the Christian Union that the goals of Paris are actually being met and achieved, so well below 2°C and striving for 1.5°C? Is that a soil that must be realized in any way, with any cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u28	If we accept the Paris Convention on Climate Change, that is our starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. Undoubtedly, we have all read the Secretary of State that well-known book of Godfried Bomans, Erik or the little insect book. That's about that little boy getting into the painting over his bed one night. That delightful booklet opens with a quote by Leonardo da Vinci, which I like to read: "We are all exiles, alive within the lists of a strange painting. Who knows this, lives big. The rest are insects." Bomans wanted to indicate with this quote that there is so much that we little people don't know and can't contain, just like those insects Bomans writes about, who have no idea that they live within the list of paintings and that outside that list the actual life begins. Even if we know a lot, our knowledge is limited. That should make us careful with the use of too big words. In the Bible book Job, God slightly ironically asks Job: "Where were you when I made the earth? Tell me when you know so much!" This need for modesty also applies to the climate. Science in this field is relatively young. Here too, we do not yet know much, for example, about the extent of human influence. This must require caution, the organisation of critical counter-play and the restraint of overstretched apocalyptic pronunciations, such as: if we do nothing now, the world will perish. Despite the warming up, let us keep our heads cool, exercise sobriety and do not raise climate change to pseudo-religion, where doubt is mercilessly crushed. I think we're doing our posterity a great favor. I was rather shocked by the statement made by our Foreign Minister, namely that the failure of the US to participate in the climate agreement marks a turning point in relations with the US. This has been overlaid; as if there is no criticism of the agreement. I would have found such a sharp reaction more appropriate if, for example, Trump had withdrawn from the international fight against Islamic terror. The jihad is certainly no less acute problem than the climate. When I get the climate agreement and the IPCC reports working on me, I just get a feeling of estrangement, as if the climate is a man-controlled thermostat. Global climate systems are hugely complex, so even scientists have to breathe regularly. In the first place, we are amazed at the greatness of God's creation, but also modesty. The IPCC can screen with broad scientific consensus and we must therefore take its message seriously. But it is important that climate science remains critical of itself and that politics is critical of climate research. Citizens and businesses will have to go deep into the pouch in the coming decades. They therefore demand a well-founded story, which answers the critical questions that live with them. Citizens don't swallow everything for sweets. It used to be called emancipation; now populism, so Martin Sommer wrote last Saturday in the Volkskrant. Is it the government's commitment to managing the climate file with a healthy and critical look? A sober approach to the climate record does not mean a laconic approach. The earth is a creation of the Lord God and therefore it is fitting to be vigilant. "Nighter" and "vigilant" are keywords in this file with regard to the SGP. So I do not want to re-relate or push forward the message of climate science. The SGP attaches great importance to stewardship, to good management of creation and from there to the precautionary principle. We can and must assume our responsibilities, even if a country like the United States fails. Because we know that developing countries are already unable to cope with floods and droughts, with the corresponding tensions and migratory flows. Major steps are needed to cope with the rise in sea levels and more extreme weather conditions. The same applies to tackling our use of fossil fuels. This requires international cooperation and international agreements. Sea, climate and CO do not comply with national borders. Neither are energy-intensive companies. I'd like to give the Cabinet a strong warning. In society there are concerns about increasing globalisation and Europeanisation. These are reinforced by the European energy ambitions and the climate agreement. Are we still boss in our own country? Will there still be jobs left for us if energy-intensive companies close the doors? Do we pay the bill for all green subsidies, while we ourselves do not have any money to isolate our homes properly or to buy an electric car? We must take these concerns seriously. It is not for nothing that the Council of State signed the present proposal for ratification that the obligations will have major consequences. Is the government going to make sure that we keep room for commitments to be fulfilled in our own way? Is the government going to ensure that we do not allow jobs to disappear across borders? Our companies are doing more work on energy saving than they are building wind farms. These windmills are mainly from abroad. Furthermore, we must prevent energy-intensive companies from crossing the border and then import the products from those companies. Is the government going to ensure that lower-income households do not pay the bill for long-term green policy? I would also like to stress that the sustainability of our energy supply is not only a reduction in CO emissions and costs a lot of money. Every year, the Netherlands pays some EUR 7 billion abroad for fossil fuels. Investing in energy saving and renewable energy is therefore not just a waste of money. We are also ensuring that we are less dependent on dubious oil sheiks, gas barons and coal farmers. Each refueling also delivers miles for Saudi imams who want to win the world for Islam. The sooner this subsidy stops, the better. I have two more questions on the legal implications of the climate agreement. The climate agreement is a mixed agreement. Both the European Union and the individual Member States are involved. In the meantime, the EU has already ratified the Convention. Does that mean that if the Netherlands were not to ratify the treaty, we would still be getting the corresponding obligations through the European Union? Or does or doesn't ratify de facto matter? The Government states in the reply that the provisions of the Treaty do not have direct effect. They are not sufficiently specific in substance to be able to function as an objective right in the national legal order. I would like to make a few comments. We have now had the Urgenda ruling, in which the court instructed the State to ensure that 25% CO reduction is achieved by 2020. The court refers, inter alia, to international conventions under which the Netherlands has signed. I would like to hear, in the light of the Urgenda ruling, a further explanation of the cabinet's statement that the Treaty provisions do not have direct effect. How does the Secretary of State assess the reflex effect of these provisions and how does the Secretary of State appreciate this? How does this work in other EU Member States? I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. Today I am replacing my colleague Petra Stienen, who is unable to attend this debate because of the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I am very pleased to be able to participate in this discussion and to learn a lot at the same time. After President Trump announced at the beginning of this month that the U.S. would abandon the treaty that is being discussed in this house today, French President Macron gave him a rhetorical answer: "Make our planet great again." Of course, you all know from President Trum that he was mainly concerned with "make the US great again." But this is now a good alternative to the US President's approach to national objectives. President Macron's words symbolise what is at stake today: a common and urgent responsibility of all countries in the world to combat global climate change, and to find innovative ways to deal with the effects of climate change. The Earth is warming up, and this has great consequences for our way of life. Climate experts warn of droughts, stronger hurricanes and floods. Our low-lying Netherlands must also arm itself against the rising water, and needs other countries to keep dry feet. At the North Pole, the ice melts much faster than expected. Those who visit Spitsbergen, as I myself have recently been allowed to do, will be shocked by the scale and speed of the glaciers' withdrawal. But the effects of global warming go beyond the climate alone. Tropical plagues and diseases will increase. People living in sub-Sahel and in the Middle East will end up in unviable situations. Food is becoming scarce, conflicts are increasing, and people will flee. And in our own country, for example, climate change leads to the salinisation of rivers, resulting in the unusable use of agricultural land. The effects of climate change will be felt all over the world, and a common approach is therefore essential. Climate change is not a natural disaster that is happening to us and that cannot be stopped. 97% of climate experts agree that global warming is caused by human action. Climate change is also not a problem of the future, but a shared global problem, which requires a shared global approach. The historic Paris climate agreement provides the basis for such a global approach. 195 countries have agreed to combat climate change and limit global warming. The Secretary of State has also worked hard on this, and my group would like to thank her warmly for her efforts in Paris. In this context, the D66 Group strongly supports the fact that, in response to President Trump's statement that the US will leave the Paris Agreement, the Netherlands has increased its contribution to the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to €100,000. The D66 Group also supports the contribution of €50,000 to the IPCC study on future scenarios. After all, the Paris Agreement is a start in many respects. Now comes an even greater challenge: its implementation. The Netherlands and Europe also need to add a few more teeth to that, according to the Urgenda-pronunciation, among other things. The European targets need to be made more ambitious, because they are not yet sufficient to contribute proportionally to the necessary CO reduction. The Secretary of State assumes that the increase in targets is now too early and can be reflected in the next climate negotiations. If we are not far too late, my group is wondering. The seriousness of the effects of climate change underlines the urgent need for an ambitious climate agenda. An increasing number of countries recognise that the Treaty also creates economic opportunities. They are now fully committed to the implementation of the Paris agreements. The Netherlands, however, lags behind in the line of ratification of the Treaty. This does not fit in with the ambition that the Netherlands should show in the area of climate change. The Netherlands, too, can make a significant international contribution to the mitigation and adaptation of the climate problem. In my group's view, the government's sustainability policy has been disappointing so far. The historical judgment of the judge in the case brought by Urgenda is a clear message to the cabinet. The government must be a driver of effective climate policy. A means for this could be an implementation programme of the Paris results, a programme which is monitored and evaluated every year. The Netherlands also has something to offer, as one of the twenty largest economies in the world and as a leader in knowledge and innovation. The energy transition is already in full swing. Businesses also pay attention to this. D66 expects the government to play a leading role in this. For my group, this is a clear policy priority, focused on the Paris climate objectives. We would rather go one step further. That would be an important touchstone for my group to welcome a new cabinet here. Hopefully this will happen in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, 150 of the 195 countries have ratified the Paris Agreement. Let me not faintly start by saying that the Netherlands, together with the Czech Republic, is the last EU country to ratify and that the Netherlands does not overboil ambition in this respect. I prefer to keep that text for the moment when the government can be praised for actually achieving the objectives of the agreement. A tease over the shaky beginning will not come up with resistance. The aim of this Convention is to limit global warming to well below 2C in relation to the pre-industrial level, with the aim of limiting this increase to 1.5C. After ratification, all countries are obliged to take measures to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to make adjustments to cope with climate change, or to come to climate adaptation. It is a historic breakthrough that this result has been achieved, and we cannot afford to delay its implementation. The Party for Animals would like to see a maximum of 1.5C, because the effects of the warming would still be somewhat manageable. How does the Secretary of State view this? Does she also see that we really need to maintain that 1.5C in order to avoid an unmanageable situation? The effects of climate change are now palpable and visible throughout the world. They are dangerous and the consequences are getting worse. The solutions go beyond a transition to clean energy. It is about making the earth viable again, where it is no longer the case today, think of drought, floods and climate wars, and to keep the earth habitable for future generations. Because the importance of a healthy living environment has been undermining almost all political decisions for such a long time, this is the greatest challenge facing our generation today. So now it's about the actions. Because Donald Trump has left the climate agreement, we will have to run even faster than was agreed in Paris. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to report to the Chamber the implementation of all the obligations arising from the Paris Agreement without hesitation and with a verifiable and checkable roadmap, so that we have a track record of all good intentions and can keep up-to-date on progress along the way. The government has to run much faster than it is now. It continues to support fossil and heavily polluting industries through low VAT rates, large consumer discounts for energy and non-accounting external costs. The cabinet uses the subsidy pot to encourage new energy for co-incineration of biomass in fossil coal plants. That doesn't generate new energy, even if it doesn't produce any CO, but it does keep those dirty coal plants running. This cabinet isn't gonna be able to get to a coal exit. However, in order to reduce CO emissions by a quarter by 2020, this is the objective that the Netherlands committed itself to after the Urgendavonnis. The fact that gas fields are opened in Woerden as an alternative to gas extraction in Groningen borders on the definition that Einstein gave to madness: always do the same and still expect another result. We just don't have time for that anymore. Millions are disappearing from the same precious jar that is meant for renewable energy, for keeping the bio-industry alive. The fermentation of manure does not lead to new energy, because not only are millions of animals kept in stables day in, day out, with all the problems that this entails, but also on the other side of the world, jungle is being hijacked to enable soy to be grown as feed for those animals. The import of this feed alone and the energy use involved could provide 5 million Dutch households with energy. It is not obvious to keep our energy supplies dependent on an energy waste industry. And then I haven't mentioned the air scrubbers that are on those stables, which are also big energy slurpers. The Netherlands really needs to get to work. The transition from animal to plant proteins offers a great opportunity. The Netherlands is also leading solar energy according to TU Delft. We need to make use of that. As Mr Kuiper said: CO pricing is within reach and is a very effective means. The call of the Party for Animals to the cabinet is therefore: let go of the old thinking, bet on energy saving and protein transition. Get rid of the bio-industry as soon as possible. Close the coal power stations, as requested by the other side. Stop biomass. Turn off the gas tap as soon as possible and make sure we also build houses that don't go on the gas. It's possible. According to Urgenda, a built environment without gas is already possible in 2030. Bet on new thinkers with new energy! The new formatter should realise that there is a climate-unfriendly shadow coalition, in which both climate deniers and misriders are present. A shadow coalition of 77 seats on the other side, formed by CDA, PVV, Forum for Democracy, SGP and VVD. Tjeenk Willink said that the failure to implement the climate agreement in time would lead to serious natural disasters, and it is very doubtful whether a good climate agreement can be concluded with CDA and VVD, thus achieving the objectives set out in the Paris agreement. The progressive parties should join forces to prevent a climate-unfriendly coalition. Only in this way can we prevent the "nothing going on, just going on" parties from getting in the way, with all the consequences of that. Global warming will lead to unmanageable problems if we do not act quickly. Africa, South-East Europe and South-West Europe. That's what drives people. The parties that deny climate change are the major causes of new, increasing and uncontrolled refugee flows. If we choose to escalate these problems, this will not only plague the earth, but will not leave the interests of the hardworking Dutchman untouched. If it becomes unviable in Africa and southern Europe, it will not be pleasant for us either. I dare to say here with conviction that we will have to focus on fewer, fewer, fewer refugees, because we do not wish to flee from drought, hunger, flood or war, problems that we can avoid together with the whole world. So we must stop mopping the crane open and remove one of the largest breeding grounds of refugee flows. One of the biggest drivers of climate change is the bio-industry. Meat production accounts for 18% of global greenhouse gas emissions. That is more than 40% more than all traffic and transport combined, including all airlines. That large share also means that with a little less meat you can make a lot of progress. If everyone in the Netherlands doesn't eat meat one day a week, that means taking 1 million cars off the road. One of the reasons that less meat cannot be eaten is that eating meat is still wrongly the standard in the Netherlands. People don't generally make the choice for meat food consciously, but they do it because everyone does it. On the basis of this statement, our colleague Henriette Prast has developed a great idea of how we can easily change that social standard. Our whole society is still focused on the self-evidentness of meat. Think of the conclusion of the political year of the House of Representatives, with a barbecue organized by the cattle and meat sector. Meat is the norm and people with an example function confirm this standard. The standard can be changed when the situation is reversed. If you want a vegetarian meal, you don't have to mention it specifically anymore, but if you eat meat, pass it along, or "Carnivore? Pass it on!" In our chambre de réflexion, we should set a good example if we want to reverse the social norm, without affecting anyone in their freedom. Research shows that at least 80% of participants in conferences, air travel, parties or parties choose the standard menu offered, whether vegetable or composed of meat or fish. If you turn the standard, it will have a huge effect, says the colleague in this house who has studied for it the longest. Let us use her expertise in this Chamber to the benefit of all of us, without anyone having to fall short. Anyone who wants to know more about this brilliant plan, colleague Prast gave an enlightening lecture about it at Lowlands University and I would like to provide you with the link to look back at that lecture online. The official cabinet position has been for more than thirteen years that meat is the most polluting part of our food package. This week, the government allocated 1.8 million for the transition of animal protein to vegetable protein on the consumer's plate. It is a slap against the huge profits that could be made in this area, but a wonderful gesture from a cabinet that itself recognizes that the enormous consumption of meat is unsustainable. The Chinese government goes much further and decided that Chinese meat consumption will have to be halved in the interests of the entire world population. It's hard for us to stay behind, isn't it? Urgenda has published a report last weekend in which the protein transition is integrated into the transition to a climate-neutral Netherlands in 2030. We can respond to the call for a sustainable pattern of consumption if we use our parliamentary role as a model to reverse the social standard in our home of reflection and to make it more sustainable, without anyone having to fall short. The First Chamber could implement the concept of "Carnivore, pass it on" with speed, at no extra cost, without any extra effort and for the well-being of all members, where no one needs to miss anything. I would therefore like to present this proposal in the first time, in order to indicate how urgent it is. The President shall: Mr Teunissen, Mr Koffeman, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Meijer, Mr Ruers and Mr Köhler proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the consumption of animal proteins entails a heavy burden on animals, nature, environment and climate;]] [[Whereas, by reversing the social standard, the consumption of animal proteins could be drastically reduced, without affecting one's freedom of choice;]] [[Whereas, as a representative of the people, we have an exemplary role to play in terms of sustainable behavioural change;]] [[expresses her wish that the meals served in the First Chamber will in principle be free of meat and fish, with those products available to all those who so wish, on request,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34589-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you. So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u33	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. The Paris climate agreement is a major breakthrough and is crucial to avert the potential greatest catastrophe in the 21st century. The Paris Agreement is a hard agreement to keep global warming well below 2°C. It is committed to a maximum of 1.5°C, because we now know that the increase may be a maximum of 1.5°C in order to prevent serious consequences of climate change. Consequences that are already becoming apparent: the melting of Arctic ice and glaciers; the rise in sea levels in a country like Bangladesh are the water really on the lips of the people; great drought that leads to famine and wars; areas that become uninhabitable; people fleeing because their habitat becomes unviable; great deterioration of the weather: more violent storms and hurricanes, tidal waves, heavy rainfall. Serious damage to ecosystems and the extinction of plant and animal species: it is already happening and the damage will not be seen if global warming continues at today's pace. The Earth will become much less habitable. Therefore maximum 1.5°C warming. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this is also the purpose for the cabinet that we must achieve in compliance with Paris. We're running out of time. Within our generation we must turn the tide: 15 to 20 years, that is all we have. Because all the CO, methane and nitrous oxide that are now entering the air and entering the atmosphere contribute to warming, and the degradation of greenhouse gases is very slow. The longer we continue with greenhouse gas emissions, the stronger the warming and the more serious the consequences. But also: the more money it will cost us to slow down the warming and to deal with the consequences. The longer we wait, the more expensive it gets. Addressing climate change is also a great opportunity for the economy and employment. Think of innovation, resource savings, a circular economy. Think of the production of renewable energy in the Netherlands and Europe that creates money and jobs for ourselves instead of letting the euros flow to countries in the Middle East and Russia; Mr Van Dijk also spoke about this. Think also of new innovative production in the fields of energy, transport, homes and buildings and food. We must and can create a win-win in a green economy, whether it is energy, chemistry and materials, agriculture, transport, living and building or ICT, leisure and recreation. It is not self-evident, and some steps will be difficult, but the future perspective is hopeful, provided we make the right choices and take the steps in time. The ratification of Paris is a very important step. We are pleased that the Netherlands fully supports this ratification and that the cabinet has been committed to making this agreement possible. Over 140 countries I heard different numbers here have already ratified. Unfortunately, the President of the United States, Donald Trump, is putting a spokesperson in the wheel. It is inconceivable for our group that a country such as the United States should take such a step and isolate itself internationally. It is shortsighted and it will be at the expense of one's own economy and the people that Donald Trump claims to support. We are pleased that Europe and the Netherlands have said that we are catching that gap and that Europe is showing itself to be combative and wants to take a leading role in climate change. China is also emerging as a warm advocate. The Chinese economy is now showing for the first time, in addition to the enormous development of wind and solar energy, a reduction in the use of coal in energy supply and industry. Of course, it has consequences for Europe and the Netherlands, because you cannot rightly criticize Trump on the one hand, but then you do not keep to the agreements yourself. We know that the current climate policy and the commitments in the European Union by 2030 are totally insufficient to meet the Paris targets. The Dutch policy is also far from satisfactory. In order to achieve Paris, we need at least 55% CO reduction instead of the 40% that is now the target for 2030. In the debate with the House of Representatives on Paris at the end of January, the Secretary of State also indicated that we are not achieving the goals with today's policy and that we are above 2°C. So there's work to be done. I have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. In September 2018, the IPCC country report will be published, which will show how we stand with the national plans that must achieve the goals of Paris together. This will lead to a dialogue with all the countries that have ratified the agreement. Will the Secretary of State confirm that this will mean for the Netherlands that the policy will be strengthened if the country report shows that the Netherlands is doing too little to achieve Paris, and that the cabinet will make an effort to strengthen the European Union's policy, if that proves insufficient? The ETS, the emissions trading system to achieve the reduction of greenhouse gases from large industrial sectors and energy producers, with a goal of 43% reduction in 2030 according to current EU policies, is not functioning very well. The CO price is €5 per tonne, totally insufficient to drive investment in sustainable innovations. These large companies have been granted free CO rights and far too many CO rights. From this, there is hardly any incentive to reduce CO emissions. This is going to be handled very carefully, but it is not enough to reduce the huge reservoir of excess allowances and boost the CO price. It is only after 2024, that surplus allowances are destroyed on a very limited scale. The ceiling is being reduced very little, and far too many free allowances are still being allocated, such as to the steel industry. The ETS is therefore totally insufficient to reach Paris. What is the government's commitment? Does the Secretary of State see the possibility of achieving a higher CO price, possibly with like-minded countries in the European Union? Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue within the EU that air traffic to and from the EU should be brought under the ETS? The EU also sets national CO reduction targets for other non-ETS sectors, such as agriculture and transport. For the Netherlands, the target is -36% in 2030. However, Member States and the Netherlands, through all kinds of backdoors and "smartness", try to meet these objectives more easily. This creates a false paper reality and undermines the Paris agreement. For example, the Netherlands wants to be able to convert surplus ETS allowances into allowances that can be used in the ESA sectors such as agriculture and transport. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. EU countries also want to be able to earn CO credits by planting trees. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue in the EU for higher targets for the non-ETS sectors, and the closing of all backdoors or walkways, so that the Paris Agreement will be complied with? The European Union is also negotiating targets for renewable energy and energy saving. In the Netherlands, these goals have proved crucial for achieving the energy agreement and the breakthrough in the wind at sea, with a groundbreaking reduction in costs being achieved. We therefore find it incomprehensible that the Netherlands, on the one hand, is full of commitment to Paris, for which praise and, on the other hand, strongly opposes new binding targets for renewable energy and energy saving and, on the other hand, wants to keep those targets as low as possible. The binding targets have so far provided clear direction and commitments, providing clarity for investors and companies. This has created sufficient scale and attracted innovation and lower prices. The cabinet has claimed that several objectives are counterproductive, but today's results show the opposite. The PBL and ECN also show that it is possible to achieve an optimal mix of savings, renewable energy and CO reduction. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Negotiations on the objectives of the ETS, i.e. the large companies, and the non-ETS, i.e. agriculture, traffic and other sectors, are now underway and are expected to be completed before a new cabinet enters office. The outgoing cabinet with this Secretary of State is therefore a move. Will it commit itself to achieving Paris objectives? Will it focus on accelerating the tightening of ETS policy, thus removing all excess allowances from the market much faster than planned and accelerating the reduction of the ceiling? Is the Secretary of State prepared to reconsider the commitment on three binding targets, and now commit to binding targets for CO reduction, renewable energy and energy saving? And is she willing to work for a North Sea Energy Grid and multiple cross-border networks? Also, the current targets for the Netherlands for 2020, agreed in the EU and set in the Energy Agreement, seem to be not being met. Renewable energy grew by 0.1% in 2016, from 5.8% to 5.9%. As a result, the target of 14% in 2020 and 16% in 2023 is becoming increasingly out of focus. What is the Cabinet going to do about this, I ask. Also the execution of the Urgendavonnis is not going well. The CBS shows that with three new coal plants, the Netherlands will export much more electricity, and thus emit CO, than the assumptions of the ECN and the PBL in the NEV assumed. This is also apparent from a study by Frontier Economics commissioned by the Ministry of EZ. How does the Secretary of State judge this? What additional steps will the cabinet prepare? The current government policy is based on the continuation of the successful wind at sea. Is the Cabinet prepared to accelerate this? The phase-out of gas from the built environment is also a goal of current cabinet policy. However, there is a lot of new construction on gas and construction of gas infrastructure. What plans does the Secretary of State have? I'm coming to a closure. It is beautiful and it is very important that we ratify the Paris Agreement. This is an important step towards preventing strong global warming and becoming less habitable on our planet. They are big words, which sometimes seem far away, but unfortunately are already much closer than we think. This ratification therefore presents us with an expensive duty, because paper does not save our planet. We can't delay anymore, we're running out of time. The odds are up for picking up. Let this ratification be the start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate Mr Van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. If the dinosaurs had signed a climate treaty together at the time, would they still be there? We'll never know. We do know that their mass presence may have been one of the reasons why they were not there a short time later. They devoured food, they destroyed the surrounding nature, they got bigger and bigger, their living space got smaller and smaller, and they were big producers of methane gas, like greenhouse gas. If they had managed to make agreements about that kind of unhealthy lifestyle, at least for themselves, they might have lasted longer. But now we think we know it wasn't just their way of life that ended their lives. Volcano eruptions made an impressive contribution and probably also a hell of a collapsing meteorite. Never a dull moment on earth, you might say. Anyway, dinosaurs could do a lot, but thinking wasn't their strong suit. That was for a lot of life before the dinosaurs and for a lot of life after the dinosaurs. Take the cyanobacteria that, however small in themselves, can ultimately be held responsible by their way of life for the greatest ice age the Earth has known so far. Where the dinosaurs with their methane gas production contributed to a greenhouse effect, the cyanobacteria made a colossal contribution to a fridge effect. They increased global oxygen production in such a way that the heat insulating CO and methane blanket in the atmosphere was rapidly broken down. For three hundred million years, the whole world was covered with ice. People aren't dinosaurs and they're not cyanobacteria. What we share is that we are all called living beings and at least we are able to influence the conditions in which we live in such a way that they can make our lives difficult or even destroy them. No problem for the earth, it continues cheerfully and invents something else, but an existential problem for us people. Dinosaurs didn't think, so they didn't endure. That there is still something of the dinosaurs living on in us humans, you might see in those of the human species who still think that there is no point in using our minds to conclude treaties that contribute to keeping the conditions under which we humans can live as sustainable as possible, at least by human measure. Those followers of the dinosaurs think that there can be so many other causes that affect the climate that there is no point in focusing on one of the causes. That sounds reasonable at first instance, but when you think about it, it's kind of silly. There's nothing we can do about upcoming meteorites except make a movie like Deep Impact about it. And we don't have any volcanoes in control for now either. West of Naples, for example, lies the dangerous supervolcano Camp Flegrei, which scientists expect to burst by 2020. We cannot stop the eruption, we do know that there are 350,000 people living in the crater area and another millions in the immediate vicinity, which are therefore at risk. Or how about the eruption of the Icelandic volcano with that unspeakable name, which caused huge ash clouds in 2010 that drove towards Europe and obstructed air traffic over northern Europe for weeks? We can't control these things. But reducing greenhouse gas production cannot be such a big problem that it is a priori insoluble for humanity, if it uses its mind. Certainly not when we realise that 40% of that greenhouse gas is produced by a small part of the world: the United States of America and the United States of Europe, or the European Union. Surely two of the world's largest political partnerships should be able to limit greenhouse gas emissions? The fact that we are producing such an unreasonable proportion of greenhouse gas here in Europe and in America has everything to do with our capitalist production, whether we are talking about food or cars, houses or aircraft, the Internet or paper. Because of this in itself not very sustainable production method, we here and the Americans on the other side of the ocean have become by far the richest citizens of the world. Surely it would not be too much to ask for a limited proportion of this mass wealth to be used to adjust our production methods and thereby to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at least slightly and to help countries that have suffered less than we have in developing alternative production methods that are more sustainable than what we have practiced so far? Especially when you realize that global warming will, in the first instance, not hit the richest part, but the poorest part of the world the hardest, with water shortages, agricultural disasters and floods, to name but a few things. From this point of view, we should be a little proud that, unlike the dinosaurs, we have managed to conclude a climate agreement. Worldwide. Never before have so many countries signed a treaty that concerns all of us. The Treaty of Paris is unique and we as SP are pleased that on 12 December 2015 humanity showed itself to be of its best, in the midst of all kinds of examples of how often we use our minds far too little and therefore plunge each other into misery. Most countries in the world welcome the Treaty of Paris. One of the few exceptions is the most powerful country in the world, which has recently had a president who does not understand the expression "pacta sunt servanda" and if he understood it he would be fooled anyway. And remarkably, these exceptions include the second largest political party in the Netherlands, represented here by nine MPs. When you hear our PVV colleague at this point you think: has it really been so long since the dinosaurs disappeared? Why does the party representing one and a half million people defy all the laws of logic? The PVV does not see any contradiction to climate change, because it says that the problem does not exist, and if it already exists, it does not concern humanity, and if it concerns humanity, it does not concern us here and that the misery it may cause elsewhere does not have to be made our misery. No refugee is allowed in, said the leader of the PVV group, and she was talking about people fleeing war and violence. It appears that people fleeing flood, desertification, thirst and hunger and resulting violence will not have to count on the compassion of the party of freedom. As sad as the PVV's denial mode is, we are very pleased that the rest of the parties represented here understand the importance of the Paris Treaty. That is very important, because we can only make our contribution to this ambitious treaty if there is and remains strong support for it. And for that, we need to get to work as fast as we can. On the whole world, in general, in large countries such as China and India, with their billions of people in particular and with the greatest ambition in that part of the world responsible for most of the problem: the United States of America and the European Union. This step is urgently needed. Unfortunately, we have to note that the estimated reduction, i.e. what the countries have indicated they want to achieve, will not be sufficient to achieve the objective of limiting the increase in average global temperature to 2C above pre-industrial levels by 2025 and 2030. Scientists argue that if we keep the agreements, the warming will still be 3C or even more. So we are still not getting out of the danger zone; more is needed. No matter how small the Netherlands is, we too will have to show our best side. That is why I wonder: what is the position of the Netherlands in the Treaty? The exhilarating impression the Secretary of State made immediately after the signing voted me lucky. But the ambition seems to be a bit lost, witnessing the answers of the Secretary of State in the written rounds of questions. Will the Netherlands in the European Union insist on a higher ambition, now that the promised commitment is not enough to achieve our goal? And are we going to set a good example ourselves? Apparently, the Secretary of State himself was not too shocked by the news, and replied to the prematurely calling for the European Union's task to be adapted. It also refers to the five-yearly evaluations, which call for a constant adjustment of ambitions. It seems to me that in this case nothing is premature and that we must act as quickly as possible instead of finding out in five years' time that we have lost years. May I invite the Secretary of State to tell us how she will explain that "highest possible level of ambition"? The Council of State has delivered an opinion on the Convention and looks at what ratification means to us. The Council states: "The exact reduction estimate for the Netherlands is not yet clear. However, it is clear that considerable efforts are needed in the Netherlands and that climate policy is needed for the longer term. The explanatory memorandum does not show that the government has taken account of the exceptional extent of the implementation obligations imposed on the Netherlands by the Treaty in both policy and financial terms." That's quite a statement. The Council warns that the Netherlands is taking on an exceptionally important task, which I wholeheartedly support, but that we do not seem to know what all this means. Can I ask the Secretary of State to take us on board in how she intends to meet the obligations and not get bogged down in, for example, the energy agreement, but simply tell us what this means for people? Because I suspect it could mean that we can fly less. Less meat can eat. Less, different and also less fast car can drive. Less gas and oil can consume. Less stuff for the lowest possible price can come from distant countries. Less fresh products can eat that we have on the plane to come here. Everyone knows them, those strawberries in January. That requires adjusting our way of life, but then she has to say it. I am not saying that the Netherlands alone can fight climate change. It is a subject that requires international cooperation and solidarity. Let's get ahead of ourselves and have the ambition to be the best boy in the class here. We are indeed part of the problem, witnessing our position in Europe. After all, the Netherlands is known year after year as the dirty man of Europe. Last year, the Dutch industry released 94 million tonnes of CO, the highest level ever measured. In doing so, we are doing much worse than the rest of Europe, where industrial emissions fell by 3.4%. Total emissions in Europe decreased by 25% since 2005 and the Netherlands increased. Work to be done, I'd say! To reverse this trend is not only to defend a collective interest, but also to our own interest. If the dikes break, most of the land gets at least wet feet. 60% of the Netherlands, with 9 million people, is below sea level and is therefore floodable. The consequences for the economy can be guessed. But our country has grown with our age-old knowledge and skill on how to deal with too much or too little water and sun. We have nothing to complain about about wind, and we are allowed to exploit it firmly. If we perform in this area, it will also stimulate our economy. So we don't do it in any way for nothing. In addition, we can afford it, economically and socially. To set a good example is wronged by some but is still a very productive way of tackling problems. Let's see if we can, on certain parts, lead the way and inspire others. This contributes to our self-confidence and self-esteem. Practically we can start working from tomorrow, for example in homes. We regularly hear news reports about gas-free homes: houses built without gas connection and supplied with energy in a sustainable way. Wonderful, do it right away. But what about the millions of homes that are already there, with the countless houses that are still poorly isolated? Often there are people who are among the least earning, who spend 9% to 10% of their income on energy, simply because they live in poorly isolated houses. Landlords are not obliged to isolate and that is not going very well. Also the isolation of properties has not really taken off. In five months, over 10,000 homeowners applied for housing insulation grants. That is, of course, a drop on a glowing record. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we should work together to ensure that no gas is wasted and that we should no longer look away when it comes to housing isolation? When are we going to get these corporations to make their assets energy efficient? And how do we make sure we have more owners who take this step? The Dutch industry is also not getting away from taking measures. We are already working on the closure of coal power plants, but we can also make efforts to speed up the generation of energy by wind and sun. We need to move towards more and better recycling of raw materials. The transport sector can also be much more sustainable. Just look at the amount of trucks that don't run properly over the road. That was 25% in 2009. The Secretary of State can suggest to re-introduce the flight tax or, for example, propose a CO tax, as the British have already done. Previous speakers have already referred to this. In other words, I expect this Secretary of State to show herself from her most creative side and not be prevented by what lies between dream and deed. I would like her to respond to these possibilities and tell us how she thinks we are going to be organized in about 30 years' time. An agreement must be reached this autumn in which the European countries will show how they are going to meet the climate commitments. We have a very short time left, and I would like to give an opinion to the Secretary of State: let us ratify the Paris Convention quickly, but let us not forget that. Get that ambition out of the way. Do what you can to really turn the tide and show courage! I look forward to receiving the answers from the Secretary of State and I assume that she will talk to us about the concrete consequences of the agreements we made with the Treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u36	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. The tricky thing now is that a suspension has been taken into account from 4.15 p.m. to 4.45 p.m. That suspension must take place precisely because of the fact that there are committee meetings in which several Members of Parliament must take part. My information is that they have yet to take place. The meeting of the BDO committee starts at 4.15 p.m. and has a short agenda. It is said here that we can start at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u37	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I would also like to congratulate Mr Van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. I will say something about the content of his contribution in a moment. A motion has also been tabled in the first term. I can say in advance that the Chamber cannot expect an opinion on this from the cabinet, because of course it organises catering itself. I entrust it entirely to the chairman. I've divided my contribution into four blocks. Maybe it's good to mention this so that one can keep an eye on the thread in my story. First of all, I will answer in a general block the questions about the agreement itself, the relationship with the US and the nationally determined contributions (NDCs), as it is so beautifully called. Then a small block, with a few questions about climate finance and the consequences of withdrawing the US. Then I have a block for those who love it, such as Mr Schrijver and some others, on a number of further legal aspects of the agreement and the law before it. The last block is also really for the lovers and is about how Dutch policy works. The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016, as has already been recalled, and that is unique; eleven months after we achieved an excellent outcome in Paris. In the meantime, the numerator stands at 149 ratifications of the 195 countries that have signed the agreement. You could say, I am an optimist, that this time in this Chamber will not come too soon either. All countries party to the agreement are united in their efforts to achieve the objectives of the agreement, despite the announced termination of the agreement by the US. No country has indicated that it will follow the example of the United States or the United States of America, and that is even more important to weaken its own reduction arrangements. I am optimistic about that, too. With the ratification of the Paris Agreement, the Netherlands can send a clear signal. The European Union and its Member States are united in support of the Paris Agreement, as we reiterated at a very recent Environment Council in Luxembourg. Implementation of the reduction target of at least 40% by 2030 is at an advanced stage. Final agreements on the adapted emissions trading system (ETS), burden-sharing in the non-ETS sectors, the so-called efficiency sharing regulation and land use are expected this year. At the recent Environment Council we delivered a first shot for this. Furthermore, the parties to the agreement know that they are supported by local authorities around the world, as Mr Schrijver also mentioned, including several American states and cities. I myself recently went to work in California, where I, together with the Governor of California, Mr Jerry Brown, organised a major conference on the Paris Agreement and the opportunities for the Netherlands to cooperate. In California, too, the transition to a sustainable economy produces economic growth and jobs. I think it's very important to say that here. I will talk later on about the issue of acceptance and how we take people, but then it is important, I say to all the spokesmen, to stick to the facts as well. The facts show, for example in California, that this cover did not set them off, to speak with Mr Kuiper. We also see that business remains committed. Multinationals such as Apple, Tesla, ExxonMobil and Unilever have indicated their continued commitment. Mr Van der Sluijs asked what the Paris agreement promises. In the Paris agreement, countries have agreed to work together to tackle climate change. We do this by formulating contributions that are becoming increasingly ambitious over time. The contributions made in the run-up to the Paris Agreement are a step forward. Mrs Vos is right that this is not enough. All national contributions added together would amount to limiting global warming to 2.7°C, I say from my head. Then we are not yet close to 2°C and by far not near the view to 1.5°C. I do not know the calculation to which Mr Van der Sluijs referred about 0.05°C. That seems to me to be very pessimistic. The United Nations secretariat and climate agency assume a few degrees. That does not mean that the Paris agreement has no effect either, because a cycle has been agreed with which we have to consider every five years what extra can and should be done. Mr Van der Sluijs also asked what the climate agreement would do and what it would cost. The climate agreement means that all countries are working to combat climate change. They remain in conversation and together provide the right ambition. Bloomberg has made several payments of what the transition to a sustainable energy system would mean. Bloomberg also states that it is precisely the US that is losing by stepping out of the Paris agreement. The cost of the agreement also depends on the route we take together. This shows that the costs are lower if we start in time and bring about a gradual transition, with good international cooperation. That is precisely what the Paris agreement is about. In the Netherlands, the McKinsey agency has already made a short calculation, according to which the transition would be affordable. If we do what is necessary, we probably have a permanent growth of 2%. At the end of the journey, that would create a few tens of thousands of additional jobs. Many have asked what getting out of the US means for achieving the goals. What can we do to still move the United States to stay in it? What getting out of the US means exactly for the purposes is difficult to say at the moment. The point is that the "We Are Still In" coalition continues. There are nine states and many more cities, companies and universities which remain committed to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The fact that the federal government is withdrawing does not mean that there is no longer any contribution to the reduction of CO in the US. This is likely to be less rapid and less good than was initially promised, but the contribution cannot be set to zero. That gives courage, and that's what we're going to focus on. At European level, we have agreed to work together. We are not doing it alone, but from Europe, I say to Mr Atsma, with all those actors who do. This will send an important signal to business, namely that we want to continue. This is important for the long-term investment they have to decide on, because they rightly demand a form of certainty as to where they are at and whether we remain committed so that they can take the next step. Mr Schrijver asked what was expected of the US's announced exit on the elaboration of the Convention's compliance and monitoring system and on global climate policy financing. The pace until the US is actually no longer a party to the agreement will probably mean that this will literally be a day before the new American elections, so that is a very spicy moment. This issue will undoubtedly be dealt with in the next election campaign. Until then, the US can participate fully in the negotiations on the development of the agreement. We have to wait and see how the negotiators will do that. The American negotiators attended the first two official rounds of negotiations in May this year. They used to do it wherever possible. However, they did not have a mandate at the time, so that restricted their action there. In the meantime, it is important to note that the US remains simply a party to the overarching climate treaty itself and will also have to comply with the resulting obligations, for example providing financial support to developing countries. However, the Climate Treaty does not provide for a compliance regime. There can therefore be political pressure and there can be hassle, to put it bluntly, but there is no method of making legal consequences, for example. Mr Atsma asked whether the abolition of US aid would affect the 55% threshold. That threshold was only a condition for the entry into force of the Agreement. That threshold has been reached. That fact is no longer relevant for the implementation of the agreement. Mr Schrijver asked whether the bottom-up approach with voluntary national efforts is a threat, given the already great freedom of policy that the states of the treaty have. As a counterpart, he mentioned the Kyoto Convention, which provided for far more robust, binding contributions. The fairest answer is that countries have also been able to withdraw from the Kyoto Convention. Then you'll end up with nothing. Perhaps the mode chosen now is not ideal, but at that time it is the most real alternative. In fact, it is very special that it succeeded in concluding this agreement with each other in December 2015. A lot of people, including me, hadn't anticipated that in advance. This is mainly due to the improbably clever diplomacy exercised, for example, by President Obama and Secretary Kerry towards China and India in particular. At that time, these countries seemed particularly hesitant, but they crossed the line. In response to critical questions put by Mr van der Sluijs, I will now say a few words about the contribution of these countries. By the way, the Indian leader Modi is now in the Netherlands. I can assure the Chamber that climate policy for India is very important at the moment. The same applies to China, but I will be discussing this in a moment. Mr Van der Sluijs asked how the Netherlands' efforts relate to those of China and India, which will only reduce their CO intensity. The Paris Agreement stipulates that each country shall determine at national level how it contributes to achieving the objectives. We are doing this in a European context and will achieve at least 40% compared to 1990. We had our emissions peaked years ago and, as Europe, we continued the downward trend. China has said it wants emissions to peak in 2030 or earlier. The good news is that China has already reached that point. China is making a huge effort. India is already farther than has been promised. I admire that, given the great challenges facing that country. So it's going the right way. Moreover, per capita emissions in the Netherlands are still higher than in China. Mr Schrijver pointed out that the climate agreement made a rather vague statement that in the second half of this century, around 2050, there should be a balance between greenhouse gas emissions and nature's capacity to absorb them. He does not think that this is a very specific objective and asks how I see it. In order to stop the ongoing climate change, it is necessary to stabilise the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. This requires a balance between emissions of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere and their absorption into the atmosphere. In its latest assessment report, the IPCC, the UN Climate Panel, stated that there are different emission paths to keep temperature change below 2°C, but that all these emission paths require net almost zero emissions by the end of the century. The implications of the 1.5°C scenarios were not sufficiently scenario analyses available at the time of the publication of the last IPCC report, so it could not be said when net global emissions should be zero. It is clear that this will be far earlier than the end of this century. The IPCC will present a special report on this next year. It is true, I thought that Mr.Remembered that the Netherlands is contributing €50,000 through the University of Nijmegen in order to be able to work on that scenario report. Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Vos have asked whether we should move the target from 2°C to 1.5°C. In the Paris Agreement, we agreed that we should strive for 1.5°C. That is indeed a step further than the 2°C on which we focused for Paris and on which many of the analyses are based. As mentioned above, the IPCC is now studying the scenario of the implications of moving to 1.5°C. Before we discuss a new wording, we must of course know what we are talking about and what this means for the Netherlands, Europe and all the other participating countries. For this reason, I think it would be wise to just wait and see what the UN climate panel will come up with next year. As has already been said, the Netherlands is making a financial contribution, also to enable this specific study to be carried out, because that is what we think is important. He asked whether it would not be too late if the European Union did not raise the target until the next negotiations. Mr Atsma rightly said that increasing our national climate effort is an important issue for formation and for the new cabinet. With a wink, I say to Mr Atsma: you are there, implicitly. At the moment, I am committed to the swift implementation of the agreed European goal in European legislation. That means, I say to those who have cracked critical notes about the functioning of the current emissions trading system, the ETS, that this system needs to be strengthened. In February, in the Environment Council on behalf of the Netherlands, I tried very hard to do so. This has given us a unique position, because the Environment Council went beyond Parliament. Then we can say that this is not good enough, and perhaps I would like to agree with that, but we have achieved the maximum we can achieve. Indeed, Mr Atsma is right that the best and most cost-effective way to achieve our objectives is a well-functioning ETS. I shall be speaking about this shortly, including the idea of the minimum price. For an international level playing field, it is even better to work not only in Europe, but also in parts of the US, Canada and China, for example, with a real CO price and an emissions trading system. If I am asked what I am dreaming of, I have not been asked to do so, but I would be happy to answer that question. If we could do that, it would go a lot faster. This does not mean that efforts will no longer have to be made, but the international playing field is the same. This is important for Dutch industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u39	I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State is committed to tightening up the ETS, the emissions trading system. However, she also knows that this system is still not working properly, because there are a huge amount of additional excess duties in it. The price is super low. At the moment, the ETS is still being discussed at European level. Is the commitment of the Netherlands that the matter should be tightened up, that the additional rights should be removed sooner and that the ceiling should be lowered rather? Is that the Dutch cabinet's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u40	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u41	If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u42	Yes, Mrs Vos, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u43	This is a clear yes. The Secretary of State just said that she had some tightening in February but that is not enough. My second question is then: is she in the process of tightening up the matter even further in the discussions that are currently taking place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u44	I will always do everything in my power to do so, but I must reach agreement with 27 colleagues. The Dutch effort has been to sail as sharply to the wind as possible. We have a financial and moral interest in this. The moral importance is that it goes much faster when we have such a system in order. The transition is then easier for us because it provides money for innovation. Mrs Vos's statement is that the current system does not work in relation to the objective we have agreed on in Europe, but it does not. The ceiling is going down at a rate that keeps pace with the commitments we made to meet our target by 2030. It would only be much more beautiful if the price went up and there was more room for innovation, for example. I agree with those who say that the emissions trading system can do much better. The real price in the'shadow accounting', I say between quotes, because it is not a wrong type of accounting, of big energy giants may differ a factor of ten from the price we see on the market today. I agree that we need to go there, but not because we would not meet the current targets but because, if this price goes up enormously, we can meet the target much faster and much better. So I'm doing everything I can, but we're in Europe, so unfortunately I'm not on my own.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u45	I appreciate what we're hearing here, as well as your commitment. I have a slightly different question from Mr Vos. Can you tell me more about the nature of this tightening up? So I want to hear more about the content of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u46	We are working to get the ceiling down even faster and to get excess allowances out of the market as much as possible. These are the two most important actions discussed. We want to remove a greater amount of rights from the market than the European Parliament was able to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u47	In addition, you would like to be able to set a minimum price in the future. It is therefore a combination of this instrument and the minimum price.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u48	I'll get to that in a minute. This is a possible route at a time when the Netherlands would like to agree a faster transition with some like-minded countries in, for example, Northwest Europe. This will make a more cost-effective transition. I shall come back to that when I comment on the national contribution. We do have it in mind. The cabinet has also always said that a well-functioning European emissions trading system is best for all of us, ideally a global system. That is one of the reasons why I, together with Feike Siebesma, have worked very hard on putting a price on CO globally. He is on a special panel of the World Bank, at the time together with the French Minister for the Environment, Ségolène Royal; I do not think she is in it anymore. The awareness that the Shells and Unilevers of this world already have, must grow worldwide. So we do a lot of things about that. When we talk about big business, I come to the questions about climate finance. There was some warning in Mr Atsma's voice. I did hear it when he asked what actions the Netherlands and Europe are going to take to ensure that climate finance is not taken up by some countries due to the loss of the US. I agree with that, and we agree with each other that this should not be done by a few countries. It is an obligation, moreover, which the United States undertook to do as early as 1992 at the time of the Convention. This obligation cannot be passed on to other countries. The European Union, as the largest donor, will continue to call on the US, together with other countries, to fulfil their obligations. We can't legally enforce it. By the way, the Netherlands is trying to increase the number of countries contributing to climate finance. Rich developing countries such as China, Arab countries and Brazil can do more. We'll bet on that. I was one of the leaders of the European negotiating team. When it came to this issue, we have always been committed to it, and we will continue to do so. I agree that more countries can contribute. However, Mr Schrijver pointed out that the Paris Agreement took account of the special circumstances of the least developed countries and small island states. No distinction has been made in commitments, with one exception for financing. Other countries are encouraged to provide voluntary support. The Netherlands, of course, also makes its contribution. Perhaps it is good to say something about our contribution to the UN climate panel. I would like to thank those who have expressed their support for this. It's about doubling the Dutch contribution. Why have we taken action to deal with the loss of the United States' 1.8 million? Not only did we do this; it was not an all-inch approach, but rather an action in a wider European context, which I did initiate. That was necessary because the UN climate panel is the engine behind the implementation of the Paris Agreement. In the short term, funding for scientific research would disappear while the contribution can be bridged and we are not alone. That is why I felt I had to act as I did. That is really something other than taking responsibility for the contribution to the US$100 billion for the Green Climate Fund and looking at it in the same way; I agree that this cannot be done. I just said the necessary thing about that. However, this was necessary and it worked. I'm secretly a little proud of that, too. What plans does the Netherlands have for the Dutch contribution to climate finance? It is part of my colleague Ploumen's budget. The Dutch objective is to spend EUR 360 million on public climate finance in 2017. In addition, a further EUR 300 million of private climate finance is being mobilised. In total, this amounts to EUR 660 million. The Netherlands gives €100 million to the Green Climate Fund. The commitment is to further increase this expenditure in the coming years. In this respect, you need to think of more attention to climate, including in the Dutch international cooperation, water, agriculture, transport, energy, a greater commitment to climate by multilateral institutions such as the World Bank and the development banks, and a strengthening of cooperation with the private sector, including the Green Climate Fund and FMO. In doing so, we want to mobilise more private climate investment. One of the things we initiated in this cabinet is the so-called climate trading missions. One of them went to Indonesia and one to California recently. This shows that investing in climate costs not only public money, but also jobs and growth. We can only be very happy about that. A number of further legal questions have been asked about the meaning of the agreement and the law. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the provisions of the agreement have direct effect, what the consequences are and whether we are going to have a second Urgenda case. Those were briefly his questions. The Convention is not expected to increase the risk of a second Urgenda case. The aim of limiting the global average temperature increase is government policy. It is also part of UN climate decisions. The Netherlands has made a political commitment to this, because there are legitimate reasons for working together globally to limit climate change. That is why the judge can also include this objective in the assessment of the legality of policies. Setting this objective in the Treaty makes little difference. However, the wording has been tightened up, namely "well below 2 ̊C" and is now also aimed at 1.5 ̊C. This is "new" and a tightening-up in relation to the judge in the Urgenda case at the time. However, the Convention does not contain a key to determine what the national contribution should be. That is what we are negotiating with each other at European level. As a result, countries, including the Netherlands and the EU, have a high degree of policy freedom to determine the level of their contribution. What additional obligations, responsibilities and rights will apply to the Netherlands after our accession to the Convention, in addition to those already in force under European law? That was a question from members Van Dijk and Schrijver. European participation in the Paris Agreement does not mean that the Netherlands derive rights directly or indirectly from the agreement. Nor does the agreement impose any obligations on the Netherlands through European participation. The only way to be able to participate in the agreement as a worthy party is by ratifying the agreement itself. Without this ratification, the Netherlands can only participate as an observer, with all its limitations, and we cannot vote for it. So if we are now negotiating again in Bonn and we have not ratified it, then we are actually in the wings, so to speak. However, the Netherlands is obliged, on the basis of European law, to assist the European Union in fulfilling its obligations under the Agreement. That is the so-called Union loyalty. This means that we have committed ourselves to this before, namely in 2014 through the General Affairs Council, in which all prime ministers agreed on that 40% by 2030. We have to meet that, too. But in fact, you could say that this is separate from the agreement. Issues such as climate finance, capacity building and technology transfer should also be highlighted. These are matters which, in the current state of Union law, fall within the competence of the EU Member States. These are matters that can only be addressed individually by the European Member States. Mr Schrijver also asked whether I can confirm that the Paris Agreement is simply a treaty within the meaning of the National Law on Adoption and Publication Treaties. Yes, it is a treaty and that is why Article 91 (1) of the Constitution requires prior approval from the States-General. Some spokesmen pointed out that many other countries have already ratified it. Perhaps it is a good thing to say that we do not go to parliament in every European country. There are also governments that live by decree. I'm not saying I think that's a good idea, but it's gonna happen. And then, of course, it goes a lot faster. Mr Schrijver asked about the explanatory statement and the reporting on the three overseas countries of the Kingdom. He underlined its importance and asked about the state of play. Only Aruba has so far confirmed that co-funding is desirable. Curaçao and Saint Martin still have it under consideration. The actual confirmation of co-determination is a matter for which the initiative lies entirely with the countries. However, it is up to the Netherlands, if it so wishes, to clarify to the Caribbean countries the interpretation of the agreement and, if necessary, what obligations will be borne by the countries. The government believes that obligations that cannot be met by means of European cooperation, such as climate finance, will have to be borne entirely by the Netherlands. Nor will the countries have to contribute to the planned European contribution. But, of course, they have to reduce their own emissions. Only, they don't deliver a NDC, as it's so beautifully called, for that. Mr Atsma and Mr Schrijver asked about the triptych, what exactly the 1992 Climate Framework Convention, the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement mean. After all, the structure is not finished. Mr Schrijver also asked whether the Paris Agreement was not soft either. The Paris Agreement is legally binding, but has no compliance mechanism. This has been a conscious choice of the parties to the treaty, also in order to facilitate the widest possible participation. Therefore, as in the case of the Kyoto Protocol, a mechanism has not been chosen which, in addition to facilitating compliance, also aims to enforce it. This does not mean that parties cannot be called upon to do so if they fail to fulfil their obligations. This is, of course, done through the political negotiation process and worldwide in the public debate. That's what we're seeing now. Another possibility is the non-legally binding compliance regime referred to in Article 15 of the Agreement. In addition, there is the possibility of enforcing a dispute under the agreement under general international law before the International Court of Justice, but it is necessary that another party brings the dispute. Those are things I don't expect very soon. That's just a win warning. Mr Van der Sluijs asked how the CBS figures relate to the response of 30 May. The figures of the CBS are about 2015. These influence, among other things, increased economic growth and a relatively cold winter. Towards 2020, the energy agreement measures will contribute to the necessary savings and the share of renewable energy will increase from more than 5% now to 13% by 2020. Additional measures are also being taken to achieve the 14% target. I will come to that in a moment in my last block about what the Netherlands is doing. Many spokesmen have rightly spoken about this. Mr Van Dijk asked whether the government will ensure that we can give a national interpretation of the policy, that jobs are preserved and that no industry leaves for other countries. Mrs Meijer and Mrs Vos also asked about the consequences for the Netherlands. The climate and energy transition naturally has economic and social consequences. Almost all people will notice the consequences directly or indirectly. Climate and energy transition has implications for industry in general, and more specifically for those companies that use energy intensively in the form of fossil fuels. New technologies, energy saving and other behaviour lead to a different composition of energy production, and thus to a different composition in employment. Of course, the government has an eye for jobs and the potential burden on households. That was also the reason, and I believe we are quite unique in that, that we have asked the ESC to give an opinion on the employment effects of the climate and energy transition. I say it only once here: that energy transition will also have to be a social transition. So the word'support', already mentioned by Mr Atsma, is very important to keep in mind, because you also have to include people in all the changes that are needed. It is not just a question of changing energy sources, it is also a question of how innovation can strengthen the Dutch economy and society. This is also being worked on in the context of the Energy Agenda. Mrs Teunissen and Mrs Meijer asked if I would be prepared to carry out all the obligations without hesitation and submit them to the Chamber by means of a checkable roadmap, so that the Chamber can be kept informed of the progress made. With the signing of the Climate Agreement, the Cabinet indicated that it would carry out without hesitation all the obligations associated with this agreement. The objectives were set by the government at the beginning of 2016 under the Energy Agenda. It shows how the government wants to achieve the necessary climate and energy transition. This is currently being further developed. All these measures should be included in the so-called Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan, which must be drawn up by each European Member State. That plan should include measures leading to the European energy and climate targets agreed for 2030. The draft climate plan is due to be submitted on 1 January. The final plan must be completed by 1 January 2019. The cabinet will inform the Chamber of the draft plan so that it can be kept informed. In 2018, the IPPC reports on the efforts of countries. This will also lead to dialogue between the parties. Mrs Meijer asks me to confirm that this is going to mean for the Netherlands that the policy will be strengthened if the country report shows that the Netherlands is doing too little to get to Paris. That dialogue is in 2018. The dialogue is about Europe's collective ambition, not about the individual Member States. It is important, however, to keep a close eye on this so-called ambition mechanism, because in that context we must determine whether we are on the right track. In the run-up to this dialogue, the European Commission will analyse the economic and social transformations needed for the European Union in the longer term. This analysis will also feed into the debate on the European long-term strategy and the reduction path to be achieved in 2030 and 2050. The current Dutch commitment is in line with the reduction of CO emissions by 80% to 95% by 2050. Mrs Vos's next question was whether I am prepared to argue in the European Union for higher targets for non-ETS sectors, agriculture, mobility and the built environment, and closing the backdoors. The Commission proposal sets a target of 30% reduction compared to 2005. The Netherlands has been allocated 36% reduction in that proposal. That, I note, is considerably more ambitious than the European average. If a review of how national contributions are added in 2018 and if it is determined that this is not enough for Paris, there is a need to reconsider this non-ETS target, for example. By the way, in the current negotiations, the commitment of the Netherlands is indeed that the backdoors remain closed; no greenwashing, not all kinds of land use issues that do not include any extra stakes so that, in my words, you can pollute extra. However, that battle has not yet been fought. That's what we're in the middle of right now. I am now working with some of my more ambitious colleagues in the European Union to keep that back door as close as possible and at the same time to ensure that the reduction target we have been allocated remains that way. That's very difficult, but we're doing our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u49	The Netherlands, I understand, also has a back door around agriculture and transport, which it likes to keep open, namely the back door in which the Netherlands says: we have so many rights left in the ETS system, should we not use some rights for agriculture and transport in the non-ETS system? Is the story true that the Netherlands keeps its own back door open in that way, or isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u50	That is not a back door, but part of the European system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u51	It is a formal escape to reduce the assignment you have within the non-ETS sectors by allowing you to use what is left in the ETS system for that purpose. That seems to me to be a weakening of the ultimate goal you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u52	I wouldn't put it that way, because in the end, you have to make your contribution. We agree in Europe that if you get some 36% reduction targets, you can choose which sectors you want to do the most and where perhaps less. One country is also different from the other, but you have to achieve your goal. Eventually, if everything is added together, everyone must achieve their goal in such a way that we achieve that 40% by 2030, so there is no escape. Anyone who thinks this is gonna be an easier operation, I'm gonna take it out of the dream, because it's not gonna be. It will also mean for the Netherlands in each of the domains, whether agriculture, mobility or the built-up environment, that huge steps will have to be taken, including within the agreements that are now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u53	The Secretary of State doesn't have to convince me of that. I am convinced of that, too, but the question is whether the Netherlands is saying: either way, we are simply going to achieve that -36 per cent, that objective in the ETS system for agriculture and traffic; that is certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u54	We have already had the PBL calculate whether this can be done. We are already preparing to see that before we say to the Commission: we accept this part. The point is that we are not ready for this in the negotiations. The Netherlands wants to say yes, but there is still insufficient support from a number of other countries to do so already. This is because the negotiations link with the directive on land use in particular. Some countries indicate that they have a lot of forests, and that is not just Poland. The Scandinavian countries also have many forests. They wonder if they can't use them to do less in the non-ETS sectors, for example. Then we say: no, you can only do less if you do more demonstrably, for example, in the way you manage the country, because otherwise we will have an uneven playing field. That fight is going on. In fact, we have already accepted our share, our fair share, but not everyone has. That's the discussion now. Is it necessary to have targets for renewable energy and energy saving? The cabinet has been focusing on CO reduction for a long time. That is also urgently needed, because we are still not doing well enough in this respect. The use of renewable energy and energy saving is also urgently needed, but these are means to achieve the CO reduction target. Mr Schrijver asks about the Urgenda case and whether we are achieving the norm. The 2016 National Energy Exploratory shows that the policy deployed will achieve a 23% reduction in 2020. Further agreements have been reached in the energy agreement. This is expected to achieve the reduction in 2020. We are therefore fully in line with the objective of Europe. If that does not work, the cabinet will join an unnamed coal power station that does not do biomass. Then everyone knows where it is, but that's the formula. The national climate law has also been requested. A climate law can guarantee the achievement of the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement at national level. For example, you can formulate intermediate objectives and establish institutions and procedures that are necessary to achieve the objectives. A law, such as a climate law, can also offer stability, for example from a legal point of view, but it is up to the new cabinet to decide on it. Let everyone do their best in that regard. Then there's the coal power stations. In what way and at what rate can we reduce it? That was a question from Mr Kuiper. Of the ten existing, five have now been concluded on the basis of the energy agreement, the five oldest and most polluting ones. In the end, we in this country will have to get rid of our fossil addiction. That is no different, so the debate is not about whether or not we should, at most about the nature and the pace at which we do so. The same applies to this discussion. Minister Kamp and I sent a letter to the Chamber this year containing information on the various investigations into the phasing-out of coal power stations. We have also indicated how we may or may not deal with meeting the Urgenda objective. If it isn't, another coal power plant will be on display. A new cabinet will have to decide on any additional steps to be taken with regard to coal-fired power stations. Mr Van der Sluijs asked: what progress will the world make with the energy agreement of 90 billion if the move from 16% to 25% of renewable energy means less warming? And what is the Dutch effort for Paris? Maybe it's good to say the following. The climate problem is a global problem and must be tackled jointly by all countries. This international cooperation is not only effective against climate change, it is actually the only option we have. This means that all Member States must make their contribution to reducing emissions and that this contribution must also be increasingly ambitious. The Netherlands makes its contribution and takes responsibility together with many other countries. If we do not, and others do not, then we will see that the problem remains. Then we owe our future generations something. I also think that we owe some of the current generations something. There are countries in this world that already have to do with the effects of drought or floods, for example. The Netherlands can talk about it as a low-lying country in a delta about what it means when something goes wrong. This has serious consequences. Mr Van der Sluijs also asked why we do not pay attention to the growth of the world population. Within the Netherlands, and actually in a very important part of the western world, population growth is not at all a major cause of increasing energy consumption. There is, of course, population growth worldwide, but this means that in reality the challenge is only getting bigger. Mr Van der Sluijs asked whether it was true that there will be 6% renewable energy by 2020 and that we have 37 billion available for this. No, that's not right. Energy exploration will show that the share of renewable energy will reach almost 13% by 2020, or with a little extra policy at 14%, in order to grow to 16% by 2023. The necessary money is already earmarked in the Ministry of EZ's budget and covers the entire period during which it is funded. In fact, Minister Kamp kept the Chamber informed of developments in all kinds of letters and through his budget. Mr Kuiper asked whether a minimum CO price should be introduced. I've just said a lot about that. It is best to establish an effective European and global system. If we cannot achieve a sufficiently strong pricing within the Union, then the next cabinet really needs to think about additional policies, but preferably with a number of neighbouring countries, the most related economies. That's about six, I think. Then a minimum price is definitely an option. We have talked about this internally in our cabinet, but precisely because we are currently negotiating the ETS, we have agreed that our first commitment is to let it march. If that doesn't work out, or if it doesn't work out, there's always a plan B, that's how I learned. Mr Kuiper asked which pattern we choose for the reduction of methane. A cost-effective path is also being considered in terms of emission reductions in agriculture. We are now looking at this in cooperation with the agricultural sector. This also requires a decision to be taken by the next cabinet. I have done my best to answer most of the questions in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u55	I have one more point that I think is quite important. The Secretary of State himself said that the current policy is not sufficient to meet the Paris 2°C objective. She said she even wants to bring it back to 1.5°C. Do I understand correctly that the -40% in 2030, which is now meeting Europe, is in fact insufficient and that the Secretary of State also recognises this? So what is the commitment to set a target that fits the Paris climate goals as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u56	There are a few things to say about that. The combined contributions, including those of the European Union, are insufficient to get close to 2°C. We're gonna stick together worldwide at about 2.7°C. However, the European Union is actually the most ambitious party. Before we pretend to be very bad for each other, I would like to contradict that. So it's not. Does this mean we can rest on our laurels? No. As a result of the IPCC scenario or study story around 1.5°C, an increased ambition will undoubtedly have to be re-examined. Nor is it the case that the cycle of ambition in Paris can mean a kind of downgrade and that countries think that they can do less and less. No, they're supposed to do more. But for that you must first have all the data in a row of what it possibly means. We'll wait for that. So we are going to have this round of discussions, not just right now. That round of discussions will take place at the earliest in 2018, following the publication of the report. A subsequent cabinet will have to take a decision on this too. This applies to Europe as a whole, I say, because of course we are not doing this on our own. This is what we do to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u57	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u58	Secretary of State, you yourself have spoken firm words, and I have very much welcomed you on the step taken by the President of the United States, who has withdrawn. In fact, you say that he can do this, but we are not going to let it happen; we are just going to make it happen. Doesn't that mean you have to say "b"? Shouldn't you say that this means that we as the European Union need to do more? Isn't this the time to speak as a cabinet about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u59	We'll think about it. You can see that in the National Energy Exploratory. If we're going to run a little faster, maybe we can do it in such a way that it eventually leads to a more cost-effective transformation. That is why the Netherlands is looking at how it should make its own contribution within the current European agreements. It is still difficult to tell what the consequences of the withdrawal of the United States are. They are the second polluter worldwide. I also think they should take responsibility. I welcome it when, for example, states and cities in that country say: we will continue to do so. It is not possible for Europe, as it were, to take over that stick in advance. I think that we should stay with the ball all over the world throughout the ambition debate. If it is necessary, we must also take additional steps, but make no mistake: what we need to agree to meet in 2030, the most ambitious standard in the world, is politically already quite a tour. For example, all my energy is now in improving the ETS and making sure that there are no loopholes in all those non-ETS sectors and that everyone just takes their share. If we don't do that now, I can tell you one thing: in a year or two, that ambition discussion will become really hopeless. So it is important that we deliver now, starting with what we have already agreed. That won't be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u60	I was actually kind of waiting for the moment when the Secretary of State would go into the question of what it means to people. My question was: does that mean eating less meat, flying less, driving less hard or driving less far? What does it mean, for example, for home insulation and the like? Can the Secretary of State comment on that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u61	I can go into it for a moment, but I cannot give it a general consideration. For a lot of people, it's gonna mean a lot. For example, people who are now used to cooking on gas. They're not gonna do that at some point. We will make the switch in the Netherlands after the Second World War; then each house was connected to the gas to alternative forms of energy supply. Indeed, in the built environment there will be more and more zero-on-the-meter houses. I hope that the next cabinet will invest heavily in this. There is a lot of profit to be gained. Also in the rental segment, homes will be isolated and will become self-sufficient in generating energy. What the citizen sees is that the energy price he or she pays every month is falling sharply. So that's also a change. A lot more people are going to buy electric cars. So it is important that we work together, even with, for example, California, the sixth economy worldwide, to ensure that those cars are actually affordable in the future. With that, you have to organize the question. We need to invest in innovation. In the Netherlands, for example, we need to increase the number of charging points for electric cars much more, while we are already at the forefront of this issue in Europe. In 2050 we may not have waste. My grandchildren, I don't know if I'm going to get them, but I'm already lobbying, although that's very early. Maybe that whole concept of "waste" isn't gonna happen anymore. In 2050 we live in a society where everything is reused, including raw materials, and we hardly throw anything away. So yes, a lot is going to change. Is that gonna cause some people problems? It could be. Do we have to be alert about that? Sure. That is why we have asked the ESC what this is doing for the labour market. You can leave such a transition to the market. Then you know winners and losers. Some people have to figure it out for themselves. But you can also guide it, by early seeing that, if all these houses are renovated, for example, there are a lot of jobs in the installation technology and perhaps less in the coal plants. You could consider doing something about that, with opportunities for education and guiding work to work. So yes, it is necessary that there is also a social transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u62	The Secretary of State is now making it seem like virtually no one is really affected by this. Of course, that would be very nice, but I can imagine that at some point we no longer have flights to Zaventem, or flights to nearby German cities. Or that we do much more with car sharing. For example, we can oblige corporations and also property owners to really get to work on isolating houses. As I said in my contribution: 10,000 grant applications for residential insulation by private individuals in five months is of course very little if you realise that in the Netherlands we have about 4.5 million merchant houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u63	Mrs Meijer, I hope you have a question. Today we are concentrating on the ratification of the Paris Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u64	Then I'll make my question very brief. I would like the Secretary of State to make it really concrete who is going to feel the pain of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u65	Long story short, that's what you and I are all about. There will soon be proposals for all these sectors: agriculture, mobility, the built-up environment, which Parliament must say yes to. So you're one of them. You're asking me now: look in the glass ball. But I'm telling you, look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u66	In doing so, we have reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mr President, colleagues and Secretary of State. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. Of course, I listened to him with more than ordinary attention. The Secretary of State has dealt with a great many issues, and as far as the CDA Group is concerned, she has been complimented on what she has said here, especially since she has made it clear in a number of respects that the Netherlands, in terms of the commitments we have made, has so far at least been on track. The Secretary of State has also made it clear that, where further steps still need to be taken, this is primarily up to a subsequent cabinet. I think this is also what I pointed out in the first term. When we talk about the Netherlands on course in Europe, we must indeed look at it in the light of the steps that are being taken elsewhere in the world. I have not forgotten the global commitments we have made and the global commitments we have made. This brings me to the United States' share of the agreements originally signed by the US. At the time the US signed, the reference of 55% was reached. If then, as a result of the withdrawal of the United States from the treaty, at least the announcement of it, falls below that 55% ambition, that is not relevant, at least looking at the treaty-law side of the story. I hope I understood it so well, but perhaps the Secretary of State can clarify that aspect. A number of comments have been made on the ambition. Does it go far enough? In an interrupting debate, it was about 2% versus 1.5%. It is good to emphasise once again that the CDA Group agrees with what the Secretary of State said, namely that the other Member States and the other continents must also fulfil their obligations. However, it would also be a bit strange to start some kind of renegotiation now. I understand from previous publications that the Secretary of State himself is not in favour of this, not even in response to the American steps. Then I guess you can say right and wrong that you shouldn't change the rules during the game. First of all, let us make sure that the situation is as good as possible with regard to the 2%. After that, we could perhaps think about the follow-up steps. In any case, we should not take any steps now without proper justification. On the subject of the ETS debate and the pleas for a minimum price, which I hear coming along, I say: it has been discussed for years. I would like to point out that it is absolutely necessary that, if you want to make agreements on such matters, these should be global agreements. I just need to remind you of the discussions that took place years ago on ETS in aviation, in which Europe threatened to manoeuvre itself in such isolation that it needed recovery work. Global agreements are a prerequisite. That was also what I put forward in my first term, including the concern of an individual entrepreneur from the Netherlands, who asked above all for a reliable government and a sustainable and consistent policy on which he can rely, so that he can work on fulfilling his ambitions in his own way. In general terms, I fully agree with what the Secretary of State has said for the rest. I should like to make a brief assessment of the motion by the Animal Party not linked to ratification as far as we are concerned. The CDA Group does not need this motion, nor does it consider it to be proportionate to the subject we are discussing. Today it's meat, tomorrow it's fish and the day after tomorrow it's eggs or ice cream in the Binnenhof. In any case, let us ensure that we do not have to go to the fish stand next to this building for our last piece of meat or fish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for the warm congratulations I have had. They were all very cordial. Thank you for that. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Here and there, of course, we are not entirely satisfied with the answers, but there is one question that I would like to know a little more about. My question of how the CBS figures relate to the reply you have unfortunately answered very briefly. What I mean is this. The Secretary of State assumes a gross final consumption in 2020 of 2.047 petajoule. Due to the 4% increase in energy consumption in 2015 to 2,19 petajoule, this target of 2,047 petajoule disappears completely. This makes the share "renewable" no more than wishful thinking. Can the Secretary of State endorse this? If not, how am I supposed to see this? What I see here is that if we do not ratify the Treaty of Paris, we will vote hell and damnation on us. I believe that Mr Kuiper of the Christian Union used these words. Isn't that what you said?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mr van der Sluijs, you are speaking through the President and not directly against other Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u70	Apologies. Certain countries, such as Bangladesh, would be underflowing. My group believes that if you do not want a country to flood, you should build a dike rather than stop CO from going into the air. There is no scientist to be found who will confirm that Paris will limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C or 2°C. The model for the assessment of greenhouse gases induced climate change, a UN model, an IPCC model, does not exceed 0,05°C. I have one more question for the Secretary of State: what is it going to cost the Dutchman in the end?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u71	Mr. Chairman. My group is happy to endorse the words of appreciation expressed by Mr Atsma on behalf of the opposition for the role of the Secretary of State in Paris, the follow-up COP-22 conference, and certainly also for the somewhat helpfulness of the IPCC and other bodies around the climate treaty organisation. Fortunately, the number of ratifications is going well. I have just looked at the website: they are 149 states plus the European Union. So the counter's at 150. This means that we will not fall below 55% so quickly, even if it does not affect the functioning of the Treaty. It remains special that, in the form, formally technical, it is a full and binding treaty, but that parts of the content are more substantively the character of a declaration of good intentions. There are no direct rights and enforceable obligations to distil. Nevertheless, thanks to the Dutch judge, we have learned that such documents can have an echo, a reflex effect. For example, they can help to colour the duty of care of Article 21 of the Constitution. From the point of view of the Civil Code, this allows for further clarification of the point of danger and the standard of care. So, all in all, it's an extremely important treaty. My group will therefore be very happy to contribute to the adoption of the law on approval. It means something for the Netherlands. We will need to focus on an active, perhaps more active climate policy. Many hands will have to go. All sails will have to be rebuilt. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what the additional value of accompanying policies under Sustainable Development Goal 13 on climate action is. We have not actually been able to talk about this today. At the same time, we can see that it gives a lot of opportunities to the Dutch economy, including to the knowledge institutions, to business. The other day this was set out very strikingly in the New York Times for the Netherlands. All in all, I suspect that my group will adopt my advice to vote in favour of the adoption law next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u72	Madam President, I would like to apologize for speaking outside of you just now. You know I never do, but I was addressed by colleague Van der Sluijs. I am not an alarmist. There have been other words used; there is theologized.................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's how I'm in it. I do not want to be an alarmist, but I think that Mr Van der Sluijs's group may also be sensitive to the fact that we have something to manage and keep. Well, then you're gonna have to do the best you can. That was my tone, I hope. Many thanks to the Secretary of State. Our questions have been answered. I would like to thank the Secretary of State very much for her commitment, even in the past period from the cabinet. She has done this file with heart and soul and accomplished beautiful things for our country. Much appreciation and thanks for that. I think it is an important moment that this treaty with this meaning can be signed and supported by so many countries. We experience that, I think, as well. It will create a new framework and perhaps a game changer for thinking about climate and energy in our country. It has been said before: a subsequent cabinet and subsequent cabinets will have their hands full. My group will support this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u73	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her reply, which was both substantive and not less vigorous. I appreciate what the Secretary of State said about the importance of support, both for citizens and for businesses. For support, a sober approach to the climate issue is very important. The support is not served by apocalyptic language, which I have not heard the Secretary of State speak. Let us stick to the facts soberly. Without such a language there are many reasons to support an energy transition. The fossil stocks are finite. Combating pollution is important. If we become less dependent on the Arab world and Russia, that is a very good thing. Speaking of support, I can't help saying something about imagery. Let us not be mistaken: a lot of citizens see a lot of high-paying people flying around the world at taxpayers' expense to come up with measures to make flying more expensive. It's causing resistance. It may also give rise to the suggestion that there is a kind of hobby of a particular elite that itself is not affected by the adverse consequences that the energy transition may have. Let's watch for that. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her comment on the Urgenda case. As far as it is concerned, it is not reasonable for the Paris Agreement to have direct effect or effect. reflex action will have. That's not the point. I was also grateful for her comment on the social transition. I'm responding to the motion. I am a great fan of animals and for that reason I will propose to my group that we vote against the motion next week. I'm rounding up. I started my first term with the wise and relativizing lessons of Godfried Bomans from Erik: outside the list of our painting we don't know that much. I would like to conclude with the last line of the booklet, which is also a recommendation on how the climate debate can be conducted. The last line from Erik reads: "And here ends the history of Erik Pentecostal. It's all right! Always keep an eye on the list and don't worry too much about honey."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u74	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u75	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of my group, I should like to congratulate Mr van der Sluijs on his maiden speech. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for her comprehensive and clear reply. The Secretary of State is the only government person who drives a hydrogen-powered car. All praise for that. We also know her as an involved person in the conclusion of the climate agreement. It seems as if she has felt freer than ever since 15 March to put her ideals into practice. I am pleased that the Secretary of State is looking forward to the IPCC's report next year to look at the efforts of countries, but that does not prevent her from increasing her ambition, especially now that the US has left the agreement. That 1.5°C is a goal and we must work hard with it. That's the point. The upcoming cabinet will be decisive for climate policy and it would be very nice if progressive parties would stay sharp and join forces to prevent a climate-unfriendly coalition, even when the reformer comes to this house. The Secretary of State pointed to the Energy Agenda and argued that it could be seen as a roadmap to implement the Agreement. The fact that climate policy is only about energy is a much-heard misconception. As I pointed out in the first term, it is important to have a broad look. Even if climate objectives cannot be attributed to Dutch action, it is still wise to prevent jungle quitting in Brazil and not to cooperate by continuing to use soy from there as animal feed here. Solutions to the problem on our board should be an integral part of climate policy, including reporting on it. Much has been said about the responsibilities of other countries, but climate change is not just a European matter and it is not a far-from-my-bed show. The climate problem is very much on our plate and I invite the Secretary of State to do everything possible to break the taboo on that understanding. Then there are a few closing words. The climate largely changes because of our way of life, because of the great ecological footprint of Western man. Areas are drying up and other areas are experiencing large rainfall. The consequences are noticeable for everyone. Harvesting fails, drinking water becomes scarce, and it is the poorest to be charged. Once the climate agreement has been ratified, I also expect all parties supporting this climate agreement to commit to timely, adequate implementation. This is the only way we can restore the Earth and keep it viable for our children and grandchildren. A better world begins with ourselves, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u76	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. I have been waiting for a moment to see if you would comment on the motion you tabled in the first term. Because I'm detecting a problem with that motion. I'll be honest with you. We are having a debate today on the ratification of the Paris Convention, to put it briefly. Your motion is not addressed to the Secretary of State, but actually a general appeal to the Chamber. Therefore, your motion in its nature, purpose and to the addressee is not relevant to the present legislative proposal. So I'm wondering if you'd like to maintain your motion. There are just other ways, other channels to accomplish what you ask the Chamber to do in your motion, within the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u77	Is it possible to suspend for a moment so that I can have a talk with my group about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u78	You know what, we'll finish the second term first. There are two more speakers in second term and I will see if we can suspend a minute before the Secretary of State answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u79	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u80	Okay. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u81	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State. She is firm and clear in her statements and her words. I find that extremely pleasant and good. In fact, I hear her say: we are indeed aiming at 1.5°C, we are going to pass that on. But when I hear her like that, she's actually saying it's gonna have to be used to it, at least that's how I hear her. In any case, that is what my group thinks, based on all kinds of scientific insights, that we should not have more than 1.5°C warming to keep this earth viable and prevent serious consequences for many people worldwide, but also for plants and animals. The Secretary of State also says: we already know that with the plans already known, we are going to see an increase of 2.7°C. So that's way too much. So she also says: Europe is doing too little with the -40% reduction we have now agreed for 2030. She is right to say that much more needs to be done not only in Europe, but also in many other continents and countries. Given your firmness, Madam Secretary of State, I expected you to just say what's going on: the fact is that we're not gonna make it and we're not gonna make it. Then you, as Secretary of State, can simply say that more needs to be done, we need to tighten up policy in Europe, and that must also be done in the Netherlands, and a next cabinet must do so. Fine! You know the facts, you are the one who speaks firmly in Europe on behalf of our cabinet. I would very much like to hear you say that, because that's just the way it is. What we are doing is not enough; more needs to be done. You indicate, and I fully agree with you, that you are committed to tightening up, for example, the emissions trading system or agriculture and transport. You are committed to this, but you also say that it is not enough and what Europe is doing now is not good enough. So I would also like to say in that regard: much more needs to be done! I would like to make one final point. Surely it cannot be that, if we have a lot of rights that we do not use in industry, we are going to use them to expand our dairy farming or our intensive livestock farming or whatever. I hope I didn't get that right. What I do not understand from the Secretary of State is that she does not say: we also need binding targets in Europe for energy saving and renewable energy. That just works now. Why don't you continue something that works right now, not in the future? I really want to challenge the Secretary of State, because we only have to reach the CO target. I was a little surprised that the Secretary of State said that we are on course with the agenda and the energy agreement. We are going to achieve that 13% renewable energy by 2020. I would like to hear an explanation of this, because the latest figures from the CBS show hardly any growth in renewable energy and that exports of our coal plants would also increase significantly. I'd like an explanation on that. This dialogue will take place in Europe in 2018. I hope that we will at least agree that we are going to tighten up a number of things, but as far as my group is concerned, the Secretary of State is already taking action and, of course, a next cabinet must also work extremely energetic and ambitiously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u83	Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, the Secretary of State doesn't really mention the concrete consequences of the agreements we made, and she doesn't really go into the Council of State's warning either. I think that's a bit of a shame, because to bring people along, you better be very clear. In my opinion, people are willing to do or leave things, but then you have to take them and explain what's going on. I think we really need to change our way of life. That means eating less meat, flying less, more isolation, that sort of thing, and I expected a little more practical explanation from the Secretary of State. I also expected the Secretary of State to discuss the knowledge and skills of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is used to dealing with water, wind and sun. You can exploit that, but of course you can turn it around to your own advantage, and we can take great steps with that. I haven't heard from the Secretary of State about that. I'd really appreciate it if she did. The SP considers this Paris Treaty to be a good first step, a step in the right direction, and welcomes it wholeheartedly. We shall vote in favour. However, we expected some more practical measures, although we, too, of course, commend the enthusiasm of the Secretary of State in December 2015. Then I would like to say something about the motion, whether it is put to the vote or not. I think it is a pragmatic call to set an example, while, of course, freedom of choice is not restricted. A day without meat can make a big difference. It shows that we can all do some things and sometimes we have to change them. I am convinced that at least the catering in this house will ensure that we will not experience it as a sacrifice at all. So who knows what beautiful things that will bring us for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u84	I ask the Secretary of State if she has the opportunity to answer directly. That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. I will pass through the contributions of the various Members and try as best I can to answer the questions raised. First of all, thank you very much to Mr Atsma, also for his compliments. He asked me to confirm once again that the fact that the US is now withdrawing has no impact on the entry into force of the Treaty, or the agreement, as I have to say, with a view to 55%. That's right. It's a fact now. That can't be reversed. Mr Atsma said that we should not renegotiate when it comes to 2°C versus 1.5°C. Following the press conference of the President of the United States from the European Union, we have noted that we are indeed not going to renegotiate the Paris Treaty. I immediately contacted Commissioner Cañete the night that happened. For example, we will not now be able to offer individual countries the opportunity to do less than they originally intended to do. This is different from the system agreed in the agreement, where you look at your ambition every five years in order to achieve the objective of 1.5°C. That wouldn't be renegotiating. So these two things cannot be aligned, not even in technology. After all, the Treaty provides for the possibility of increasing your ambition in order to achieve the objective. Mr Van der Sluijs has asked a number of questions. I'm going to do my best to put it right; for some part this is hardcore Henk Kamp. First of all, the petajoules, which flew me around, and the CBS figures. The energy use of the Netherlands varies from year to year. That has to do with both, logically, the temperature in the winter........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ If Dutch companies are doing well and if they produce more, they also use more energy; everyone understands that. The energy agreement reduces energy consumption by 100 PJ structurally. Energy is also becoming more and more sustainable. From more than 5% renewable energy we go to a 16% share in 2023. With the NEV we monitor all the goals of the energy agreement, so that it does not become wishful thinking. We are on track to achieve all the goals of the energy agreement. How much is the Netherlands going to cost? This is considered in the context of the further development of the Energy Agenda, and it is clear that a gradual and therefore timely transition from an economic perspective is the most desirable. By the way, McKinsey has already made a rough estimate for the Netherlands. In addition, McKinsey said that if you invest 10 billion a year, you can meet the Paris goal. In addition, you will see that, in the long term, it would generate a stable economic growth of 2% and, in my view, an additional 45 000 jobs. But, of course, in the coming months and years, also on the way to working out all these tasks for the Netherlands, we will always reflect those costs, because we have agreed that we will do it as cost-effectively as possible. Moreover, it is a transition that not only costs money but also generates money. I think it's good to say that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u86	I hear the Secretary of State say we're going to approve a treaty when we actually don't know what it's really gonna cost. Actually, we're just writing a blank check and then the amount has to be filled in later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u87	No, I'm not saying that like that. We just have choices to make. The special thing is that the sooner we choose, and therefore do not wait, as Mr van der Sluijs's proposal is, it costs us less. At least that's something we know for sure. So the PVV recipe is more expensive, you might say. I can't help it. I come to Mr Schrijver's question. He made a number of comments on the legal significance of the Convention. I continue to point out that although it might have been more firmly regulated in the Kyoto Protocol, it is not a guarantee of success. Sometimes something can be more material in the end when you take care of it in a different way. Mr Schrijver asked about the additional value of the Sustainable Development Goal No. 13. It has been said worldwide: take urgent action to combat climate change and its impact. You could say that the Paris Agreement is an effect of that objective. At least that's how I see it. I would like to thank Mr Kuiper for his appreciation. It is true that I have worked with heart and soul, not only to bring about the Paris agreement but also to implement it in the Netherlands. I think it is very special that at least it has been given to me to bring ratification to a satisfactory conclusion in this Chamber too, I hope, and I would like to have said this here. It's something I'm grateful for. Well, that's nice, isn't it? Mr Van Dijk spoke of sobriety. I like that. I'm from Groningen; that's almost impossible. He is also right that, when it comes to support, we should also continue to think very carefully about the image that we want to evoke with each other. That is one of the reasons why I think it is important to explain exactly what we are doing with facts and figures. I think that's a good thing in the end. Mr Van Dijk has given a striking number of additional reasons, including political and almost more strategic reasons, why you should also want that energy transition. Those are all reasons I agree with. And Erik or the little bug book I'll never forget again. I come to the questions of Mrs Vos, who has said a great deal about ambition. The objective of 1.5°C is simply part of the agreement. That is not just a position I am taking, but it is, I think, a position that has been expressed worldwide. It is not for nothing that we have determined that there should be a scenario now. At the same time, Mrs Vos said that she would rather take additional steps now than tomorrow. I understand that, but in my world, it's really a huge tour right now to get the steps from now on done. That is also what we agreed with each other in the cabinet, and that has not yet been achieved in all situations. The entire emissions trading system is still being fought politically in Europe. This is also happening around the whole system of efficiency sharing: everything we have to do with agriculture, traffic, mobility and the built-up environment. It is not possible for countries to use their ETS rights to do less in the non-ETS, Mrs Vos said. Indeed, the Commission's proposal contains a possibility to deploy a very limited part of ETS rights into the non-ETS. But that would be a burden resort for those countries that cannot meet their non-ETS targets cost-effectively. As has been said, this is still the subject of discussion. The Netherlands is constantly trying to say: we do want flexibility in the choices we make, but we do not want greenwashing, because those are two different things. We're gonna stay on top of that. I have already entered Urgenda in the first term: if the NEV shows that we are not on course in the autumn, we have already agreed on an additional measure as a cabinet. That's the stick behind the door, even for ourselves, to comply with the verdict. Last but not least, I come to Mrs Meijer. She says: it is a pity that the Secretary of State does not want to name the concrete consequences. I have tried to say something about this, but the point is that this Chamber is going to debate this very extensively with my successor. We are now working in Europe to decide what percentage of CO reduction should be achieved. Then we have to choose what measures we are taking to comply with them. This will be partly a political consideration: do you do more or less in agriculture, what do you do in the field of traffic, how quickly do you want to do it? That's not my unwillingness, this is just the fact that we haven't gotten that far yet. But I can assure the Chamber that this debate will be extended. It should be, because I think it is important that we are completely transparent about this, even when it comes to measures that hurt. Yeah, they'll be part of that package. Because the drastic reduction of greenhouse gas emissions is not self-evident. But I hope we can do that. An important first step can be taken on Tuesday, when this Chamber will hopefully vote by an overwhelming majority without any vote against, I have already understood that this bill will be voted on. I am very grateful to this Chamber for that. I'm sure there are many who will feel the same joy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u88	Mrs Teunissen would like to comment on her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u89	Thank you for the time we have been given to discuss the motion in between. We have looked at the Rules of Procedure. I think the motion does comply with the rules. We talked about it in the context of the Paris Agreement, we talked about measures to tackle climate change. According to my group, what we are proposing in this motion is exactly what we need to tackle climate change. The motion is sufficiently signed. So she's relevant and signed. It is also a statement from the Chamber that we are asking for in the motion. We're not asking the government for anything. That's why I'd like to maintain the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u90	You're asking the government for something or nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u91	Nothing. The motion calls for a ruling from the Chamber. That is why we would like to maintain the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u92	I have already indicated that I disagree somewhat with you, because the motion would be relevant if it were addressed to the government. But now that that is the case, let's leave it at that. I gave my opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-27-eerstekamer-8.u93	Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote next Tuesday on the bill and on the motion.
