ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u1	I would like to welcome Minister Plasterk, who is now also Minister for Living. I would like to say to my fellow Members that you are trying to keep it a little narrow so that we can make progress. But you have the right to your second term. I shall first give the floor to Mr De Vries of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. I understand that you want to be brief, but the time that is now mentioned is not enough to do justice to the important law that we are discussing tonight. Instead of a privatisation law, the law has moved towards a law that protects the consumer. The Labour Party sees a lot of profit in that. In the first period, we made it clear that our criticism of the legislative proposal lies in the complex quality assurance system. That's kind of a tough point. We can only vote in favour of the law if the role of the competent authority becomes clearer, if the consumer is really taken care of and if the obligation of warning is further strengthened. Only then will we expect the incentives to make fewer mistakes and deliver more quality to be strong enough. We have amended the amendment tabled in our first term. Our amendment to item No. 15 clarifies the contractor's obligation to warn. If the contractor is able to make a price based on cutlery and drawings, he must also be able to make a real assessment of whether he can make it without defects. The aim is to reduce the number of cases where there may be a debate on liability. We see this warning obligation mainly as a preventive measure. We expect that a warning will always be accompanied by proposals for alternative solutions. We assume that certainly a non-professional client is sensitive to this and that, if he really doesn't get out, he will be looking for a contractor with more expertise. The same applies to professional clients, but there is always the choice to work for the whole or for parts in direction and to make other agreements about liability. Better to be clear in advance than to fight if there is a problem. In the amendment to item No. 16 We shall arrange for the contraaing authority to add to the licence application a risk analysis prepared by the contraaing authority. This is essential in order to give the municipality the opportunity to give substance to its enforcement role. The ex ante risk analysis allows the municipality to provide guidance if it considers that risks have been overlooked or if the proposed risk management appears insufficient. By determining those risks before the start of the construction, the municipality will be much easier and more targeted to determine whether the statutory performance requirements are met. We also want the amendment that quality assurance will be more risk-driven and will invite the use of pre-recognized quality certificates and technical applications for the more routine parts of the building. We believe that such an incentive to work at risk is urgently needed in order to manage the costs of the quality assurance system. We don't buy anything if we lower the fee, but on the other hand we see the cost rise hugely. In order to ensure that no unnecessary control is carried out in the quality assurance system, we shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the Quality Assurance for Construction Act is to promote the compliance of construction works with at least the statutory performance requirements;]] [[Whereas working with "approved technical applications" can make a significant contribution to reducing risks and significantly reduce the cost of quality assurance;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the establishment of a system of "recognized quality certificates and recognised technical applications" whereby solutions put forward by market participants are recognised by an independent body and subsequently only subject to marginal review in the quality assurance process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries and Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34453-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u3	Our last amendment, in part No. 17, regulates the responsibility of the contraaor towards the contraaing authority. The amendment provides that the Civil Code requires the contractor to submit, upon delivery, a file in which he declares and demonstrates that he has complied with the agreements in the contract of acceptance through good and good work and has also complied with all legal requirements. This is a great wish of Association Eigen Huis and contractors who already deliver excellent quality. The file also contains relevant information on the use and maintenance of the building and is transferred to a new owner upon sale. The part of the file that sees compliance with the legal requirements must be submitted by the client to the municipality as a delivery file, so that it can easily determine whether the legal requirement has been satisfied. Ten working days after the file has been submitted, the building can then be put into operation. If the municipality finds that the file is incomplete or if it fears defects, it may notify within 10 working days that the entry into service must be suspended until the problems have been resolved. We're assuming that the municipality is archiving a copy of that file. With these three amendments, we have sufficient confidence that the increased liability will be effective. We will then take the complex quality assurance system for granted. Of great importance, however, is that the insurance options are increased and that contractors who are going to make a mistake will feel that way in their pockets. We welcome the Minister's commitment that he will urge insurance companies to give contractors a considerable risk of his own. We also need a public register showing which contractors have had to deal with assigned claims, for which defects and for what amounts. That register could be a nice addition to the benchmark that the industry itself is working on. We ask the Minister to consider whether he can help ensure that consumer judgement is included in that benchmark. Consumer organisations such as the House Association and Association Eigen Huis would welcome VACpunt Living with a one-time contribution from the Empire and developers to work out their plan for a consumer hallmark. In the end, VACpunt Wonen would be able to move in with the Housing Association. Is the Minister prepared to discuss this with VACpunt Wonen? We are satisfied with the Minister's undertaking that he will urge the insurance companies to have so-called first party insurance instead of or in addition to the current guarantee schemes. These are insurances which act in the interest of the client and the owner of a building and which completely relieve them in the event of the contractor's bankruptcy or defects throughout the warranty period. We also welcome the Minister's commitment to examine how the rights of tenants can be secured in the new law. There are many situations in which, as far as we are concerned, further clarification of liability may be important. We ask the Minister to inform the Chamber in writing of how this law will safeguard liability in various situations. We also appreciate the Minister's commitment to embrace our proposal to set up an expert college capable of judging disputes and acting as an arbitration body with technical knowledge. Finally, I will table a very short motion on national monuments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to apply the quality assurance system to the cultivation and restoration of national monuments only at a subsequent stage of implementation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Albert de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34453-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u4	The Labour Party is going to support this; it is now clear. I do have a question about that. It is estimated that the guarantee authority will have a turnover of EUR 250 million per year of one quarter of a billion per year. These are, in fact, additional costs. There is no guarantee in the government's proposal that this amount of a quarter of a billion a year will be offset by a reduction of a quarter of a billion dollars a year at the same time. If this does not happen, then the cost of the building will increase considerably for people and for entrepreneurs who want to have a construction run. Why is the PvdA for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u5	Mr Madlener is now warmly in favour of my first motion. I tabled this motion to ensure that the cost of this quality assurance system does not go away. I would not like the quality assurance officer to check every part of the building, especially the parts that are repeated in the Netherlands in the building industry infinitely often. I therefore call for only a marginal review to be granted for recognised applications. I hope that this sum of 250 million, which Mr Madlener has read, can be reduced in this way and reduced to real proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u6	I hope so with Mr De Vries and all the Dutch who want to build something. There's just no guarantee of it. We also asked the previous Minister, Minister Blok, what assurance he could give that the fee would indeed fall equally, but we did not get it. I've been thinking about making a motion on this, but you're not buying anything for that. In fact, I think that the Minister should ensure in this proposal that costs are reduced proportionally so that they do not lead to more costs. We don't have that guarantee. I would once again ask Mr De Vries why he is so confident that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u7	The PvdA really flies it from the other side. The new system must remain as cheap as possible. We have to be careful that it goes through cost-making. That's why I tabled this motion. We support the call to reduce the fee, but we do not have as much use for it as on the one hand the fee is reduced and, on the other hand, the cost is rising. We would now like to ensure that the costs of the quality assurance system are limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u8	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister, at least his predecessor, at least the officials for the first-term replies. On behalf of the VVD Group, I have been following closely the development of this bill over the last three years. We have had general consultations with the previous minister, we have held a hearing, I have visited many times and I have been visited dozens of times by representatives of interests. The VVD considers that this bill does justice to all relevant interests. I would like to pay particular attention to the following questions. Is it clear who is responsible and liable for building errors or can mistakes be passed on to subcontractors, architects and other parties? Can we adjust during implementation if necessary? Are competition and innovation secured or is the new system leading to existing products from existing suppliers? Finally, does this system really lead to less costs and less public intervention? I have received a satisfactory answer to all these questions. It remains that we in the Chamber mainly talk about the scope of liability. On the one hand, I hear Mr Ronnes say that we need to reduce liability and, on the other hand, Mr De Vries that we should extend it. To make a bridge, who knows, it might help me file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[hearing interested parties who wish to reduce or increase the liability of builders towards their customers;]] [[invites the Government, at the appropriate time, to assess whether the scope of the liability not to be excluded needs to be adjusted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Linde. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34453-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u9	I have the same question to Mr Van der Linde as to the spokesperson of the PvdA. We just heard that there's confidence that the costs will not rise, but I don't understand where the VVD gets that confidence. Back then, Minister Blok made it clear that he cannot guarantee this and that he is not prepared to guarantee it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u10	I also did not say that I am confident that the costs will not increase. When I look at the cost billing, I see that there is a huge cloud of uncertainty around it. Globally, it'll be about the same. That is not the intention of the bill, however. The aim is to ensure that the liability of people who have something built is better regulated and that the cost of failure in construction is reduced. If you take that with you, it's gonna be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I welcome the Minister. It is not easy to fill in in the middle of this debate, because it is quite a technically loaded subject. In view of the limited speaking time, I shall immediately submit my motions and then briefly explain the amendment to my amendment. My first motion is about monuments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the construction and technique of a monument may also contain monumental values while safeguarding the importance of monuments;]] [[calls on the government not to bring national monuments under this law until it is established that monumental values are not lost by the division of building technology and the quality of monuments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34453-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u12	Then I come to another subject, which has already been raised by my predecessors, namely the construction fee. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Quality Assurance for Building Act aims to shift tasks in the field of control and assurance of building quality from municipalities to business;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to reduce the level of fees levied by municipalities in respect of building permits;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude an administrative agreement with the municipalities in order to substantially reduce the fees for environmental permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34453-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u13	In my view, there is just an administrative agreement to get transparency on the building up of the fee. Isn't it double-crazed to impose that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u14	Perhaps the Minister could take this motion as a signal and involve it and discuss it with the municipalities. We have heard from Mr Madlener's interruption that there are quite a lot of concerns in the Chamber or that the fees will not be double-up. We want to avoid this, so we would like the Minister to deal with the municipalities in order to achieve transparency, so that the fees actually go down. Then I come to my final motion, about VAC point Living. Mr De Vries has already said something about this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas quality assurance in construction requires a good understanding of the quality of use of housing and the technical quality of housing;]] [[Whereas the VAC point Wonen intends to develop a quality stamp, which focuses on the quality of use;]] [[calls on the Government, the VAC point Wonen, to assist financially in the further development of the quality stamp,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34453-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u15	Let me get this straight. I ask the Minister to consider the motion as a support to find a solution in consultation with VACpunt Wonen, to bring the process to a successful conclusion or to conclude that this is not feasible. Then I come to the amendment. Last time we had an extensive discussion with Minister Blok about private versus professional clientship. The minister's main objection was that the definition of professional client was too broad, because the small baker on the corner would exclude you from that protection. In the debate I said that I would try to clarify this in more detail in the amendment. We think we did this. How did we do that? We have designed the definition of a professional client in the following way: on behalf of natural persons who do not have a special expertise in the building from their training, profession or company. It is very likely that a baker does not know how to build and therefore does not fall within that definition. We believe that we will respond 100% to the Minister's concerns. We are therefore very interested in his reaction to this new definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u16	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the new minister to this dossier. He's falling in the middle of it. We have just conducted the parliamentary survey on housing corporations. From this we have learned that politics must attract the reins. The abandonment of public responsibilities and the confidence in so-called self-regulation have caused many problems. Eventually, people pay the bill for that. In the legislative proposal now before us, municipal building and housing control is being transferred to an entirely new industry of private quality assurance. The Group of the Party of European Socialists believes that this is a major privatisation blow. A system change with high risks is chosen. The SP does not think privatising quality assurance is a good idea. On the contrary, we want a strong government and good enforcement to protect the construction consumer. In the first period I referred to compulsory insurance. We want it to be compulsory to ensure the construction. In the meantime, we have tabled an amendment which will be distributed in such a way. What is regulated by the amendment is that natural persons are given compulsory insurance. We have had an interrupting debate on this subject in which, among other things, Mr Madlener has pointed out that he wants professional parties to be excluded from this insurance. Mr Madlener was not alone in that. There were other colleagues who asked for it. We have dealt with this in our amendment. Our amendment therefore ensures that consumers are given the protection they are entitled to. This will prevent consumers from getting nowhere when mistakes are made in construction. If you've made agreements about something, then it makes sense that you get what you asked for and not anything else. The amendment regulates this. It is also an effect of the adopted motion for a resolution Paulus Jansen/De Vries (32757, No. 50), which is almost Chamberwide. Only the VVD voted against. I am looking at those Members who voted in favour of this motion at the time. I ask them to vote in favour of this amendment as well, because it is the drafting of the motion adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the new Minister, who will be here in this capacity for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u18	For months!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u19	"For months to come!', I hear you. It could be good. We are not opposed in principle to privatising the control of construction; I would add that for the SP. We disagree on this, but we do have concerns, because we are going to build up a whole system and break down a whole system. Although the system of municipal controls did not function well, you can also, of course, choose to improve the system. Those improvements have already been made, but well, they have not yet been completed. That's true. The fact that the whole system is being overturned, but the costs actually continue to float, is a major problem for us. There will be a new system that may cost a quarter of a billion. I read that costs are estimated at EUR 250 million per year. Does that go off the fee? That's the big question. I ask the Minister once again what the costs for all construction workers and women in the Netherlands will be estimated. Are the fees going to fall proportionally? I also ask the Minister why this has not been properly arranged. I have considered tabling a motion, but I do not think that a motion is a good instrument for this. In this way, the Court may make a statement, but it does not offer any certainty that the fee will fall. The Minister said he wanted to leave the municipalities the freedom to set their own fees. We have often tried to reduce the fee here, but we all know that this is not possible. That is why we have no confidence in the development of costs. We consider that to be a major objection to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u20	Finally, Mr Bishop has the floor. I see he's multi-stakes today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u21	Mr President, thank you very much. First of all, I would like to join in welcoming colleagues towards the Minister. I look forward to working together in the coming months. Let's hope it lasts months for us too. At an earlier stage, I have already indicated that we do not consider the idea of investing in monitoring the quality of construction elsewhere than in a government to be illogical in itself. We have, however, expressed our concern. Isn't this moving too fast? We've had a couple of pilots. Have we tried the proceeds of those pilots enough yet? Those concerns haven't been taken away yet. In addition to the question of the manageability of the empty levy, they lead us not to decide at this stage whether we will vote in favour or against. We shall await the answer in the second period. We shall also look at what happens to the amendments, because in our view they improve on certain aspects. After that, we in the group will make up our minds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u22	We have come to the end of the second term of the Chamber. I understand that the Minister can answer right away; he has already stood for it. He has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u23	Mr. Chairman. It is good to be here to be able to discuss this important law in second term. I realize that I am now at the end of a very long process in which many in the Chamber have been involved for a long time. I have also been impressed by the huge number of social partners that are very involved in this issue. I am not going to name them all now because then I will probably skip two or three of them, but I realize that many parties are now watching over the shoulders of our politicians. That is right, because this package is of great importance, both for builders, clients and residents. Often these same people are involved in such processes in different ways: a builder is at the same time a resident et cetera. So I would like to thank many for taking part in this debate. I shall now come to the amendments. In the Government's view, a balanced package has been put forward, which implements both a number of public-law changes relating to construction quality and a number of private-law changes relating to the strengthening of the contractor's liability. I think those two things are well balanced. I am also careful to see that there could be a fairly broad support for this in the Chamber, although I realise that we will have to discuss the amendments first. I would very much like to see this important law pass the Chamber before the market is separated. I very much hope for that and look forward to it. Let me be brief, because this is the second term. I shall therefore confine myself, in principle, to the questions put to me in the second term. Then I will discuss the amendments and then the motions. Mr De Vries summarized the commitments made by the government in the first half of the year. Let me choose the words of the government itself for the sake of clarity. My predecessor made the following commitments. Firstly, in consultation with the Dispute Settlement Committees, he would consider how to improve dispute resolution and how to improve the building expertise in dispute resolution. Secondly, there is a commitment to consult with the Association of Insurance Companies on how to promote the first party insurance market. In this way we address the legitimate concerns of Mr De Vries. That brings me to the amendments. I am aware that some of the amendments have been amended to take account of the first deadline. I shall begin with De Vries amendment to item No. 15. The bottomline is that I'll leave this to the Chamber. I read the amendment in such a way that the aim is to strengthen the contractor's already existing obligation of warning. The requirement of writtenness and unambiguousness of the warning not only improves the client's position, but also provides the contractor with more certainty and clarity that the warning he has created will be maintained later. Of course, it does provide a little more work for the contractor, because he has to ensure that he has given written and unambiguous advice, but it seems to me that it is important in this kind of process that something should not be said afterwards as: I had suggested that it could collapse. That is not the intention, of course. It must therefore be done clearly and in writing. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. So 15, please, to the Chamber. With his amendment to item No. 16 on the risk assessment, Mr De Vries sought to ensure that the municipalities were adequately informed. I think that is also important. I would add that I read it in such a way that the municipalities use the risk assessment as part of their enforcement role and not as part of the work of the quality assurance agencies as such. That is important, because in this way the responsibilities of the quality assurance authority on the one hand and the municipality on the other hand will not be confused. Clarification of responsibilities is precisely one of the key principles of the proposal. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. So 16 also to the Chamber. The same applies to the De Vries amendment on item No. 17 on the transfer file. I have read the report of the first term with interest; that was immediately a good school for all kinds of aspects of this dossier. This was discussed extensively in the first term. I realize that the big contractors often keep a file, so for them it's a small effort. For some small contractors it is likely that they will have to keep up with what they have done. I can imagine that it is practical for a consumer, because once the contractor is gone and the consumer wants to take another contractor for follow-up work, when he does not know where a particular lead runs, he is actually stuck with the previous contractor, just because he has the knowledge that the consumer does not have as a customer. That can't be the intention. So I think it's good that a file is being prepared. Compared to the earlier amendment, the rules currently contained in the amendment are applicable in the Civil Code. Rules are also laid down for the final notification of a building to the competent authority. I would like to point out, as with the previous amendment, that the competent authority should use the file in the context of the enforcement task and not to repeat the work of the quality assurance officers or to check whether the contractor has complied with his agreements with the contractor. I therefore leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. The Bashir amendment to point No. 21 about compulsory insurance I continue to dissuade. As a former spokesman for finance, I would be concerned about the incentives you are pushing. That will be understood by Mr Bashir, who is or has been the spokesman for finance. Then a common interest arises for the client and the contractor to leave it to the insurer and thus, through the premiums, to others. So I'm gonna advise against this. Compulsory insurance is expected to be more expensive for the smaller builders than for the larger builders, thus reducing their competitiveness. All in all, in the government's view, good guarantee and guarantee schemes provide better incentives for the contractor to deliver quality. The Ronnes amendment in part No. 18 That is the last amendment; then, I believe, I have all discussed them all in relation to the distinction between private and business clients. Although I appreciate Mr Ronnes' efforts to update it, I still believe that the distinction made in the legislative proposal before us is the clearest. So I'd like to stick to that, too. This includes business clients of all kinds, large and small, for the most part professional and less professional, including the self-employed such as the bakery around the corner, and schools and healthcare institutions. I do not think it is desirable to give those clients less protection than has been proposed for a private client and also to significantly restrict the definition of a private client. Once again, I appreciate the amendment, but I do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u24	That's very strange to me. Last time we had a very good discussion on this part. The main objections were that the Minister at the time felt that the small entrepreneurs, in particular, who do not have the knowledge of the building, would then be classified as a professional client. However, the technical wording used in the amendment is based on certainty. The Minister considers that the definition in the current proposal is clear. It is not necessary, because everything is dealt with under the same heading. I would therefore ask the Minister to take a closer look at it. In my view, the amendment meets 100% of the concerns raised by the Minister during the first period of this debate. So I do not understand very well how the Minister can now oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u25	I have read well the Acts of the first term of the debate. I noticed that arguments in a general sense are often illustrated with examples that appeal. My predecessor has indeed set an example here on the basis of which he said that this could lead to incomprehensible consequences. In part, on the basis of that illustration, he did not recommend the amendment. So I see that as an argument, you could say: an abundance I understand that Mr Ronnes believes that this will remove the objection. However, it remains to be seen that clarity is also a great asset and that it is best for the applicability and practice to keep the distinction as it is included in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u26	There is nothing left for me to say but that we differ on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u27	I said that I regretted that, because I see Mr Ronnes' views on many issues. There was another request from Mr De Vries, namely to inform the Chamber in writing about investigations into the liability of construction consumers. I can promise. I'm gonna move on to the motions now. I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 19 by Mr De Vries and Mr Van der Linde, please join the Chamber. I also refer to the previous discussions on this subject. There are two motions on monuments. That's the motion in part No. 20 and the motion in part No. 23. As a former ruler responsible for heritage and heritage care, I find these motions sympathetic, but I would nevertheless like to discourage them by referring to the previous discussions on this subject. Quality assurance must indeed be tailored to the importance of monuments. Information on how monument status has been taken into account shall be provided when the building is completed. My conclusion is therefore that in the new system the municipality also receives the necessary building information that it now receives through the building permit. My predecessor did have several discussions with the so-called monument communities in the past year. I will continue these talks with them to see how they need further support in the transition to the new system. That is, as far as I am concerned, a promise. That brings me to the motion in part No. 22 by Mr Van der Linde. I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber on that. The motion in part No. 25 by Mr Ronnes is about VACpunt Wonen. It calls on the government to make a financial contribution. As we know, that subsidy has been reduced. That's a germanism, but it's been brought back, stopped. I understand that VACpunt Wonen is thinking about working with other parties to ensure the work is structured and that it is looking for new funding opportunities. I welcome that, too. I am willing to make a limited one-off financial contribution in that transition process to help prevent VACpunt Living from falling over. Moreover, it remains necessary that VACpunt Wonen ultimately provides other sources of funding. But I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I have therefore responded to the question put by Mr De Vries on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u28	I hear you've got the motion in part no. Twenty-four still needs to be treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u29	Excuse me. I'm coming to the Ronnes motion in part No. 24. There has already been extensive talk about the fee. I consider that motion to be a policy support. I have already promised to follow the evolution of the fee in the years to come. If the fee does not fall substantially, I will use my legal powers under the Wabo to set a ceiling. If the conclusion of an administrative agreement or the making of agreements can help, I am prepared to do so. You are speaking not only to the portfolio holder, but also to the Minister of the Interior. With all due respect, I can make this commitment and leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. There's always a bit of tension between housing interests on the one hand and intergovernmental relationships on the other, but we're taking this one step at a time. With this, I have given an opinion to all motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u30	I may not have been paying attention myself, but what was the final conclusion on the motion in part No. 23 about the monuments? Did the Minister discourage this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u32	I've heard that final conclusion, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u33	That final conclusion applies both to the De Vries motion in part No. 20 as for the Ronnes motion in part No. 23.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u34	This brings us to the end of this VAO. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u35	It's not a VAO. It's about handling the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u36	Oh, yeah, it's a bill. Hoho, you can see the chairman's getting tired, too. It's been long enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-11.u37	The votes will be on Tuesday next week.
