ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. From the global stage and the European stage of the debates on the position of Ukraine to the position of the provinces, and perhaps in particular Zeeland, that is a step we are taking here in a few minutes. Perhaps it is a consolation to some that some 400 years ago a discussion about Zeeland would have led to European political discussions. This is no longer the case, but it is worth considering for a moment the revision of the distribution bases of the Province Fund. That has been a delicate process. Any attempt to change the structure that has now been created leads to anxiety but probably not to a better result. It certainly does not lead to a result that can count on more support. In any case, the CDA Group does not intend to call that building into question again, but it still has a single question about future development. As far as I am concerned, not all of these questions have yet been adequately answered in the written preparation. That's why we'll come back to it. I would also like to make a few comments on behalf of my group on the position of the province of Zeeland. We have asked the government what dynamics it expects in the distribution system in the coming years. The development of divisive measures will vary from one province to another, thus changing the current distribution. What does that look like, was our question. We have not yet received a response to that. Are there any provinces that are expected to progress or decline relatively in the coming years? We would like to be clear about that. Furthermore, we do not yet know how long the proposed system will last. The provinces insist on rest at the front for a period of about five years, and the minister also refers to that period when he responds to questions about Zeeland's position. At the same time, however, the government announces that, partly on the basis of the Veldman/Fokke motion from the House of Representatives, an evaluation and a review will be carried out much earlier. A plan of action within two years and a review within three years. It is remarkable, by the way, that, if I read it correctly, the plan of action takes more time than the review itself. All this happens because the government is not sure if the current model is future-proof, as we read in the response. That seems contradictory to us. I would like to see the Minister explain again what steps the government is planning in the coming years and why. Does it prefer a certain stability, or has it not been discussed? And if the latter is the case, if we have not discussed it yet, why the step now before us? Isn't that a very complicated and perhaps unnecessary intermediate step? Does this not put the construction at risk by announcing the next revision? We would like to hear a response from the Minister. Then the position of Zeeland. There has been much to do about this and much to talk about, especially in connection with the position of the energy company DELTA. A committee led by former Prime Minister Balkenende has issued opinions on how to boost the economy in Zeeland. The Minister also refers to that. However, the position of Zeeland in the division of the Province Fund is not in our eyes. In fact, if the province of Zeeland is to be able to contribute to a substantial structural strengthening of its economy, it will have to have the necessary resources. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not want to call for an additional donation to Zeeland through the Province Fund. This would create a worrying precedent. There will undoubtedly be more provinces that use the Empire with similar arguments, and perhaps rightly so. We shouldn't want that. The IPO is right to reject that. However, the IPO itself announces in a letter dated 15 March 2017 that they are concerned about the position of Zeeland. This is why a committee of experts, once again chaired by Mr Jansen, has been set up to see how Zeeland's position in the Province Fund can be strengthened. One assumes a contribution from Zeeland itself, a contribution from the other provinces, but also a contribution from the Empire. We would like a response from the Minister to that letter. I understand very well that he is not going to issue a blank cheque here and now, but he could at least promise that in due course the government will discuss with the IPO the opinion of the Committee of Experts on how to reach a joint solution or follow-up of the opinions. In this light, we await the Minister's response with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. New or modified funding or distribution models for public-funded sectors are usually accompanied by heavy commissions, extensive technical studies and long-term consultations. However, the rule rather than the exception is that at the end of the course winners and losers are opposite each other and all in all there is a hangovery atmosphere left. This is also the case at present in the proposed amendment to the Financial Ratio Act amending the distribution model of the Province Fund. That is a pity, because as such, the Minister's commitment to achieving a significant simplification of the distribution model with the present legislative proposal is to be commended and more than welcome. It can be said that the path that has been taken to arrive at the modified model has been based on a number of principles which seem to be sympathetic, but which are not in practice. For example, the proposed simplification of the Province Fund should reproduce the old distribution. However, this is relative. Mr Flierman pointed out that just now. Although the sum to be paid for the base year is similar to what the old model would generate, the dynamics in the model then enter into force and the results change. There are indeed winners and losers. Moreover, in the case of the distribution model of the Province Fund, there is an additional complication, namely that since 2012 the distribution model has been based on fictitious returns on equity holdings. It's like we hired the team of box 3 for the Province Fund. In my group's view, this is undesirable for two reasons. First of all, this ignores the fact that there are very large differences in actual assets between the provinces, which are in particular linked to the previous sale of utilities. This is an historic coincidence that is at odds with the starting point of a distribution model that allows provinces to offer their inhabitants an equivalent level of provision against an overall equal burden. However, the practice, which is perpetuated in the model before us, is that several provinces are much better able than others to make large-scale investments in physical and social infrastructure and in knowledge infrastructure. In addition, matching mechanisms are not uncommon to further strengthen this inequality. What is the Minister's assessment of this state of affairs? Does he see any possibility of dealing with these differences in the near future? Secondly, working with fictitious returns overestimates the capital position of other provinces. In particular, Zeeland's problem is topical. As is well known, false assumption of income from DELTA leads to an annual actual discount of 10 million. The broad recognition of this problem is confirmed in the letter we received on 15 March. IPO. This letter states that Zeeland's financial position is of great concern to all provinces. Those are literally the words used in the letter. In this context, my group is not very happy with a number of framework conditions previously set out in the IPO for a simpler distribution model. This applies in particular to the first condition, namely that "the political and administrative choices underlying the 2012 distribution model are respected and are the starting point'. This concerns in particular the way in which differences in the capital position between the provinces are taken into account in the 2012 distribution model, taking into account 35% of the estimated capital income for the variable part of the remaining own resources with a fictional return of 3%. The reason for this was, according to the provinces, that this method of settlement was the result of a long and difficult administrative process and that, although there is a wide variety of views within the provinces on the desired level of settlement, a reopening of the discussion on the settlement of the remaining own resources by the provinces was not considered fruitful and viable. The question that arises today, however, is whether the Empire should follow only this difficult consensus and whether, in the capacity of the fund manager, the government's own vision should not be expected of the desired degree and manner of implementation of the settlement. We would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. My group believes that the present legislative proposal is an improvement on the existing distribution model, but we are not yet there. That is why we can agree with the proposal, but not without a clear commitment of government to share ownership of the issue in Zeeland and a confirmation from the Minister that the motion-Veldman/Fokke, unanimously supported in the Second Chamber in March 2017, will be implemented. This motion calls for a fundamentally modified distribution model of the Province Fund within three years with a fair distribution based on a more realistic return on capital. This means that a short-term solution to the problem in Zeeland is still outside the distribution model and a sustainable solution by adjusting the distribution model nicely extended. For example, it is better than at present to reflect the principle that a distribution model should enable provinces to offer equivalent levels of provision to their inhabitants against a globally equal burden. We await the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The aim of this bill is to simplify the complex and not transparent distribution model of the Province Fund. This is a positive development, as it contributes to a better control and control distribution of taxpayers' money. Moreover, after the sale of the provincial energy companies, it is a necessary step to consider the income from the provinces' own funds as a share capital. The PVV Group does have some questions and comments on this bill. First of all, there is the principle that the distribution model should be cost-oriented and so detailed that the provinces can achieve facilities in an equivalent position. On this starting point, the Council of State notes in its opinion that the cost orientation is important, all the more so because the administrative agreement in force since 2011 stipulates that "I quote "the provinces are withdrawing from the social domain in order to focus on their more important role in the spatial-economic domain. It was therefore agreed in this agreement that the provinces' position in the areas of spatial planning, regional economy, nature and landscape and traffic and transport should be strengthened. In order to make that agreement effective, adequate budgeting for the proper performance of these tasks is crucial." Furthermore, the Council of State notes: "In view of the importance of a stable and future-proof financial distribution system, the Section also considers it necessary to adopt a more cost-oriented approach based on the provincial core tasks and a more realistic return on the assets of the provinces." These comments focus on the relationship of the modified distribution model to the focus on the administratively defined provincial core tasks. Can the Minister indicate how the concentration on these core tasks will be implemented under the modified distribution model? Can the Minister confirm that under the renewed system the focus of the provinces remains on the spatial-economic domain and that provinces do not re-enter the social domain? As far as PVV is concerned, it cannot be the intention for provinces to redistribute subsidies to development aid organisations, diversity projects or multicultural hobby clubs through the Social Fund. I'd like to get a reaction to this. I would like to make a few comments on the purpose of the distribution model in order to enable provinces to offer equivalent levels of provision to their inhabitants at an overall level of burden. In view of this objective, it is striking how much difference remains between provinces in the increase in vehicle tax. This tax is levied unilaterally by motorists but then used as a general source of income by provinces. In addition, investments in road infrastructure by provinces tend to lag behind the revenue from the increase and the motorist is the milk cow for many provincial policies. However, opcenten were originally a target tax, set in 1965 to feed a national road fund. It was not until the early 1980s that the increases in administrative compensation towards the provinces became a general tax resource. In the case of provincial authorities, the argument is often that they cannot further limit the increase due to the adverse effect of the capacity of the vehicle tax on the distribution in the Province Fund. Can the Minister explain how this relates to the objective of an equivalent level of provision against an overall equal burden? To what extent has the position of the motorist paying the pennies been considered in the revision of the distribution model? Can the Minister indicate to what extent the increases will also be part of the fundamental review of the system in the coming years? I would like to make a few comments on the addition of the attribute 'own-fund income' as a measure of distribution. The question is to what extent this measure will produce sufficient results to meet the above-mentioned principle. It is precisely the provinces with a high level of equity that are increasingly developing loans to other local authorities. Provinces provide hundreds of millions of hybrid loans to the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten and the Nederlandse Waterschapsbank, as well as loans to municipalities and other public bodies, with a commitment to the highest possible interest income. Higher interest rates also mean higher risks. Often these are municipal projects with an unclear chance of success, such as experimental sustainability projects. For provinces in a position to grant such loans, income from the general part of the Province Fund is only a very limited factor, which makes it possible to determine to what extent the introduction of the share capital income is effective in order to achieve an equivalent level of provision at an overall level of burden between provinces. I would like a response from the Minister to this aspect. Finally, I would like to ask a few questions about the possible disadvantage for the province of Zeeland. In the response to the First Chamber it is stated that the Minister of Economic Affairs will make an effort to release "money in the order of EUR 25 million to contribute to good projects within Zeeland'. Can the Minister specify what is meant by 'good projects'? Who will decide which projects they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. "Similarly divided" was the name of the report of the Jansen Commission, commissioned by the Interprovincial Consultation, the IPO. The reason for the IPO to set up a committee was that the distribution model is too complex and not sufficiently transparent with regard to the provinces. Without going into all aspects in detail, the following point is striking. The Jansen Commission has put forward a proposal for a new distribution model. This was unanimously supported by the provinces and unanimously accepted by the House of Representatives. You would say: why is there still a need for a debate on this widely supported proposal? Maybe because the title "fairly divided" has almost succeeded, not quite yet. What's going on? It is then necessary to look at the conditions that have been discussed. An important condition for the new distribution model is that there are no redistribution effects. In the explanatory memorandum, the Minister says: As mentioned above, the new distribution model has no impact on the level of benefits received by the provinces. However, it appears that at least one province in the pre-stage raised explicit objections in the context of that redistribution. This concerns the province of Zeeland. That province has been mentioned a number of times. What's the problem? The dividend revenues due to the problem at DELTA have fallen sharply and are expected to decrease further. That is a fact which has also been recognised by the Council for Financial Relations. According to the Council, this undermines the requirement to take account of the differences between the provinces in order to provide for their own income. The Council considers that the solution to the business reorganisation of DELTA will have to be found outside the Province Fund. In this context, it is not appropriate to understand that the Minister states in the reply of 4 April 2017 that there is no reason to reconsider this point. He argues that there was no evidence that a reservation had been made and that there would also be consequences for the other provinces. Of course, all the provinces need to be reviewed in terms of actualisation, and then a redistribution must be made on the basis of fair standards. But Zeeland's problem is now on the table. It is not for nothing that both the Balkenende Committee, the Council for Financial Relations and the Council of State explicitly spoke on this subject, linked to Zeeland. Moreover, the IPO itself showed this in the letter to the minister dated 13 September last year. In the meantime, there is another letter from the IPO dated 15 March 2017, confirming the problem. It is not for nothing that the IPO has asked the chairman of the Jansen Commission once again to propose a solution. My group thinks that this is quite striking because it is logical that Mr Jansen should not undermine his own opinion. The fact that he has nevertheless accepted this assignment indicates that he feels that it is in any case important to restore disproportionate or improper effects. My group urges the Minister to weigh up the outcome of this new investigation and to see whether a concession can be found. I would like the Minister to give me an explicit undertaking that with the IPO and with Zeeland he will tackle this problem in concrete terms. I hope for a positive response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you. Does the Minister have an opportunity to answer directly? I note that this is the case. I call the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. The present legislative proposal simplifies the distribution model of the Province Fund. The Jansen Commission, set up by the IPO, the Interprovincial Consultation, issued an opinion to the provinces in autumn 2015. One of the preconditions, as has just been mentioned, was that this would not lead to a large redistribution as a result of the new distribution model. Another was that the differences in the capital position of the provinces would be taken into account, so that it would not change. The provinces unanimously agreed to this proposal. That's important to the cabinet. The provinces have repeatedly confirmed this, several times by letter in recent years, recently in a letter to the Upper House. I believe that the simplified model also has a number of advantages. That is also why I have been prepared to defend this bill in the House of Representatives and now here too. There are two elements in it that I think are important. On the one hand, such a distribution model must be cost-oriented so that the provinces can provide their citizens with broadly the same level of provision. Take a divisive rod like the mileage bank. That's expensive. It is obvious that a province with a lot of kilometres of shore should be given extra money in its measure, otherwise a number of other core tasks could not be fulfilled. On the other hand, you have to be careful with that, because if you start using too many divisive bars, you're going to perform steering. In principle, the province is an autonomous administrative layer which must be able to make its own choices. What is now before us reduces the number of measures from 19 to 9. The distinction between management and developmentaken lapses and the cluster classification in the Province Fund may disappear. All in all, I think, apart from distribution or redistribution effects, which are therefore minimized compared to the year before, I would like to talk about the dynamics that have a number of objective advantages. A number of decentralisation payments are also transferred to the general benefit, for example for traffic and nature, which will enable the provinces to better fulfil their autonomous role. There is a certain tension between, on the one hand, the standards that do justice to objective differences and, on the other hand, globality. This brings us to Mr Postema's question as to how to follow up on the fact that there is, in itself, a certain bandwidth in what could be a reasonable set of standards. It's not math. You have to weigh it, too. Every shift you make, you have winners and losers. It is important that all twelve provinces have agreed to this proposal. They did say to me: put a bow around it and don't sit in it. Then you always have someone who's just getting something better and someone who's just getting something worse, but then the carefully built whole falls apart again. That sounds like a wise advice to me. I've joined them. There is also a need for maintenance at the Province Fund. I had the intention to freeze it for five years, but the Veldman/Wolbert motion was adopted in the House of Representatives, which states that there is something to be said about this. The motion calls on the government to initiate a review process in two years' time, with a view to reviewing the foundations of the Province Fund three years later. I left the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion is universally supported. We will carefully take up this trajectory as fund managers, the Ministries of Finance and BZK, in consultation with the IPO. In doing so, we shall give substance to the implementation of this motion. The assessment of the measure of income from equity for all provinces will be part of the plan of approach. I come to a number of specific questions, but first in general something about Zeeland. I would point out that the aid from the twelve provinces I have specifically asked for this also concerns aid from the province of Zeeland. Zeeland insists on paying attention to its own financial position, but in a different context. I think that is no reason to withdraw the agreement on the criteria in the Province Fund. From the cost orientation it is necessary to take into account the income from own funds, but the overall character of the Province Fund implies that, after you have established that, every time something happens, for example, you do not adjust the distribution model again with the assets in the framework of a nuclear power plant or any other eventuality. Then you're gonna keep going. This model is therefore fixed for a number of years. It is based on normative income which, in part, cannot be influenced by the province. Actual yields may differ in subsequent years from what has been established in a normative manner. If we were to move in that direction, it would have effects for all the provinces. My colleague for Economic Affairs, on behalf of the entire cabinet, will address the specific issue relating to the Zeeland dossier. He is also responsible for the response to the report of the Balkenende Committee. It has already been reported that an additional 25 million has been made available within the national budget to contribute to the strengthening of the structure. The corresponding investment programme will be sent to the Chamber in the short term, with a response from the Cabinet. Let me now turn to the dimensions that are the basis for the new model. First of all, a measure is, of course, the number of inhabitants; a fixed amount per province set at the beginning. Then there are the number of millions of inhabitants, the population transport region, the inhabitants rural area, the mileage bank, the share of inland water, the vehicle tax and income from equity. This also answers the question raised by the PVV whether this does not open the door to another task of the province. The criteria are either simply objective, such as population numbers, or criteria from the physical domain. This is, of course, without prejudice to the fact that this is about distributing within the Province Fund. Another discussion is where the province spends the money. However, this has been discussed on another occasion; that knot has already been cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u8	I'm placing a brief interruption on this. As a result, the general part of the Province Fund becomes wider because less decentralised tasks are identified. This also creates more room for the provinces to make money available in other policy areas. How can more control be maintained so that at least the core tasks remain sufficiently focused? That was actually the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u9	From the state level, we have to observe that the provinces are committed to limiting themselves to a number of core tasks. This new distribution model doesn't change that. If the provinces do not comply at some point, it is primarily up to Provincial States to raise this issue. But again, I have no reason to think that they would not want to keep that agreement. This is not affected by the legislative proposal before us today and for which I also hope to get the support of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u10	Basically, the PVV supports the bill, but it's the next factor that matters to me. If there is more room in the Province Fund, it should not be the case that the core tasks are put under further pressure in the event of other considerations being made. It's not for nothing that this money goes to the provinces. Then a bit of effect from the Empire may also be expected to give that message.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u11	I understand the point, but at the same time I stand by what I said earlier. We are now going from nineteen divisive measures to nine, but they ultimately lead to an amount that is awarded in its entirety through the Province Fund and by which, as an autonomous administrative layer, we can do what we want. But we are bound by the agreement to limit ourselves to a number of areas, and that does not change because of the legislative proposal before us. But I understand the addition. I will answer the questions in the order in which they were asked. I shall begin with a number of questions from the CDA group. It was asked what dynamics can be expected. In some of the measures I have just mentioned, such as the mileage, there will be little dynamism. In that there is a difference between Brabant and Zeeland and that will remain about that. Of course, dynamics can be created in the population, for example by shrinking or by growth. Of course, that is always the case when you try to put the standards objectively. There is no plan to allow it to develop in a certain direction very quickly. I do not think any of these indicators will do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u12	I welcome the Minister's reply. I would not have assumed any kind of malice either, but the Minister's explanation of the quantities used makes it quite clear to me that this dynamic, apart from the population, will be very limited. The fact that there is some dynamic is all in the game. That's no problem as far as we're concerned. It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u13	I share that performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u14	I would like to make a comment in addition to this. In that sense, the explanatory statement and the answer to our questions are not entirely enlightening. In fact, it is always suggested that the distribution would remain the same. In fact, that is not the case. In the reference year it is buffered with the specific component, but after that a dynamic will come into effect, I hear the Minister say. I think we should establish that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u15	That's right, and it's the result of the fact that you're using standards at all. That's right. Mr Flierman's next question is how the implementation relates to the period of rest. Actually, I've already said that. The commitment was initially to secure it for five years, by the way with the support of the IPO, but then Chamberwide passed the motion to see if things are going in the right direction in two years' time. It will then be re-examined, with the intention of bringing into force, if necessary, a modified system three years later. So that's still five years after now. Then there was a question about the letter from the IPO stating that Mr Jansen would be asked for his opinion again; it seems to be very good. From the Ministry, we will support this and cooperate constructively. It is the responsibility of the provinces to decide whether one would like to transfer one another, from one's own resources and within the distribution model, to, for example, the province of Zeeland. I don't want to create the expectation that there will be extra money from the Province Fund. I would like to add that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u16	This is a good time to ask the Minister a little more about it. If we are not careful, we will have a situation in which everyone in Zeeland actually finds the situation very unsatisfactory, but that nothing else happens and that we proceed to the order of the day. Now it is so that it is quite extraordinary that all the provinces concerned have said that this really is a big problem. Again, those are the words that are used in the letter itself. It is a letter to the Chamber; perhaps it would be good if the IPO would also send such a letter to the Minister. I haven't seen that one yet. But I can imagine that the Minister also feels called upon to share ownership of the problem, where the IPO itself states that this is actually a shared responsibility of the provinces. The IPO also believes that Zeeland itself has a specific responsibility in it, and it also looks at the Empire. Perhaps the Minister would like to reflect on that a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u17	I understand the question, but I think Mr Postema understands the answer. If the provinces among themselves ask Mr Jansen to reconsider that distribution, to look very closely at it and to look again at whether anything could not happen for the province of Zeeland, they are of course free to do so. Then I'll support that wherever I can. But I cannot create expectations about the multi-annual budget of the Province Fund. First of all, I don't have that budget right now; I didn't cover it. Someone told me, and that's how I experience it: you're getting less outgoing; you get used to it a little bit. But it remains that I do not have the multiannual budget for the Province Fund. That goes beyond the limits of my responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u18	I understand the latter, too. I understand that the Minister does not want to make a binding commitment on this subject which has budgetary implications. At the same time, I do hear the necessary sympathy. The provinces themselves have indicated that they do not want to use it to solve this problem. But we also know that in modified distribution models some lubricating oil often helps to ultimately keep all parties in line. In that sense, I hope that the Minister or his successor will show a sympathetic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u19	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u20	Let me join in on that right now. If I also listen to Mr Postema's interruption, I think we are about in agreement. As far as I am concerned, we have not asked the Minister to say that he or his successor is pulling the wallet in any way; I understand that very well. On the other hand, in my view, it is also a matter of good administrative relations between the Minister of the Interior and the IPO administration that if such a report and the IPO acting on behalf of the Minister are to be taken seriously into account. At least I can taste that question and willingness on the part of the Minister. As far as I am concerned, that would be sufficient for the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u21	Thank you for that. I'd like to stay on my side. With the support of the IPO, this proposal has now been put on the table. This is what I would ask the Chamber to adopt now and make law: these standards with the resulting division. I take note of the fact that the IPO wants to look at it again. But I can't create expectations about additional budgets from the Empire. I assume Mr Flierman understands that. I myself, and I assume my successor, who will have a warm heart for Home Affairs, will do my best to ensure that there is sufficient room for local and middle management, including at this point. But that's all it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u22	It doesn't make much sense to ask the Minister for more. But in an earlier part of his speech he said that, following the Balkenende Commission, 25 million were coming for structural improvements in Zeeland. Surely it is not intended that what was intended for structural strengthening should be the solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u23	In your question, it has been decided that we have now created a problem with each other. But this is the divisive measure laid down by the twelve provinces, of which all twelve say: do so now, record it in the law for the coming years. In addition, attention should be paid to the specific problems arising from the situation in Zeeland. I have reported that my colleague from EZ is looking favourably at this and that the cabinet is facing this problem in any case. That is why there is room in the budget for this. There will soon be a letter from EZ's colleague on how to implement it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u24	But is it in the mind of the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the problem that lies here is being solved by involving the solution to a completely different problem, namely the strengthening of structures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u25	No, I want to stick to the underlying reasoning, namely that an objective distribution model has been established on the basis of nine standards, so fine tuned that they are in line with the historical distribution on the calibration moment. Afterwards, there are new developments that may mean that Zeeland's position may need to be strengthened. However, as I said in my introduction, this cannot be a reason to change the standards every time, because this is at the expense of other provinces. Then we'll keep going. That is also what the province of Zeeland advocates at the Empire. Once again, I say yes to the specific problem of Zeeland. All the more reason to pay attention to this when it comes to strengthening the structure. The Cabinet will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thanks to the motions adopted in the House of Representatives, we still have some time to come to a further development of the distribution model. Until then, the problem of the fictitious profit distribution of Zeeland exists. Does the Minister agree with my group that, when the Jansen Commission fails to come up with a good proposal, it is necessary to speed up the process of further development of the model?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u27	I agree, because we have already accelerated that process. The initial plan was to set these standards for five years. That's changed in two years. Again, all twelve provinces insist on leaving it at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u28	That is true, but the provinces also insist in the letter of 15 March that the Zeeland problem be resolved temporarily. I also hear my colleagues saying that we should try to highlight the problem. We have to deal with the problem of the fictitious rate of return. This may take some time, but we are eagerly looking forward to a good report by Mr Jansen II and the appropriate response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u29	I understand and support that. That's why I'm looking forward to that report as much as you are. Through the measure of income from own funds, it is possible to take into account the differences in income caused by the differences in capital. This will make equity more part of the evaluation of the distribution model than in the past. The fact that there are in itself differences in assets between provinces is not influenceable by the fund manager. This has to do with the history of the provinces and with the way they have dealt with their energy companies. So that's different. This measure must be based on a certain degree of resilience and a moderate assessment of revenue. Responding to actual developments would make a distribution model unstable and generate permanent redistribution effects. Then we'll be standing here permanently. So there are limits to what you can overcome. Mr Postema further asked whether the Empire had not been able to follow the consensus in the provinces. That is not the case in my view, because we have maintained the two principles that I started with, namely cost orientation and globality, which allow you to make it objective in a decent way. The reality is that administratively it would not be justified to achieve very large shifts between provinces in the transition to a new system. Then this house would be too small. I think it is a good thing that this agreement has been reached. That was not self-evident; I have great appreciation for that. The conditions imposed by the PvdA Group on the approval of the bill are a clear commitment of government to proceed seriously with the Zeeland problems. I just confirmed that. I would also like to mention the willingness to carry out the motion by Mr Veldman and Mr Wolbert. I have just emphasised that point. I have already referred to Mr Van Strien's question on the social domain in my introduction...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u30	Mr Van Strien did not ask any questions. That was Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u31	Mr Van Hattem. Apologies. The essence of the answer is that this is a distribution model, which determines the income of a province. Strictly speaking, that is separate from the issues to which the province spends the money. But I understand that by increasing the overall benefit, the tendency could increase to go beyond the core tasks. I assume everyone will keep an eye on that. I have no reason to think that they really have these plans. The review is, in principle, completely open. It will indeed be up to my successor to ensure that the review that will be launched in two years' time is properly embedded. I have already responded to Mr Schalk's questions in the interrupting debates. It is good to stress that the province of Zeeland also believes that this bill should pass, taking into account the specific situation of Zeeland in the context of structural strengthening. That's exactly the intention of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u32	We have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Flierman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer, which was adequate and clear. When it comes to the follow-up to the opinions of Mr Balkenende and his committee, the Minister for EZ is on the move. It is good to know that the cabinet is making funds available for this. This will undoubtedly make for interesting and exciting things to happen in Zeeland. Thinking of a previous role of the minister, he should be pleased that a Beta College in Middelburg is being considered, in addition to the already successful University College there. Then there will be a second Jansen committee at the request of the IPO. That committee is going to look at the possibilities of doing something about Zeeland's position. We have to wait and see what Mr Jansen comes up with, but he is a wise man and when I spoke to him this week, I did not have the impression that he was going to question his own opinion again. He will probably look at other possibilities that still exist to strengthen the position of the province of Zeeland in the financial sense. We await with great interest the proposals he has put forward. I have heard the Minister say that he or his successors will speak from their heart for the public administration and the provinces if there is an opinion and the IPO puts it on the table with the minister. That commitment is sufficient for me. I will advise my group to support the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, too, thank you for the legislative process and for answering the questions. We have agreed to listen to the commitment that the further development of the distribution model will be looked at with a view to achieving a return on the capacity that is more based on reality. We have also been able to discuss the Jansen II report on solving the problem in Zeeland. I have already indicated in the speech that it will probably have to be one of two: either Jansen's advice will actually be a solution, or we will be forced to speed up the current model, revised by this law. I will also advise my group to approve the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer, but as far as the PVV Group is concerned, the answer was not yet complete. The main point of my speech has not been addressed by the Minister. The key point is that this funding system of provinces plays a major role in income from equity. A lot of income comes from investments by the provinces at the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, the Nederlandse Waterschapsbank and from local authorities. We're talking hundreds of millions. For example, the province of Noord-Brabant, which has invested 100 million in the municipality of Amsterdam. It is just an example of the relationship between the financing of municipalities and provinces at the moment. Precisely because this is about such large amounts in relation to the Province Fund, the new distribution staff is actually a drop on the glowing plate in order to achieve more balance in the distribution model. That is why my question to the Minister is to go into this again: to what extent can this effectively ensure an equivalent level of provision against an overall equal burden between the provinces, if there are such large differences? My question on the taxation of motor vehicles has also not been addressed clearly, except that the review is possible in the future. My question was to what extent this has already been considered in the process of achieving the distribution model. I have not been able to find it clearly in either the report of the Jansen Committee or in the explanatory statement. Finally. I also have another question about the loans to the Bank of the Netherlands. A balance is made by the provinces, but a lot of pieces are kept secret. My question is a little along the lines of this. How can Provincial States make a clear assessment of how to deal with this, if such documents on loans are kept secret and how can this be properly weighed in the context of spending from the Province Fund? This is an interesting issue, also in relation to the possible circumvention of compulsory treasury banking, which is actually made possible. I'd like to have a reflection from the Minister on that. About Zeeland we have heard that there will be a reaction for structural strengthening. There are a number of major problems with the rehabilitation of Thermphos in the Borssele industrial area where there is a major financial burden for the whole province, in addition to the problems surrounding DELTA. I hope that it will come to genuinely clear projects that will benefit the province of Zeeland in the financial sense and that it will not just be an unclear commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u36	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much to the Minister for reply. I very much agree with him that there is a unanimous agreement. He's repeated that a number of times. I myself said in my first term that it was very clearly accepted by the House of Representatives unanimously. Nor does my group intend to vote against the legislative proposal. It's not about that. I also agree with the Minister that you should not always make adjustments to such a distribution model. In the case of Zeeland, however, it is obvious that it is already leading to such problems for the adoption of the law that Mr Jansen is going to look again with an expert committee at what exactly is going to work out. I understand, like other speakers, that the Minister, after a new report from the Jansen Commission, wants to talk to the IPO at least to see what remains to be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u37	Does the Minister have an opportunity to answer directly? That's the case. I call the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u38	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for the support they will give to their political groups for the legislative proposal before us. I have noted that we are looking forward to the new opinion of Mr Jansen and his colleagues. It is important to review the distribution model for the future. I apologise to Mr Van Hattem. I took the floor plan of the room, but you can't go blind on that. I hadn't been given a list of speakers. Mr Van Hattem stressed the difference in investment income. In itself that is part of one of the standards, but of course I cannot redistribute the power itself. He doesn't argue that either. The revenue from the vehicle tax is also one of the measures in the current distribution. What I can certainly promise is that this will be looked at again at the review, to see if it will not lead to unfair shifts. He also spread out about treasury banking. On that point he asks me, because that aspect is strictly outside the scope of the new criteria for redistribution in the Province Fund. Maybe I'm missing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u39	The mandatory treasury banking is particularly interesting in this area. The minister says he can't redistribute the capital of the county. That is true, but the government can lay down rules on how the provinces can invest their capital. At present, the provinces are given room to invest with other local authorities, at the Bank Nederlandse Gemeenten, at the Dutch Waterschapsbank to use it against fairly high risks. In this way, the obligation to circumvent treasury banking is sought. That has been allowed by the cabinet so far. If you set stricter rules, this could lead to a restrictive measure, which would reduce precisely those differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u40	I understand the point. Strictly speaking, that would be a measure in the area of my colleague in the finance sector. I refer to that on this occasion. As far as I know, my colleague has no intention of changing the obligation on this point. Anyway, I got it, and I'm taking it back. Finally, Mr Schalk pointed out that what we have now frozen at the moment of calibration as a new division which is one-on-one in line with the historical division, has actually shifted the legislative process. That's right, but I think this is inevitable. Now Zeeland comes out a bit lower, but that could of course have happened with Limburg, Groningen or another province. Then there would probably have been spokesmen here asking: what is going on now? If you work with standards and try to make them objective, you do so at a calibration point and you face the fact that it can then start to slide slightly if there are specific reasons for doing so, for example if there is something going on with the structure. It's true in Zeeland. My tendency is not to shift the distribution model again, but to take structural measures. That is also the intention of the cabinet. I hope that this will enable us to meet Mr Schalk. My colleague from EZ will be sending a letter to the Chamber shortly. I thought I answered all the questions that have been asked. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-8.u42	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That is not the case.
