ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome everyone: the people in the public gallery, the MPs and, in particular, the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	I see new names this morning. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My party, the Party for Freedom, sees it as its task to name and close the gaping gap between citizens and politics. We've been doing that for many years. This is essential in order to maintain support for policies among the population; an objective that every representative of the people should put first. I want to start by naming the gap. On the one hand, the ordinary, hardworking Dutchman stands with common sense, on the other hand, the politically correct elitist driver with the makeable global society ideal. Development aid is an area where the distance between the two is extremely large, although that is not always clear. I will explain the latter on the basis of an example. In order to find out exactly what the average Dutchman means by development aid, I have just informed a number of people that some of these facts: do you know that in 2018 as much as 2,700 million euros of Dutch tax money will go to the third world and that this amount will increase in the coming years? Do you know that in 2018 alone, the Netherlands will spend 400 million a year on public climate-relevant expenditure in developing countries? Do you know that the current OS policy focuses on issues such as gender sensitivity and gender identity? Do you know that projects such as a Roma radio station in Ukraine and an inventory project for traditional Tibetan music in China are funded under the heading "human rights'? Do you know that in Somalia Dutch money is used to finance courts where law will be spoken on the basis of Sharia? Do you know that in Ethiopia Dutch money is being worked on a kind of shower radar app for farmers, with the corresponding 3G network? Do you know that the American billion-dollar company Apple receives money from the Dutch government to win slave-free raw materials for the production of its well-known iPhones? The facial expression of those questioned was one of bewilderment. Turns out what? The average Dutchman thinks of other things in development aid, such as the distribution of bags of rice and grain, water wells in the desert, distribution of malaria drugs and building schools in Africa. The current OS policy is unrecognizable and incomprehensible to him. I suspect that this debate is not going to contribute to greater understanding, with the many abbreviations and English terms, the complicated financing structures and the expected discussion on indicators and zero measurements: "SDG's', "SDG', "S'imvo', "DG', "DG', "FMO', "RVO'; the language could have been Chinese today as well. The viewer will wonder what this is about? And then, uh... and then, uh... and then, uh... That's too bad, because that's a fair question. And it's a huge amount of money, paid by the taxpayer. Development aid has become a complete industry in recent years, with thousands of NGOs and hundreds of thousands of left-wing idealists earning their living. One may wonder whether they really have an interest in the fact that Africa can actually stand on its own feet. Instead of asking that question, our government measures the effectiveness of OS policy on the basis of data provided correctly by all those interested NGOs, who want to continue receiving Dutch tax money. The OECD has estimated that the total investment required for developing countries to achieve the SDGs would amount to USD 3.9 trillion a year. 3.9 trillion, that's 3,900 billion a year! An astronomically high amount beyond any imagination. Over the past decades, many tens of billions of Dutch taxpayers' money have also been thrown into the bottomless pit of the Third World. This new government is going through with it unflinchingly. She's even paying an extra €1 billion for it. The amount that flows through this budget is only a fraction, because development funds are also sent to Africa through other budgets, local authorities, such as provinces and municipalities, and even drinking water companies. And that while recent opinion polls show that Dutch people are clean enough of the subsidy circus in Africa. One in three agrees with the PVV's view that there should be no more money for development aid. More than a third prefer to help people in the Netherlands first. How does the Minister view this lack of support for current policies? What is the consequence of this? Mr. Chairman. Should we not carefully ask ourselves whether Africa would not have been further developed if we had not made it so dependent on the Western subsidy infusion? Wouldn't the locals have been much more inclined to put their backs on it if the Western world hadn't interfered as a helicopter parent or neo-colonialist everywhere? You can't say they can't save themselves if you've never let them? I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this. Reveals about fraudulent projects or about themselves enriching African dictators are numerous. Recently it became clear that EUR 1.6 million had disappeared from an organisation of MEPs. The Amsterdam Court officially declared AWEPA bankrupt a month ago, so at least that money won't come back. What about the forensic investigation into the million-dollar fraud at AWEPA, I ask the Minister. When will the Court see the results of this? Mr. Chairman. The government has not been completely deaf to the growing criticism from society of OS policy. It has set up a system of performance indicators to assess the effectiveness of projects and policies. A smokescreen, because, as mentioned earlier, the raw data tested from self-reports are provided by interested international organisations and NGOs. Furthermore, this cabinet is fully committed to the new model of income designed to shape development aid. It is now a question of combating the effects of global climate change. That last point is even mentioned by the cabinet as one of the root causes of migratory flows. With the earning model, it hopes to silence criticism from society. After all, the Dutch citizen does not want millions of migrants from Africa, or a sea level rise of a few meters? Pure scaremongering. The PVV will pay particular attention to the development of the Paris climate agreement, which developing countries will not have to comply with for the time being. It also agreed that rich countries will be helping climate-related investments in developing countries by USD 100 billion a year from 2020. More than 140 countries, including major powers such as China and India, have now been identified as developing countries. The Paris bill must therefore in fact be paid by a small number, only 50 rich countries. That already indicates that the Netherlands, as one of those rich countries, will be badly hit. Rutte III therefore requires you to bend not only for wind farms in the North Sea, but also for those in Africa. Other parties in the Chamber share the fear of the government created by the climate religious. Meanwhile, they are staring blindly at the measurability and effectiveness of OS policies. The PVV wants a serious discussion about the existence of the current OS policy. This policy consists of absurd policy choices and countless crazy projects that no sane person can see the usefulness of, regardless of whether these projects have been properly implemented or not. Now to the question of how to close the gap between citizens and politics. To this end, the PVV wants a total halt on government development aid. Not a penny more tax money to the Third World. The Dutch people are known as very generous. The Netherlands has scored high in charity indices for years. The Dutch citizen can therefore very well decide whether, and if so to what charity, he spends his hard-earned money. The proceeds of Giro555 and other giro actions also give that confidence. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying a few words about trade policy. The cabinet remains committed to multilateral trade agreements negotiated by the unelected European Commission. This is because, according to the cabinet, the Netherlands is too small and too insignificant to conclude trade agreements on its own. At the same time, in the event of disappointing negotiating results, the Minister himself admits that the Netherlands cannot impose its will on the 27 other Member States and the European Commission. What a split. And what a total lack of ambition. This cabinet, like the previous cabinet, will fully submit to the Brussels superstate. The Netherlands deserves better, much better. Our country needs leaders with guts, leaders who dare to represent the interests of the Dutch people, who dare to resist the wrath of Brussels, who opt for the Netherlands and therefore for the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the VVD, I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister in our committee to her first major plenary debate. Budgetary treatment may seem a little quick after her arrival, but I have known a little bit about what it feels like since Thursday. I have the honour to speak on behalf of the VVD and that was known to me that Thursday. Fortunately, with my predecessor Yeşilgöz, I was able to prepare this debate well, as we, as colleagues, have always done on the basis of the conviction that aid and trade go hand in hand. And not a better time as a new spokesman to start with than with the budget and also a bit of discussion of the coalition agreement. Let me start with foreign trade. On this subject, apart from a few phrases about agreements with business, there is not much written down in the coalition agreement, but I see that as an opportunity for the Chamber. My input therefore begins today with an ode to trade. Unfortunately, in recent years, trade has disappeared from time to time in the context of our debates and to the last page of the budget, but it must never disappear in the margins of policy as far as the VVD is concerned. Trade deserves priority from this Minister and this Chamber, because we are a trading country. We earn a large part of our national income, 32 cents of every euro in recent years. 2.2 million Dutch jobs are connected. Our innovative medical devices, our energy solutions, food improvements, smart applications in cities and so on, they are not only products that we benefit from in the Netherlands, they are our earning model in the world. Dutch high-quality products and innovations give us prosperity and also the financial resources to continue to finance the welfare state in the future. At the same time, they often make the world a lot better. That all sounds nice, but is not self-evident. If we want to maintain our trading position as the Netherlands and rather strengthen it, then there is work to be done. I am not just saying that, but the Dutch business community is asking for this too. In the advisory report Team Nederland, they set the goal of earning 40% of national income by trade in 2030. As far as the VVD is concerned, politics must be an ambitious partner. Does this minister agree with us? The VVD challenges the Minister to come up with a proactive trade agenda that does justice to the importance of Dutch business. Will the Minister pick that up? Is it also prepared to take on board the ideas that business itself has put forward, for example in a round table which the VVD recently initiated in the Chamber? And in order to encourage and inspire the Minister for such a trade agenda, I would like to mention briefly five of the wishes of the companies they have placed with us as Chambers. Firstly, SMEs sometimes found it difficult to make use of the export support schemes, or to do so too little, often because they do not know or find them inaccessible. Is the Minister prepared to improve the use of instruments such as the Dutch Trade and Investment Fund and the Dutch Good Growth Fund, also on the basis of the evaluation of the DGGF and the disappointing outcome of the third track within it? Secondly, lending. The role of the banks has changed. In the past, there were many active banks that wanted to make capital available for export activities and projects abroad. Now we have heard from companies that banks often want to advise them, but they do not always want to finance them. Companies suggested the possibility of more guarantees through Invest-NL, among others, but Qredits' idea of providing small loans to small entrepreneurs for export was also suggested. How does the Minister intend to improve funding opportunities? Thirdly, the knowledge needed for trade. Companies, especially SMEs, sometimes have insufficient expertise to explore markets or understand a licensing process. And, honestly, the government websites and manuals are not always clear about this. A recent example of this is the seemingly inscrutable regulation of exports to Russia, on which I have asked parliamentary questions. What will the Minister do in the near future to improve information on business opportunities for entrepreneurs, in particular SMEs? Fourth. Companies argued for a more focused national strategy. For example, many regions are currently on their own missions and are developing an internationalisation strategy. This also applies to all kinds of initiatives in different sectors. Does the Minister agree with the VVD that the government could bring more line and focus to that? Finally, fifthly, the importance of making better use of trade agreements. The cabinet has already launched a number of actions after I had asked the CDA colleague also to inform and allow entrepreneurs to benefit from trade agreements. For example, a Trade Barriers Notice has been set up and an app has also been developed. How will the Minister continue to work on this and monitor it? I hope, of course, that the Minister will address these issues briefly, but I hope, above all, that she will take them up in a proactive agenda for the coming period for entrepreneurs in the Netherlands who conquer the world with their ideas and innovations. I'm considering a motion on this. There are, of course, other issues that fit into such a proactive trade agenda, such as the importance of protecting free trade in the world at a time of emerging protectionism, dealing with a subject such as the Brexit and the entire trade defence instruments, but for the sake of time, Mr President, I do not now come up with a wish list on these points. We also need to talk about development cooperation, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	Before I give the floor to Mr Hijink, I would like to say that we are doing interrupts in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mrs Becker has a whole list of wishes for how we should serve business, but can she indicate whether she also expects companies to assume certain responsibilities in international trade when it comes to trade abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	Yes, I'd like to report that. As Mr Hijink knows, we have a lot of debates in the Chamber on corporate social responsibility. Many Dutch companies do this very well and take up that responsibility. The beauty is that they do so on their own, in consultation with each other. For example, we have the agreement approach for this. I think that is an important part, but we have talked about this many times and I do not want to forget that it should also be about the positive side of trade and how we can ensure that companies can make more money in the world. I'm gonna draw attention to that today, but sure, Mr. Hijink, it's and-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	There is, of course, a lot going well; we agree on that. Only, you cannot deny that in many countries too, people are being exploited by companies, that there are human rights violations. We still hear shocking stories about the clothing industry, for example. You cannot deny that the VVD, when we have heard such a story, never mentions that a company should also be socially responsible. The policy of this new minister must therefore not only be about promoting exports. As far as I am concerned, it must above all ensure that trade becomes fair and sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Yes, again, it is and-and, so the Minister should not only do this, but it is also an explicit task of this Minister to promote trade. When it came to the issue in Bangladesh, the VVD also said that it was important to have a textile agreement and to talk about how human rights are dealt with in the sector. But I would also like to draw attention today to all those companies and entrepreneurs who work hard every day to conquer the world with their idea. They deserve our support, and not just our criticism if things don't go well for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the subject of development cooperation. This is also an important subject for the VVD, because contrary to what some may sometimes think, we are not against aid. On the contrary, we are for help. We take responsibility beyond our borders. I call the good Dutch diplomacy of realpolitik. I also mention the deployment of our armed forces where necessary. I would also mention that through our good contacts, often with trade as the first foot in the door, we are contributing step by step to improvements in the world and to preventing and helping to resolve conflicts. Emergency aid must be provided in the event of acute emergency situations. In the case of violent and bloody conflicts, when people flee war and violence, as we have seen and still see in Syria, there must be good shelter, preferably in the region. By providing help, people in difficult situations regain the perspective of a safe and self-reliant life. By providing help, we prevent people from leaving their own country for a better life, resulting in unsustainable migration flows. So, no, the VVD isn't against help, but we still want to see if that help is effective and good. Let us not forget that, as the Netherlands, we are the seventh donor in the field of development cooperation, with 5.6 billion to OS in 2018. The VVD wants to ensure that this money is well spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Becker says she's not against help. In fact, she says she's up for it. In fact, I do not think that is very ambitious of the VVD, especially given that Mrs Becker just gave a rather comprehensive account of trade policy. I would think that the VVD sees opportunities to give extra form to this aid, that trade and that development from Dutch companies. How do you look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	I think that Mrs Diks will be served at her beck and call, because I am still going to discuss in detail how, according to the VVD, we can effectively focus the money for development cooperation and the aid we are using also on the areas where economic opportunities lie. In doing so, we can actually contribute to the perspective for people in their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	I am looking forward to that, because I myself will come up with a rather comprehensive proposal on this point. I was just shocked, because I got the feeling that you were going a bit in the charitas direction, and I certainly wouldn't expect that from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'm a little curious. Now that I hear Mrs Becker holding such a hosanna story about aid and trade, what does she think of the examples I have indicated? I refer to an inventory project of traditional Tibetan music in China or a priest-imam exchange project in Egypt. I also mention the grant of €6 million of Dutch tax money to a company like Apple. That is not an SME-worthy business, I think. So I'm curious how she feels about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	We know the examples of the PVV; the projects that are then cited and made a bit ridiculous. I once sat in a debate where the PVV saw the use of a weather app for agriculture in a developing country as useless, whereas, in order to contribute to a perspective for people there, it is extremely important that they can do agriculture in a good, productive way. In fact, it is obvious that the PVV is simply against development cooperation. There is always one point that is being pulled out and ridiculed, but I would like to ask the PVV: how should we, the Netherlands, take responsibility for the perspective for people in parts of the world where things are less good, also to ensure that we can contain those huge migratory flows that the PVV is so opposed to, and to ensure that we can actually tackle the root causes of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	These examples are not just examples. If you also take a look at the website www.openaid.nl, which the previous minister has often called for, you will see projects that have been published by the government. All the data can be found. It would be good if Mrs Becker would scroll through it for half an hour. Moreover, the Minister himself came up with the Buienradar app, following a question from us. I know that your colleague Yeşilgöz also reacted a bit prickly at the time, but the Minister himself was proud of that subject. We did not call that useless, but we wonder why this should be financed by Dutch taxpayers' money. Our farmers have been doing it for years without it. They used the Enkhuizer Almanak or they looked at cloud patterns. That is more what the PVV has tried to do: question the scale and the necessity of this type of project. Mrs. Becker can't make that clear to me, so maybe she can make one more attempt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	Perhaps I can reassure Mrs Van Weerdenburg that she finds us on her side when it comes to the view that we should look critically at whether money we spend in the context of development cooperation goes well and is spent effectively. We have to see if it does not end up in a bundling of all kinds of projects that are, in the end, just a drop on a glowing plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	I will also go into this in detail later in my speech. Mr. Chairman. I had come to the point that we should not forget that as the Netherlands with 5.6 billion to OS in 2018 we are the seventh donor in the field of development cooperation and that we want to ensure that this is well spent. It is and must be more than a collection of good intentions. It must actually enable people to improve their own lives and prosperity in their own country. I told you that before. If the perspective does not improve in poor countries, people will continue to lead a dependent existence. Then they will continue to venture the dangerous crossing for a better life in Europe. The coalition agreement therefore rightly agreed that the government should adjust the budget for OS in order to combat the root causes of poverty, migration, terror and climate change. The agreement focuses on aid that really works and looks at economic opportunities and focuses on good reception in the region. There is also rightly a focus on countries for which the Netherlands can have real added value, and which have a major impact on security and stability in the ring around Europe. Complementary expenditure should focus on the causes and consequences of migration, including reception in the region. The Minister began implementation by sending a first letter of amendment of 190 million for emergency aid and reception in the region to the Chamber. I would like to ask the Minister when she can send the specific proposed spending to the Chamber for each purpose and organisation. Is this still possible before 1 December, so that the Chamber can consider this? When will the Court receive a proposal for the use of the other means of government agreement? I will not pre-empt the actual implementation now, but I do already have a question on the issue of emergency aid and the extent to which the contribution of the Netherlands seems to be out of line with that of other countries. I am referring specifically to the mechanism within the UN for joint action in the event of humanitarian emergencies in the world: the CERF. The Netherlands gave this mechanism more than 71 million dollars on a total budget of 447 million dollars in 2017. This puts us in a second position as a small country worldwide, while countries such as China and Russia, but also our neighbour Belgium and Italy, for example, are not yet contributing a fraction of it. The result is that the pot is quickly empty, there are several acute situations with the cap going around and the Netherlands pays extra nicely again. My colleague, Mr Ten Broeke, has also drawn attention to this earlier with his predecessors. The VVD wants to ask this minister today to use her influence in the UN gremia to encourage other countries to also take their responsibility and to capitalise the UN emergency fund better, so that the Netherlands does not only take the lead in this and close the gaps that other countries drop. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Mr. Chairman. I have just said that I do not want to anticipate the practical implementation of the means of government agreement. After all, the Minister himself still has to come up with plans. But I would like to ask her how she will deal with a number of important benchmarks for the VVD. Is the Minister prepared to take a critical look at the definition of good policy in the proposed distribution of OS resources? For example, what is good care in the region? We think it would be wise to start by looking at what is already happening and what the effect of this is, in order to determine what intensification really contributes to good reception in the region. Does the Minister agree with the VVD? How is the Minister going to measure the impact of its policy in a broad sense? Does it, for example, come up with new indicators that give the Chamber more insight into the impact of OS policy? And is she willing to keep looking at a horizon of her policy? How do we ensure that once budgeted resources are not automatic for years? I'm not just asking. I also ask this because the General Court recently concluded that policy conclusions in the field of OS are regularly lacking. How is this minister going to improve that and make sure that we can make real choices, in what works but also in what doesn't? And how does the Minister ensure that OS resources not only have the desired effect but are also, where necessary, subject to conditions? For example, the VVD believes that money for third countries also includes an agreement on reception and return. We would like to see concrete plans and a responsibility for them. How's the Minister gonna do this? Then there is the question of country policy. The choice for the new focus countries is good. Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq, in particular the first two Republics, are very important in the context of reception in the region and the management of migratory flows. Our commitment is most effective there. The cabinet indicates that it is still possible to identify which African and other countries can be added as focus countries and with which countries the OS relationship can be terminated. How's the Minister gonna handle this? The VVD needs a tight analysis of the assistance already available in the focus countries and then plans how Dutch intensifications will really contribute to perspective for people there. Is the Minister prepared to do so and when can the Chamber look forward to further development of these focus countries? Mr. Chairman. Finally...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	Finish your sentence. You were in the process of rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'm going to one last new topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	I have a question about the expansion of those focus countries. Of course, it's very easy to add countries to a list on which you want to focus, but the longer such a list becomes, the less focus there is. I am very curious to see how the VVD and Mrs Becker themselves look at this list of countries. It seems to me that if you add countries, that automatically means that there is less budget available elsewhere. To which countries do you think less money should go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	I am not going to anticipate that at the moment. I have asked the Minister a question for a reason, and I want a serious answer from the Minister. How she's going to handle this, whatever analysis she's going to come up with to see what kind of countries the Netherlands is going to be active in. Are we effective there and how could you choose not to consider a number of countries as a focus country? Then I'm not gonna do the minister's job. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to ask the Minister to make that analysis, and once we have received it, I would like to have another debate with Mr Hijink on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	The problem is, of course, that the coalition agreement states that we must tackle the root causes of migration. Reception in the region, is literally in the coalition agreement, is one of the root causes of migration. I thought that was a really weird line. If that is the goal, less migration and therefore extra money goes to the Middle East, then that means that you have the real root causes of tax avoidance, inequality, climate change, of which we see most in African countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	I'm really gonna talk a little through this, because you just have to be short, like everyone else. No analyses, just a brief comment or a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	That's not so bad, is it? I haven't spoken for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Well, no, you're starting to spread out a little bit now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	One cannot say on the one hand: we are going to remove the root causes of migration by strengthening reception in the region and, on the other hand, we are also going to have an eye to tackle the real causes of inequality. This is particularly true in African countries. So my question remains: how are you going to prevent there from being any more resources for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	I just gave the answer to the focus countries. For the rest, we agreed in the government agreement that we want to address the root causes of migration, but also poverty, terror and climate change. I am going to ask the Minister about this in a moment, because I do believe that there is also a task for this Minister to work with her fellow Members on these root causes. That is not only the policy of the focus countries, it is also diplomacy. That's in a lot of areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	I had another question about the remark you made about the link between the reception organised in the region and the possible developing countries that could receive that money. To what extent do you think it is acceptable that this link should be made at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	I just indicated that I think that's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	Short answer. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	I asked to what extent you consider this acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	I think it is acceptable that, if we spend money on aid in a country and make agreements on it with that country, if there is also a return, when that country is not prepared, for example, to take back asylum seekers who have been tried, we say: that money is not a gift, and we can agree to that. I think that's very reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Finally. Development policy cannot be separated from other foreign policies. In order to effectively address the root causes of migration, poverty, terror and climate change, cooperation with, for example, the Secretary of State for Immigration, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy is crucial in relation to the VVD. How is the Minister going to shape this integrality with her fellow Members? How is she going to fulfil her role in the field of ODA resources and climate policy, together with her colleague Wiebes? How does this become visible in its policy plans, its impact measurements and its evaluations? That was my last question. We look forward to the Minister's reply and to fruitful cooperation, especially a proactive commitment by this minister to aid, but also to trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	There's one more priority of the VVD left. This is a joint amendment tabled by our predecessors in 2015. This is about combating, as it is called, wildlife crime, so poaching in African countries. It's a small amount, two million. We would very much like to continue this project. Is the VVD willing to take part in that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	We have indeed supported this in the past because we felt it was important to help set up the fight against wildlife crime in the countries there, with the aim that they could ultimately do so themselves in an effective way. When the funds were allocated, this is conditional on the Minister looking at how that has worked out and whether we can now leave this issue to the countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	And now for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	I do not want us to say again: let us only go there once again for two million, without knowing whether the previous aid has had any effect. I ask the Minister if she can respond to that. I will await Mr Hijink's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr Hijink, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	Okay, so here's the question to the Minister as to whether this project in her view has been useful and still makes sense. Then Mrs. Becker is willing to extend that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	I have just said that development cooperation is not a collection of individual projects and good intentions as far as the VVD is concerned. I am not going to say from one project: let us add only two million. That money has to come from somewhere. I'll wait for the Minister's answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u46	Thank you. I call Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. GroenLinks is pleased to note that there is more money for development cooperation in the budget. In the rather brief note of amendment, the Minister has released 44 million for next year and has already earmarked 190 million for reception in the region and emergency aid. However, the documents do not yet show sufficiently clearly where and how this money is going to be spent in practice. The colleague of the VVD mentioned this as well. When will the Minister come up with, as far as I am concerned, policy-coherent plans for this? Do we now have to read this note as a mere reversal of budget cuts, or are there actually other policy choices being made? For example, what is meant by focus countries in the coalition agreement? Which countries will this become and what does this mean? More importantly, on what basis are these choices made? In any case, does the Minister have any idea of how it intends to develop it and, above all, how it intends to involve the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? It is a good thing that the gaps in the previous government's budget for development cooperation are being repaired and that some extra money is being released. GroenLinks regrets that occasional rather than structural money has been chosen. Are these extra donations not more than a one-off correction on the previous handle with the cash slides? In the previous budget Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, a motion by GroenLinks Chamber member Grashoff was adopted in which the Chamber stated that the development cooperation budget should grow back to 0.7% of gross national income in the coming years. The budget for development cooperation for the coming period is 0.7% minus 1.4 billion. The first question, which is a bit of a faint question, is of course: is the amount of that amount a coincidence, in the sense that everything now seems to cost 1.4 billion? Why was the cabinet chosen to remove the 1.4 billion in development cooperation and instead give it to foreign investors? GroenLinks prefers that 1.4 billion to the poorest in the world rather than the most rich. The greening of the Sahara. One of the biggest problems in Africa, now and in the near future, is the progressive drought caused by climate change. The desert consumes a strip of about 50 kilometres of agricultural land each year. This results in food scarcity, economic decline, instability and therefore violence. The United Nations Environment Organisation states that half of African agricultural land can be considered lost by climate change in about ten years' time. Many young people are now leaving these areas because they no longer see the prospect of action or the prospect of a future. They are drifting, deserted house and fireplace and flowing to Europe, where they rightly or wrongly see the future. The African Union also sees this problem. Last year she started a project to build the Great Green Wall: a 15 kilometer wide and 8,000 kilometer long strip of trees, across the continent, from Senegal to Djibouti. GroenLinks wants the Netherlands to take the initiative to work with partner countries, partner organisations and local communities wherever possible for large-scale projects and cooperation, to reclaim land in the Sahel region in the Sahara, to combat desertification and to convert degraded agricultural land into fertile agricultural land. Just when Dutch organisations and the Dutch business community are involved in these projects, at least we are hitting two flies and perhaps eight flies with one stone, because of stronger rural economies, more stability, more food security and so on and so on. In any case, this removes some of the root causes of migration. As a result of this proposal, I have a few questions. Is the Minister prepared to understand this with her colleagues in the Committee on Agriculture, Economic Affairs and Climate Change? Is the Minister prepared to work with partner countries and partner organisations for large-scale greening projects in the Sahara? And as an adoptive mother of development goal 5, SDG 5, gender equality, I ask the Minister whether she is also prepared to make a firm effort to ensure that those recovered agricultural land are mainly granted to women, in order to improve the economic perspective of them and their families, for example by stepping up the Green Climate Fund. National and international climate policy can be linked to foreign trade policy in a great way in this proposal and offer such great economic opportunities for the Dutch business community, which has a huge amount of knowledge and expertise in this area. At COP23 in Bonn, President Macron proposed integrating climate change into European trade policy. In fact, he indicated that Europe should not actually negotiate free trade with countries that are less ambitious than the European Union, because this would bring down our common European objective. How does the Minister view this statement by President Macron in relation to the Dutch commercial policy? Speaking of climate change, in the Paris climate agreement, rich countries have committed to making USD 100 billion a year available from 2020 to help developing countries prevent or mitigate climate change. The agreement was that these would be additional resources and non-existent OS money. In the answer to the written questions, however, we read that the Netherlands wants to finance this contribution from ODA, i.e. existing OS money. Does the cabinet now break with this earlier promise and, if so, why? Mr. Chairman. The OS paragraph of the coalition agreement is based on repressive asylum policy, although there are now additional resources for reception in the camps in the region. At the same time, it seems as if the cabinet does not realize that it is combating consequences but is maintaining causes. It is precisely through support for reception in the region and funding new migration deals with development cooperation money that OS money is being removed from the fight against root causes: climate change resulting in poverty, violence and insecurity. Thus, the migration policy of this cabinet becomes a snake that bites its own tail, a vicious circle. I have just gone into it in detail. The cabinet wants to spend OS money on creating new safe third countries. It is not clear which countries should be affected. As far as I know, there are no stable countries in North Africa with a working asylum system and guarantees that returned migrants will be treated properly. In fact, last week it came out that there was another slave trade in Libya. Slaves, Minister! It's goddamn complaining!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr Voordewind, good morning. For you it was also a long night, but you are standing here fresh and fruity again in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u49	Not cut, but shaved, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr President, I have so far listened to Mrs Diks' story with great pleasure. I have to say, however, that it is a little economical when it comes to the reversal of development cooperation policy. I hear one sentence about more money coming in. That's what we've both been fighting for in the past few years with other parties. But I would like to ask Mrs Diks the following question. The coalition agreement also clearly mentions the four priorities of recent years in the fight against poverty. This is also the subject of additional funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yes. And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u51	Did Mrs. Diks notice that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u52	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u53	I think I have started my contribution by saying that I am very positive about the fact that there is more money in the budget. But of course what you would like, or what GroenLinks would want, is that that would be structural money. We see that this money is only made available for four years. In that sense, I still see it as a one-time thing. Let me put it a little roughly: I see this as a bit of a stopgap for the fact that in recent years such big surges in the OS money have been done. In that sense, you are a little too early, because I will be making a contribution in a moment to explain why I really object to the fact that all these asylum costs are also paid out of the OS money. I'm just not looking to the right too much, at the president's gestures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u54	No, but I'll go left. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u55	We are still talking about the distribution of asylum funds. I note with Mrs Diks that 1.8 billion will be added in the coming years. That's hard money. And what happens after that? In four years' time, Mrs. Diks may be back on her feet when there will be another election. Then I wish her good luck again in continuing this policy from growth to 0.7%. The intensification, i.e. in the 450 million a year, is also a whole bunch of money to fight the root causes of poverty. My question was whether Mrs Diks also recognizes that, in addition to receiving care in the region, which Mrs Diks is also in favour of, there is also work being done to combat the root causes of poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yes, we do. But I think I have given a very detailed explanation of how I think it could be done much better. If you shape the reception in the region as the cabinet now envisages, we will, I shall say, maintain the system in that regard. As a result, there is no fundamental and fundamental change that simply prevents people from making the decision to go this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u58	OS is increasingly threatening to become an outsource office of our asylum policy. As far as we are concerned, there must be a ceiling on what may be excluded from ODA for the financing of first-year care. I'm considering a motion on this point. For next year, the ODA cash will be looted again for over half a billion to finance asylum shelter in its own country. What does the Minister think of this grip on her budget to achieve other cabinet objectives in the area of asylum and migration? And then there's something else. What if, ultimately, deals are not closed because there are no safe countries in North Africa? Is there the risk of underutilisation, and ultimately the flow of money from the OS budget? How's the secretary guarding that? The European Union intends to establish a multilateral investment court, the MIC, to act as a dispute resolution body for future trade agreements. Research shows that the European Commission has miraculously dealt with the results of a public consultation on this new court, and the public and social support of NGOs for this. GroenLinks does not see anything at all in these arbitration courts, especially since large multinationals can complain there, while this court is not yet open to citizens with complaints. My questions to the Minister are: is the Minister prepared to plead with the European Union for a wider opening of such courts, including for citizens? The national court is passed in this kind of court. Is the Minister prepared, if an MIC is inescapable, to at least argue in favour of going through the whole of the national court before access to an arbitration court? What action will the Minister take at the European Commission in connection with the investigation? And what response does it make to the European Commission's strange actions? Mr. Chairman. Former Minister Ploumen has worked hard to conclude agreements within the framework of international corporate social responsibility with the branches themselves. Covenants are fine, provided we get results. In two sectors we have doubts about this: food and clothing. As far as food is concerned, the six NGOs concerned have recently left the negotiations, because only interbranch organisations would be bound by the covenant and individual supermarkets would not. This is not the kind of covenant that GroenLinks has in mind. Is the Minister going to take any further action on this matter in order to reach a proper food agreement? In addition to SDG 5, I also adopted SDG 12: fair trade and production. As Arjen Lubach also noticed recently, the conditions under which our clothing is made are still opaque. For GroenLinks, fashion chains should provide insight into where their clothing comes from and should also be responsible for checking whether production actually takes place under the right working conditions. Currently, the only punishment for chains if they are not sufficiently committed to this is to get them kicked out of the covenant. That's GroenLinks way too kind. The previous minister has made excellent roots but there are still no sticks as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Is the Minister prepared to call for binding rules on socially responsible clothing production at European level? Is the Minister prepared to plead with her fellow Members to include an SDG and CSR test in the explanatory statement in the legislative proposals, in order to monitor the progress of the implementation of the SDGs and CSR policies in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. In the Asscher/Ploumen motion adopted, the Chamber instructed the government to continue the SheDecides initiative. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there could even be a shovel on top of that. Now that the United States has withdrawn from the fight for better reproductive rights for women in developing countries, much money is needed to fill that gap. How exactly will the Minister SheDecides continue and will part of the repaired OS budget benefit from this? Besides SheDecides, it is also important to transfer and promote general basic health care and knowledge about hygiene, because HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and other diseases are still far too common and have disastrous influence on the further development of people. What does the Minister intend to do with basic health care and hygiene? And is she prepared to contact her colleague from VWS about this in order to see what they can do in cooperation on this issue? It would be a good step if the Minister were to do so, because it would also be able to pay much more attention to the policy coherence, which is still very clearly lacking in the field of development cooperation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mrs Diks. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr President, thank you. I had eight minutes of speaking time, but here's six minutes on the screen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yeah, six minutes for the first term and two for the second. But if you want eight minutes, that's fine. Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yeah, I was supposed to be eight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u63	Fine, let's do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr. Chairman. I will start with the OS part and the second part, on trade, will be taken over by my colleague Amhaouch. Mr. Chairman. Unlike previous years, this cabinet is committed to an increase in development cooperation funds. We're seeing a trend break, and as a CDA, we're happy about that. However, we should not deal lightly with these funds, but consider, in view of effective policies, our choices how to use these additional resources. Addressing the root causes of migration, emergency aid to forgotten crises and providing an economic perspective are our priorities. The use of perspective is in the interests of Europe as well as in the interests of people in development areas. The Dutch OS policy will have to focus. Africa's demographic growth is enormous over the coming decades. People will continue to come, especially economic migrants. And economic migrants need to be better informed about the dangers of travelling across the Mediterranean. And they need a real picture of the future that awaits them in Europe. Control at the European external borders will also improve in the coming years. But stopping isn't enough. We also focus on the causes of departure. Many leave because of the lack of perspective on work. And with the current population growth in Africa, they will need many more jobs. So we need to focus there on providing perspective for young Africans. Humanitarian refugees deserve our help. And of course shelter close to home is the best. First we look at the reception in the region. In addition, we also need to seek more consultation with neighbouring countries of Europe, and with the EU we need to conduct joint policies, with which we will work intensively and strategically with these countries. The CDA would like to receive a strategic agenda from the Minister as soon as possible, setting out how we will shape these partnerships. According to the CDA, the following policy choices should be made in 2018. The coalition agreement mentions three focus countries: Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq, as well as Africa. We must urgently examine where Dutch money is most effective in these areas. The core of the Dutch effort is to offer perspective to populations. We are thinking, for example, of promoting economic activity through loans and micro-credits. In addition, we consider support in refugee camps to be important in order to offer children in particular a future. And we must not forget to pay attention to the capacity of the local population in the receiving region. For example, in Lebanon, the large number of refugees makes it difficult for the Lebanese population to find employment, social services and health care. Supporting and maintaining facilities for the local population is an important part of reception in the region. In concrete terms, the CDA proposes to clarify the criteria we apply to focus countries. Which countries bear the greatest burden? Where does Dutch support have the most effect? What relationship is there with countries already? What support is most needed and effective according to the local population and the refugees themselves? Are we taking their perspective with us? The role of civil society organisations in cooperation with companies must of course also be taken into account. How does the Minister intend to do this? In 2018, the Minister will use additional funds for reception in the region and addressing the causes of migration. I would like to know from the Minister whether this is also intended to increase the ARC fund. ARC stands for Addressing Root Causes. This is because it addresses the root causes of migration. I would not like to argue in favour of new funds, but I would argue in favour of extending the ARC fund. I'd like a comment on that, too. In addition to the focus countries, the CDA wants to focus on some specific issues. I want to strengthen the position of women in general. Women often pay the highest bill due to trauma complications, sexual violence or simply the disappearance of family. At the same time, however, it is also women who make an important contribution to the economy and development. Last week, the committee and the minister had a discussion with Belinda Gates about the GFF, a fund with a multiplier effect specifically dedicated to women and children. My question to the Minister would be: could this fund be an effective means of promoting the protection and position of women as the Netherlands? I would also like to ask the Minister, in a letter, to indicate how to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution and specifically to see how women and children can be better protected on the run. The Netherlands does a lot in the field of gender, but we have recently been fooled. A consistent, overarching gender policy is still lacking. We therefore ask the Minister to look closely at this and integrate gender into policy issues such as security, trade and CSR and also to look at a clear application of monitoring, analysis and evaluation. Finally, the CDA would like to draw attention to some forgotten crises, including the war and cholera epidemic in Yemen and the outbreak of the plague in Madagascar. The increase in emergency aid proposed by the Minister can also be used to address these specific silent disasters. I would like a reply from the Minister on the basis of which criteria the extra money for emergency aid is being spent. Are these silent crises among them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u65	I have one more question about the last block. Mrs Kuik is urging women to do a wonderful job here, and she says that help should offer perspective to the local population. However, I find this difficult to reconcile with the fact that the CDA voted against the motion to stop funding for the Sharia court in Somalia. What perspective does this funding offer Somali women, so that they can be stoned in courts where Sharia is in force in official courts instead of by Al-Shabaab courts? I'd like to hear that from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u66	I think it is quite clear that we are all committed here in the Chamber to women's rights. I think it is important that we also put in place an integrated policy and see what is most effective. We will also draw attention to this in the direction of the Minister. You give a specific example. We can take out specific examples, but we can also see what is most effective in helping women. Then we see, for example, that the SheDecides policy that has been deployed is really effective in all kinds of areas and monitors women's rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u67	Is Mrs Kuik aware that women's rights in our definition, namely that of universal human rights, are quite different from the rights of women in Islam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u68	I think we should not only look at these countries from here, but also look at the cultures that are there and how we deal with them in order to improve women's rights. Just imposing our vision, that's not gonna work. You also need to see what the perspective is there and how we can improve it as effectively as possible. Mr. Chairman. My final point. I would like to dwell on the use of diplomacy. Here is an opportunity for the Netherlands as a member of the UN Security Council in 2018. In the coalition agreement, 10 million is earmarked to strengthen the postal network. Our preference is to strengthen an economic network. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how the postal network will be expanded. I would now like to give the floor to my colleague, who is talking about trade. I'm sorry, but I'm not sure I'm gonna be able to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u69	I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I guess I'll just drop in with the door in the house. The CDA believes that trade should be used as a development tool in Africa and less developed countries. Choices must be made about which countries have the most potential and the most needs. It is about opening up the market, making the market accessible to the region and making regional products contribute to the regional economy. I am thinking here of ECOWAS cooperation in West Africa, where 15 countries work together to develop an economic area. We ask the government to provide an overview of the countries with which trade should be intensified and where trade can be encouraged. An important question here is what criteria we apply. We would like to receive an overview from the Minister as soon as possible, indicating which countries can best be encouraged through trade in their economic development. We would also like to have an overview of the criteria used by the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a lot of knowledge in the agrofood sector and in water. This is also one of our major top sectors. The business community, also in cooperation with civil society organisations and knowledge institutes such as the University of Wageningen, is working on innovative technologies in emerging countries. Think, for example, of the use of geodata, but also of the innovations in the enormous seed processing that we have in the Netherlands and with which we are actually trying to feed the whole world. These are very important issues for achieving the SDGs, e.g. SDG 8, which I have adopted myself, and which is about sustainable inclusive economic developments, and they play a role in addressing the root cause of migration, but also in addressing climate change and its negative impacts. GroenLinks' colleague spoke about this a moment ago. I think I see a policy change at GroenLinks: also support large-scale projects rather than just the small ones. The CDA will specifically advocate giving extra attention and prioritising to water and food safety in international trade. The basic idea here is: making countries more self-sufficient and success for Dutch companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yes, this is asking for a response from Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u72	Exactly, you don't blame me for taking this up, because I honestly thought it was a little faint, Mr. Amhaouch, that you put it that way. In my view, I have just spoken very emphatically about "excited hands' and I have indicated to you how GroenLinks envisages how this root cause of migration can be dealt with, how we can do it on a large scale, how we can perhaps all make money from it and how we can achieve that improvement. Then I think it's a little faint that you're reacting this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u73	You have made your point, but Mr. Amhaouch, you are also meant to interrupt Mrs. Diks and not provoke Mrs. Diks from the cathedral.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u74	May I respond to this, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u75	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u76	I do believe that this hand-out is a very good one, because in the field of agro and water, we can also help Africa through larger projects. So I didn't mean to be silly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u77	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u78	I'll continue with my introduction. Dutch trade and investment in the Dutch food security policy will also contribute to strengthening local food systems and local value chains. In this way, the Netherlands can create very concrete added value. Especially through export of knowledge and production systems, the Netherlands can make a very distinctive contribution. On the one hand, it is about supporting small farmers in low-income countries, but we must also take the next step by facilitating medium-sized enterprises in low- and middle-income countries in setting up corporations. This contributes to promoting the innovative strength of the local and regional agricultural and food processing industries. Ensuring food security and creating jobs will only succeed if we continue to support both small farmers and medium-sized farmers. I would like a response from the Minister to the question of how to strengthen the value chain. In our work visit to Lebanon we have seen that with Dutch support start-ups with many young enthusiastic entrepreneurs can be successful, with relatively little financial resources but with great added value through the knowledge sharing with, for example, Wageningen. We would like to see such initiatives developed in several places. Now I would like to discuss the trade agreements that are now on the table. How is the Minister going to successfully conclude negotiations on trade agreements with Australia, New Zealand, Japan and Indonesia? Exporting The Netherlands is anxious to remove existing barriers and embraces a level playing field. What lessons learned from the evaluations of existing trade agreements will the Minister implement as soon as possible, so that we in the Netherlands can obtain more from existing trade agreements and also from these new trade agreements? I have already made a point of this in relation to the analysis of the trade agreement with South Korea. Please give a broad presentation by the Minister on how we can improve the implementation and results of trade agreements. Finally, can the Minister also reflect on... and make a look at... how Invest-NL fits into both the aforementioned blocks in relation to the international trade context? It is about Invest-NL compared to DGGF, DTIF and the FMO. Finally, the CDA is committed to a fair economy, which focuses on the long term, quality and a fair price. This is a choice for corporate social responsibility, sustainability and innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u80	Thank you, Mr President. We have a new minister. In an earlier debate, I said to this new minister that expectations are high, given her record as a human rights advocate. We are very curious whether she will succeed in putting human rights above trade interests in the near future, and whether she will be given room, but also, above all, whether she will take that space, to combat inequality in the world and to make trade fairer. For the SP, it is crucial that we can make it clear to people that the money spent on development cooperation is money well spent. After all, it's a big amount of money and it's all tax money, so people can expect the money to end up in the right place. But is that money gonna end up okay? My predecessor Eric Smaling stressed here last year that this is not always the case. He mentioned an example in Burundi, where the aid money ended after Dutch money had been used to teach a violent police force how to shoot better. We also see that the government is using money for development cooperation for the reception of refugees in their own country, or that money intended for the development of local economies is channelled through tax havens. We do not think that is the intention. The government says, in the coalition agreement, that we were earlier talking about putting extra money into shelter in the region, because it would address the root causes of migration. That's a very strange line of reasoning. Reception in the region is a prelude to the bloody struggle that has been raging in Syria and Iraq for years; of course the shelter itself is not the root cause. Yes, there are places where the shelter isn't properly arranged. We were in Lebanon with the committee last month, where we visited the camps. There was a family with six children who had one mattress to share. If they sleep there in a drafty tent while winter is coming, I understand that the shelter is not well arranged there. Then I understand that some of those people are considering moving to Europe. But that's different from the root cause, because the real root cause is war, that's terror, that's conflict, and that's the lack of perspective for people. If we want to eliminate these root causes, we need a much broader view than just providing aid for care in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u81	Does the SP also see that it is important to offer good help in receiving care in the region and to use money to do so? 'Cause, of course, we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u82	Of course, and that makes perfect sense. I just said that I saw it myself, so that requires more money, speaks for itself. This does not, of course, have to come from the Netherlands alone; other countries can also contribute to this. But it goes without saying that this is very important. But we're going to have to watch out for what it's gonna cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u83	That is why the coalition agreement states that we are looking at this shelter in the region and that we are not abandoning people in a situation that is undesirable or inhuman, you could almost say, but that we are also focusing on those root causes. That's what it says. I think you should agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u84	Yeah, but I'm falling over that one sentence saying that if we solve all of this, with shelter in the region, we'll have the root cause of migration. I think that's the wrong way to go. Mrs Diks also made that point, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u85	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. If you want to tackle the root causes, you have to give young people a better future in the country where they live. This requires fair trade so that young African farmers can think of growth and more marketing. This is quite different from what happened in 2016, when Dutch chicken legs were dumped on the local markets in Ghana, which completely priced local farmers out of their own market. If trade policy is not right, then development cooperation does not make much sense. If you want to tackle the root causes, you have to prevent conflicts and end wars. Then we thank for new war missions and invest in diplomacy, in cooperation and in preventing conflicts, rather than contributing to them. If you want to tackle the root causes, you will ensure that countries in Africa do not miss many billions of tax revenues due to tax avoidance. How does the Minister respond to the news from Nigeria, where the development bank FMO, which is largely owned by the government, supported the construction of a private power plant for $40 million? That power station, which was to become owned by consultants and bankers, then parked its income in a tax haven. You can't explain that, can you? That's embarrassing. How can Dutch money be spent in such a wrong way? I'd love to hear the Minister's views on that. Mr. Chairman. Addressing the root causes is climate change, which makes agriculture impossible in more and more areas of Africa. Then you think of tackling poor education, high youth unemployment and corrupt governments that primarily enrich themselves and do not care very much about their own population. If we are to tackle these root causes of migration together, this cabinet has an ally in the SP, but there is still a lot to be done. In Africa, many countries will lose part of their agricultural production this century due to climate change. Mrs. Diks was talking about it, too. That is hard on a continent where the population is going to double over the next 30 years. If we want to tackle the root causes of migration, there is a big job to be done. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to review existing OS relations to focus more on care in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u87	I heard the block was going to change, which is why I have a question. We have just talked to GroenLinks about climate change in Africa. GroenLinks mentioned the green zone. The Netherlands can also make a distinction by sending good glorified seeds there, so that there is growth again in agriculture. Does the SP support the efforts of the Netherlands to make a difference on agro, food and water, in order to create employment? Does the SP support these projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u88	I think that's very wise. I always try to make a distinction: on which side is most profited? I think it is very good, especially if the University of Wageningen intervenes, to see how production can become more effective and how we can ensure that poor agricultural land is better used. But that is a different matter than putting too much effort on the export of Dutch farms if they are only aimed at dumping. Dumping is the wrong word, because that is not the main objective, but sometimes a consequence. The aim must never be to bring as many agricultural products as possible from the Netherlands to the African market. The goal must always be: how can we support local farmers, possibly with Dutch resources, to become self-sufficient and increase their own production? I'd be very sorry for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u89	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u90	Do you also object if the Netherlands can achieve a win-win situation and not only export food in the direction of knowledge and production systems or innovative ideas? Then farmers will be able to develop and Dutch trade will be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u91	Fine, but that last one shouldn't be the first target.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u92	Good morning to you too, Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u93	Good morning to you too, Madam President. It was about the Hills Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u94	One more time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u95	One more time. It is an important point, which will also be included in my contribution, namely cooperation between OS and Agriculture. We're the world's second exporter. Then we can have a whole discussion about the export of products, but we do so in the Committee on Agriculture. I get the point, but we're in a different place. But let's talk about cooperation in the field of knowledge. Do you also think that it will help us, but that Africa will certainly benefit if OS and Agriculture cooperate better and export that knowledge?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u96	I think that's the same question I just answered. Exporting knowledge is fine and strengthening the local economy there is absolutely fine, but what we read between the rules often in current policies is that the primary goal is that our business should benefit from it. If that is an additional effect in the long term, I am fine with it, especially if we become equal trading partners in the long term, but the main objective of OS money seems to me to strengthen the local economies of this case in Africa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u97	But I was just trying to go a little further in my question. It's fine that this is stimulated from OS. I am in favour of this, but I note that we have an agricultural sector in which this is happening very slowly. Our companies are doing something and the Ministry is doing something, but I think there is more synergy to be achieved if OS and Agriculture are to cooperate more on what you are referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u98	It could be. That's what we have to look at. But I am also watching for the situation that we have seen a great deal in which western big companies market seeds and patented products, which farmers can then produce for one year, and then they have to come back to that Western company again. That's very good for that company, but it didn't help the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u100	I was talking about the OS relations. The cabinet wants to review them, but what exactly does this mean? Which African countries are going off the list? What is the Minister doing to increase the international contribution to reception in the region? The deficits are large, as I have just mentioned them. It must not mean abandoning the poorest elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u101	A brief question, because Mr Hijink has just asked me to tell you which countries are off the list. Does he have an idea of his own?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u102	No. As far as the choice made by the cabinet is concerned, I do not know at all whether that is such a good idea. That will really depend on the outcome. Several people rightly point out that extending that list will mean abandoning countries in Africa to subsidise reception in the region and partly our own migration policy. So I am not at all convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u103	It is good to hear that the SP agrees with the position of the VVD that we should first give the Minister himself the opportunity to do so before we start calling countries here as Chamber itself. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u104	But that's a little crazy. I do not propose adding a number of countries to that list. That's what the Cabinet and yourself are proposing. So then you shouldn't turn the blame around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u106	If you want fewer people to get on the boat to Europe, you have to give young people reasons to build a future in their own country. That means investing in education, health care and more jobs with a wage that you can live on. Then you shouldn't put food on the market at dumped prices because local markets and economies will become frustrated. What can work is better cooperation between companies in the Netherlands and small entrepreneurs in Africa. Both can benefit from each other's knowledge and markets, but on the basis of equivalence and mutual benefit. The SP proposed to invest in this last year. We will make another proposal for this this year and I would like to hear from the Minister whether she is prepared to support this direction. Mr. Chairman. Fair and sustainable trade is based on companies and governments that treat each other properly, so that as a Turkish textile worker you don't have to sew distress calls in clothing because the ZARA hasn't wanted to pay you out for three months. Many producers, including in the clothing industry, still cannot indicate where their clothes are made and whether they have been worked on by children's hands. I wonder how that's possible. Would we accept that the baker on the corner can't explain to us what's in the bread? I don't think so. And where does that strange idea come from that companies don't have to take responsibility for the stuff they put on the market? I don't think that can be explained anymore at this time. Has anyone perhaps forced these producers to find cheap subcontractors to exploit people and employ people they don't know at all? No, of course not, those are business choices and you can make them different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u107	Mr Hijink gives an example of unfair trade, but I think he gives the wrong example of textiles. As a Chamber, we have already made a number of strong statements about what is happening in the textile factories in Asia, but we have in the previous cabinet period through improv agreements and with the ESC and our business...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u108	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u109	Is Mr Hijink convinced that the import agreements that we want to continue to use will solve these problems, and that it is not just a black picture of the textile industry as if it were not taking its own responsibility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u110	No. It has been discussed for a long time and evaluations have been announced for many years and now in the government agreement, but what is lacking are tough measures to keep company agreements. There is a lot of talk, but very little is being done. The example I mentioned of Turkish workers who, by the way, are sewing in clothing notes saying that they have not been paid out for three months seems to me to be a good example which shows that it is far from in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u111	That it is far from in order, I believe, but my question is whether Mr Hijink is convinced that the textile industry does not itself assume its own responsibilities and improves? Or are you saying they're not doing anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u112	Not enough. They're not doing nothing. The point I'm making is this. How can it be that a clothing producer still employs subcontractors who cannot indicate how clothes are made? That's a business decision, isn't it? You can also choose to do it yourself or to sit in a country where it is for each other or, if you are going to produce in a developing country, to choose a company that can make the products in a decent way? I just don't understand why we take it as some kind of natural phenomenon that people elsewhere in the world work in factories that are exploited and abused. I do not understand why people in this room think: we are going to deal with a covenant. Come on, that's just a basic date, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u113	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u114	So it's not gonna happen on its own, Mr. Chairman. That is why we are in favour of the binding UN Convention on Human Rights and Businesses. This convention, which is being discussed within the UN, should impose enforceable requirements on companies in order to prevent human rights violations. Is the Minister prepared to make every effort to make these negotiations a success? We don't have to wait. Our country can make its own law if we want it, as France and the United Kingdom have done. They hold companies responsible for what happens to their suppliers. It is only when we do that that consumers can really trust that the clothes they buy in the shop are actually clean. Only then will we take a first step towards making our trade fairer and more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Before I give the floor to Mr Bouali, I should like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u116	I'm reopening the meeting. I give the floor to Mr Bouali on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A good career in the UN, six languages fluently speaking, working around the world, conducted negotiations with the most diverse people and world leaders under the speed dial on your mobile phone: our new Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation has it all. The Netherlands can be proud that such a person wishes to fulfil this office for us. With this, we can come forward. So I look forward to working well with this Minister. Mr. Chairman. The world has never been as prosperous and developed as it is today. Extreme poverty and hunger are being reduced and more and more children are going to school. At the same time, we also see many challenges. More than 65 million people are fleeing worldwide. Earth's warming up. There are many crises that require our attention. Development cooperation is therefore urgently needed. It is therefore very good that this cabinet is reversing the trend of austerity and is investing in development cooperation for the first time since 2010. Mr. Chairman. D66 stands for an open world, in which freedom and trade go hand in hand. An open and transparent trade policy is more necessary than ever. It is also in our own interest: a third of our gross national product comes from exports. This also creates 2.2 million jobs in the Netherlands. Thanks to trade, we pay large parts of our healthcare, education and social services. In the coming decades, 90% of economic growth will take place outside Europe. In order to benefit from this growth and to guarantee our high standards of quality for animal welfare, working conditions and the climate, it is good that we conclude free trade agreements. After all, the Netherlands is now the seventeenth economy in the world. I'd like to add a tooth to that, as far as my party's concerned. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to development cooperation. Although the Netherlands always fights above its weight, unfortunately we cannot help the whole world. My group therefore welcomes the choices made in the coalition agreement. I'm also curious how the extra money is going to be spent. I look forward to the Minister's policy statement, which includes the priorities and further financial implications. Some of my fellow Members have already done so. D66 would like to give this new minister some thought and direction. First of all, the geographical focus on the ring around Europe. My group considers it very positive that Jordan, Lebanon and Iraq are becoming new focus countries. I should like to hear from this Minister when there will be a further substantive explanation of what this is going to mean. In other countries in the Middle East and North Africa there are many challenges. Take Morocco, for example. Last summer there were many demonstrations in northern Morocco. Many are more than tired of the enormous disadvantages. On my initiative, almost the entire Chamber voted in favour of a motion to develop Morocco's aid and trade agenda. I would like to hear from this Minister how this is going and how we can help Morocco even further. By the way, I wouldn't mind if you honor the country where I was born with a quick visit. Your commitment will certainly have an effect there. Mr. Chairman. D66 would like Dutch aid and trade to focus on the region of the Middle East and North Africa. We can stimulate activity and entrepreneurship by supporting, for example, start-ups in that region. My colleague Amhaouch has just mentioned it. This leads to local jobs, which can help us reduce high levels of youth unemployment. We can take the knowledge and skills from, for example, our start-up DELTA there, assist them to set up those start-ups, and we can also provide the possible financial support for that. Could the Minister respond to this and look at it? Another explicit priority of D66 in development cooperation is the fight for equal rights. That is why the Human Rights Fund is being raised. D66 has been committed to this for years, and in particular to women's rights. The Netherlands has an excellent international reputation for promoting women's rights and SRGR. We'd like to continue with that. The former Minister for BuHa-OS did a good job there. I trust this minister will continue to do so. From the room, I'd like to give her an extra push in the back. After all, women themselves have the right to choose whether they want to have children and when they want to have them. Everyone has the right to love whoever they want. So I would very much welcome the extra commitment of this minister in the field of sexual and reproductive health rights. After all, it's just a basic right. I'd like to hear what this minister thinks about that. Worldwide, the UN population fund, better known as UNFPA, has a very important role to play in the issue of SRGR, but the contribution of the Netherlands to that UN organisation has declined considerably in recent years. Does the Minister see an opportunity to reverse this trend? That would be worth a sweet thing to me. Mr. Chairman. Another point in the coalition agreement that my group is very pleased with is education for refugees. Everyone has the right to education, regardless of origin or status. Good education brings out the best in people, prevents and reduces backlogs and helps talents develop optimally. D66 is curious how the Minister will take up the specific mission of education for refugees from the government agreement and whether she is prepared to regularly inform the Chamber about this. Then I'll come to business. For D66, trade is an essential part of our outward view. Think and trade internationally is one of our pointers. Trade has traditionally been of vital importance to the Netherlands. It still increases our freedom and prosperity. The question then is how to trade. D66 uses the following frameworks. Trade from an open attitude, from Europe to the rest of the world, rather than the opportunistic protectionism that we unfortunately see more and more often. Trade that benefits our economy, but also serves sustainability and social equality. Trade that offers plenty of scope for entrepreneurship and innovation where Europe sets the standard in terms of privacy and data protection. Finally, trade in which D66 would also like special attention to be paid to the ring around Europe, to the MENA region, as I mentioned earlier, but also to Eastern Europe and the neighbouring countries of the Kingdom, a country like Colombia, for example. In short, within these frameworks, D66 aims to promote the international trade environment and not limit it. We know that growth in the coming years comes mainly from outside Europe. We will therefore have to ensure that our companies are able to respond to this. What's that gonna take? First of all, business shows that we can organize our economic missions, our trade trips, even more strategic and tighter. Is the Minister aware of these signals from the business community? And is the Minister prepared to improve the current system? Secondly, the commercial instruments themselves. Businesses are getting beaten up with all kinds of vouchers, websites and a complex range of services. Does the Minister recognise this policy and what can she do to make it all a little tighter and more effective? I'd like a response. Thirdly, the importance of sustainability and climate in our trade policy. I am proud that the government agreement states that there will be a national climate fund. How does the Minister intend to shape this climate fund, also in relation to its trade agenda? When can the Chamber expect the interpretation of this? In addition, not so long ago, my group tabled a motion calling on the Cabinet to make every effort to strengthen trade in good products and technologies. I would like to hear that this Minister is also working on the implementation of this motion. In this context, I am very sorry that the negotiations on the Environmental Goods Agreement have stalled. What can we, the Netherlands, do to revive these negotiations? Will the Minister make a commitment to this? I'm gonna finish up. As far as D66 is concerned, the usefulness and need of development cooperation is crystal clear. We can fight poverty, eradicate hunger, tackle causes of migration and promote human rights. My group is therefore very pleased that after years of austerity there are now substantial investments from this cabinet. You can rightly call that a trend break. Also on the trading book D66 has that open, progressive attitude. Open borders and trade are in our favor as long as we set the right conditions. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to constructive cooperation with this new minister, who, thanks to her international network and experience, can do a great deal for our country as a trading country and for a country that is aware of the challenges of development in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mrs Ouwehand, we agreed that the interruptions should be in two and short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u119	I want to get on the CD... The D66 Group is a freudian slip, excuse me! I would like to point out that, although this cabinet has ambitious climate targets, it also has to be filled in, so trust that it will be all right, while the D66 Group is also in favour of continuing the free trade negotiations. Could there be a risk in that if we do not yet know how we are going to achieve the climate targets, but we are becoming more committed to free trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u120	I don't think this was your first freudian slip in my direction! As I've said to you before, it's real and-and for us. I know that you prefer not to do anything about trade and that you leave all those jobs behind. We're not going for that. We simply want the Netherlands to have these jobs, to encourage employment. But we also, together with you, want to find a good balance and commitment to climate, environment, sustainability and social guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u122	Sure, but then I repeat the question I did not get an answer to. Does D66 also see that it may be a risk that, if you have to make your climate targets concrete and you do not yet know exactly how they can be achieved, if you continue to conclude free trade agreements, thereby achieving the climate targets, that is also not being warned about? Let me say it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u123	I am not going to repeat myself, but I am going to give you information, and you know that references to climate objectives have now been included in all trade agreements. Surely that must be a gain for you, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin today by expressing my horror at the humanitarian tragedy that is currently taking place in Yemen. 27 million people, including many women and children, urgently need help. One of them is Amal Bascha. She was married out at the age of eight, divorced at the age of 12 and is now an important defender of women's rights, human rights and democracy. Unfortunately, this will not be without consequences. Amal and her children are threatened, attacked and even kidnapped. The brakes on her car were disabled and there are regularly raids in her office. I do not have to tell the Minister or the President of the Council that this means hope in Arabic. Amal honors her name, because she doesn't give up. Partly thanks to the evidence she collected of human rights violations, it came to a Dutch resolution in the UN Security Council on independent investigation in Yemen. That's why heroes like Amal deserve our support. As co-adoption mother of sustainable development goal No. 5, women and men equal, SDG 5 for intimi, no one will be surprised that I am here in favour of investing in the development of and opportunities for girls and women, not because it has to, but because it works. In many countries, women do not have access to contraception, sexual education or safe abortion. Fortunately, more and more people worldwide stand up for women's rights. Just look at #MeToo and look at the huge support for She Decides, also here in the Chamber. In order to anchor this financially, we have tabled an amendment. But there's still plenty of work to be done. Worldwide, one in three girls and women are victims of violence, one in three. Every three seconds, a girl gets married out in the world, every three seconds. Just last week, MEPs in Iraq suggested lowering the marriageable age of girls to nine years. What is the Minister going to do to prevent child marriages and what does this mean for young girls' return policies? Is there going to be a revised version of the country policy? Women's rights defenders such as Amal, grassroots organisations and trade unions play an important role in reaching the most vulnerable. Unfortunately, these organisations are given less space worldwide. Access to finance is becoming more difficult, even in the Netherlands. Moreover, the safety of activists and their families is often under pressure, as Amal's example in Yemen showed. In what way will the Minister support these often small, local but very important organisations? How does she ensure that they can count on the support of our embassies and the ministry? But that is not what we are here for, because attention to gender is important everywhere, not just for this minister, but for all her fellow Members. I don't see enough of that. For this reason, the PvdA would like to see cabinet-wide work on what is called "mainstreaming" in professional jargon, giving attention to the impact and positive impact on women and girls throughout the process of policy, implementation and evaluation. So no dolls count, but men and women and, as far as I'm concerned, just strive for fifty-fifty. Development cooperation is there to help people build a better life. Emergency aid is available for people in crisis situations. Unfortunately, both are needed more than ever. We are therefore pleased to read in the second letter of amendment that the Minister is making 140 million available for emergency aid. For us, it is very important that this emergency aid actually reaches the most vulnerable people. The Yemen crisis shows how important it is for aid organisations to have access. Does the Minister agree with us that the criteria for financing emergency aid, such as effectiveness, local network and capacity, should be maintained in order to ensure optimal access? And do I understand that, despite positive evaluations, the Dutch Relief Fund ceases to exist? Wasn't that just a good way to respond to needs in the world? In the coalition agreement we read: The Netherlands will fight the root causes of migration through the targeted approach to improving reception in the region. But reception in the region is an end in itself, and not a solution to the root causes of migration. That takes more than that. As far as development cooperation is concerned, I would therefore like to inform the Minister that education is important not only for refugees, as stated in the government agreement, but for everyone, and especially for women and girls. This requires well-educated teachers, but also accessible and safe schools. Does the Minister agree with us and is she prepared to give this a place in the broader, inclusive development policy? The future of our focus countries has already been mentioned, but I wonder on what basis they are being revised. And what are we going to do about countries being removed from the list? How does the Minister see the role of the Netherlands in relation to forgotten crises, such as those in Libya, CAR and South Sudan? We also see an important role for the diaspora in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with us and, if so, how would it shape this cooperation? Honest work works worldwide. Government and business have a shared responsibility in this regard. Hence our initiative law on child labour care, which was adopted by the Chamber last year and will be dealt with next month in the Upper House. This shared responsibility is the basis for the aid and trade agenda. How is the Minister going to ensure that companies, but also the government itself, actually fulfil their responsibilities, and that the OECD and ILO directives are actually implemented? Finally, I come to the sustainable development goals, which are actually only on the agenda with this minister. What is she going to do to ensure, outside her own ministry, that the world goals get the attention they deserve? And what is the role of civil society in this? How do we give them enough space to contribute? One thing's for sure: we make a fairer world together. The PvdA Group therefore looks forward to constructive and inclusive cooperation with this Minister and wishes her every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u126	I hear a wonderful plea from Mrs van den Hul for equal rights for women and girls. Surely it is a thorn in the eye that we finance Sharia courts with Dutch taxpayers' money? For women have no equal rights under Sharia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u127	I assume that Mrs Van Weerdenburg is referring again to the motion before us. I'm not familiar with this motion myself. But I think it's very important that we do everything we can to make women resilient. And that starts with investing in women's organisations themselves. That is why I am also calling for grassroots organisations, which are increasingly under pressure in today's world, with the Trumps and Putins of this world. Mrs Van Weerdenburg may know that I was a woman's representative at the United Nations. When I was there, progress at the UN has been shattered on all sides for years. In fact, it was negotiated to preserve what is in those treaties. And that is precisely why I think we should stand for women's organisations. Not that we here, from our lazy chair, decide what's good for women. Women's organisations in the south must be able to take the lead themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u128	This sounds very nice. But in practice, your party also voted against that motion. And yes, I'm coming up with that motion again. I will continue to make that motion for a resolution until everyone here realizes that it is ridiculous that Dutch money is used to finance this type of practice. But I have some good news for Mrs Van den Hul. I'll retable the motion tomorrow. And I'm coming to see her. Maybe she wants to sign the motion this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u129	Then I will certainly be able to find the way to the PVV when I come up with a motion on strengthening women's rights worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to welcome this new minister to the plenary and I look forward to good and fruitful cooperation with her. Mr. Chairman. Just before the summer I was in Lebanon and visited fifteen families, refugee families from Syria in degrading situations, with still small children. Among them was Mehmed, a 11-year-old boy, who told me through the interpreter that he had never been to school. His parents had to flee the war each time and had also moved several times within Lebanon itself. A few weeks later, the Christian Union was allowed to join the negotiations. This story stuck in my head. What could we do for him, for his brothers, his sisters, his parents and the many other refugees with him? With Mehmed there are today about 65 million people fleeing or displaced, many of them victims in conflict areas such as Yemen, South Sudan, Burundi and, of course, the 5 million Syrians in Syria themselves. The Royingha refugees are also known; 30,000 children among them. That is why it is a good thing that this cabinet invests in development cooperation, not only in emergency aid, as is stated extensively in the government agreement, but also, and some fellow Members may forget that, in the fight against poverty. Structural poverty reduction will be 1.8 billion in the coming years. After years of austerity, the trend has finally turned and we are going to invest in combating extreme poverty, in emergency aid, decent care in the region, in protecting children's rights and in cushioning the shocks of climate change. Rightly priorities. I have recently adopted SDG 1 and SDG 8 and I am particularly committed to combating extreme poverty, particularly in the case of refugees and refugee children. Mr. Chairman. We have now had the letter of amendment from the Minister. We have seen that there are additional investments: first of all 140 million to emergency aid, but also 50 million to reception in the region. That is urgently needed, because the conditions there really need to be improved. In this context, I ask the Minister whether the Dutch Relief Alliance, the Dutch Emergency Cluster, will actually continue in the coming years. I would like a response from the Minister. Is the Minister also prepared to invest in refugee children, as in Lebanon and Jordan? They often have no perspective on education, especially the girls are vulnerable. The Global Partnership for Education focuses on education in these situations, as well as UNICEF. Can the Minister explain where and how they are invested in them? I would also like to draw attention to psychosocial aid and the trauma processing in the emergency aid programmes. Is the Minister prepared to give specific attention to this within the emergency budget? Mr. Chairman. We're gonna have the winter again. On the Greek islands in particular, last year we saw how painful the situation can be if it really freezes again. We know that last year people died of freezing cold. What can the Dutch government, of course in cooperation with the other EU Member States and the European Commission, do to prevent these distressing situations, to get people out of those tents on the Greek islands and, of course, to bring them to the mainland for humane shelter? I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Then the second part: the root causes. We need to look not only at emergency aid but also at the root causes of Africa. More than half of the children living in extreme poverty worldwide live in sub-Saharan Africa. Many young people do not have access to vocational training, the labour market and entrepreneurship. It is these young people who need prospects. I ask, like CDA colleague Kuik, to see what else is possible through the Addressing Root Causes Fund. Could we perhaps do even more from that fund or expand the fund so that it becomes more accessible, not only to NGOs but perhaps also to cooperation between business, NGOs and knowledge institutions, in order to achieve a more effective use of these funds, and possibly also to increase the ARC fund? I'd like to hear a response on that point. Then with regard to the most vulnerable. Social protection, social safety nets, the Christian Union has always asked here in the Chamber in recent years or can we look at how we can combat this extreme poverty among children through the programmes provided by UNICEF in particular and whether social safety nets can be established. Is the Minister also willing to continue this long-term funding that will end in 2018? This has produced good results in recent years. Then the government agreement says a few things about the importance of civil society organisations, in particular because of their specific expertise and their scope. In what way does the Minister intend to use the knowledge and expertise of these civil society organisations? It was a custom here in the Chamber to use 25% of the budget through civil society organisations. Will the Minister also translate that same ambition into actual spending of that expertise and that range of civil society organisations? Then fair trade. My fellow Members have already spoken about it. In addition to SDG 1, I have also embraced SDG 8: fair work and combating child labour. Modern slavery and exploitation are still too common. Of course, we have the covenants for that. Mr Hijink has spoken about this before. This has been going on for a number of years, and we must continue to do so, but the coalition agreement also requires that, if this is not going well and if there are not enough results in the next two years, we really need to look at a lower legal limit. Is the Minister convinced of that? Is the Minister also prepared to take an active part as the Netherlands in the UN Convention, which should give effect to the UN Implementation Agreement when it comes to combating forced labour, child labour and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr Voordewind is right to say that we have had this agreement approach for some time now. I mentioned a few examples later that it is far from going well with corporate social responsibility. My question is: when has Mr Voordewind reached the point that he thinks it is time for tougher legal measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u133	The coalition agreement, under which our signature is signed, says that we will give the IMVO agreements another two years. But that is not without obligation, it is true that if there is not sufficient results to be achieved, then it must be clear from an evaluation report that binding measures must be taken. You and I know that coercive measures are legal measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u134	Well, look, the result of an evaluation can of course be judged very differently. What one will vote very positive will vote the other very negative. So what should be the outcome of the agreement approach in your view? At what point do you say: now is the time for tougher measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u135	The UN is in the process of defining these limits. These limits are actually known: that is the implementation of the Ruggie framework, i.e. the due diligence to see whether the ILO working conditions are met. Our measure will be: are the IMVO measures really and concrete enough to meet the verifiable targets that the UN is asking of us? When that treaty comes, I just assume that this cabinet too will want to sign that treaty, and then, of course, we will see how the IMVO agreements are in accordance with it. Well, if everything is implemented as the treaty dictates, yes, wonderful. If not, we will have to look at it fairly through the evaluation and then we will really have to look at a legal lower limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u136	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u137	Mr. Chairman. Yeah, that's about the IMVO agreements. Well, I've said enough about that in the interruptions. Then I come to the Child Labour Fund. We are pleased that the Child Labour Fund, which was created at the initiative of the Labour Party and the Christian Union in the previous cabinet period, is also funded for 2018. I would also ask the Minister to continue to do so in the coming years. Among other things, the Christian Union would like to use the money for child labour-free zones, a successful approach by the coalition Stop child labour. Is the Minister prepared to do so, given the successful results? Then there's the National Climate Fund. The cost of climate change is currently mainly among the poorest in the world. The Paris Agreement requires substantial investment in climate adaptation and migration. We must make vulnerable countries resilient to floods, droughts and food shortages. This can be done, among other things, by investing in ecosystems, in trees, wetlands, wetlands, soil fertility, food security. That is why we invest in the quality of the environment, in biodiversity, in food security. Wetlands are literally vital in the drying-out sub-Sahara. Is the Minister prepared to finance a combined approach to climate and development from the climate fund, for example for the conservation of ecosystems in the Sahel and sub-Saharan Africa? I'd like to hear her response on that point. Finally. Fortunately, the action Serious Request this year, on the initiative of the Red Cross, also pays attention to the refugee children about which the government agreement speaks so extensively. I started my introduction with Mehmed, as an example. They are committed to financing and getting lost refugee children back together. I call on everyone from this chair to give this action generously again in the coming December. Let's not forget children like Mehmed: 11 years old, never been to school. This has to be done otherwise! That is why the Christian Union has also said yes to an ambitious government agreement on this point. I wish the Minister a great deal of wisdom and God bless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Each individual has the right to maximum freedom to give effect to one's own life. In doing so, he may use part of nature. He may even claim part of nature, provided he leaves enough of the same quality for others. No one should claim nature more than anyone else, because the possibilities that nature offers us are no one's personal merit. Is that a nice thought from the Party for Animals? No, of John Locke, one of the founders of liberalism. I thought I'd find some connection today. Mr. Chairman. Food safety and food security are becoming a greater challenge due to international uncertainty. That is why we need to focus on a situation where we are self-sufficient. The Netherlands should not extract all kinds of raw materials from other countries, but ensure that we can produce food for our own people. Those were wise words from Mr Buma of the CDA. At D66 I thought I'd see where we can find a connection. I had a little more trouble finding some basics there, but what is always at the top of D66 is the sound whatever comes towards us, we just have to be smart about it. I'm very much in favour of that. If you unleash the principles of these three parties on the situation of the world, we are in the sixth extinction wave, because we are losing our plant and animal species, the biodiversity we are all dependent on, massively, then it seems as if we are not doing so well in our own mind. That's annoying. In the Netherlands we still have it well. We will be the last or one of the last to experience the harsh blows of it, but especially those who live in areas where it is already incredibly difficult to provide for their livelihood in a normal way and not to be devastated by hunger, suffer the greatest burden of our destruction of the earth. That's the bottom line. This Minister is very welcome once again; we have already spoken for a while in a general discussion, like no other, I think, has the look at our international responsibility. We face global challenges and the budget before us speaks about this: The Netherlands takes responsibility for achieving sustainable development goals, worldwide and in its own country. But that means that we also need to make this concrete: fighting poverty and hunger, tackling inequality, loss of ecosystems that are directly dependent on the most vulnerable people on this earth, and combating climate change. Because this drought and floods, the disruption of the already fragile habitats of these people, is putting huge craters in the potential to get out of that poverty. Mr. Chairman. Then why isn't that happening? The answer seems to lie in one of the pillars that I found in the Christian Union, namely Peter, who said: "For the good I want, I do not do, but the evil I do not want, I do." I think that's where the crux is. The crux is the question of whether we are really prepared to address and tackle our own share of the global crisis. Then we'll have to find out... I see there are some interruptions, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u140	I see it too, Mrs Ouwehand, but perhaps you can finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u141	I think this interruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u142	No, I think it's okay if you finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u143	Maybe the interruption will get even brighter. I wanted to say the following sentence. We can only conclude that the Netherlands is a trading country, which has made us rich and still makes us very rich, but that this trade has an incredibly high price. We are not prepared to allow the goals we support on paper, namely combating higher, poverty, climate change and loss of biodiversity, to be truly leading over our huge trade drive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u144	I know Mrs. Ouwehand as a good quoter of the Bible. She knows it well, but I think she also knows very well what is meant there. It's not some kind of good talk of doing evil, it's just a call to do good. She agrees with me, doesn't she?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u145	Oh, yeah. I was raised Christian and no longer religious, but I think many people in the Bible have said things that we can learn from. I found this quote so interesting because I think it gives insight into human psychology. We do want to. No one doubts that, but there are forces pulling on us that make sure we don't. If you translate it into modern times, one of those forces could be that we are very attached to our way of life and to trading. That's our habit, when we...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u146	You may respond to that, Mr. Dijkgraaf, but do not stray too far from the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u147	I think this is the very essence of the OS policy. The question is: are we prepared to look in the mirror and make choices that favour people in Africa? Does Mrs Ouwehand agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u148	Yes, but I have to see some more evidence of that at the SGP, with all due respect. I really need to see that the SGP is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u149	The free translation of that text of Peter is: the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. I was just about to say that to the Party of Animals, but then I realized that translation wouldn't quite land.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u150	So yes, there goes the equation again. But I understand Mrs Ouwehand's intention. The question is, of course, the same. With regard to climate objectives, the government has focused on sub-Saharan Africa. I just asked the Minister to do the same. I suppose this also has the support of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u151	Sure, sure, absolutely. I think I've gotten off to a pretty good start, you guys aren't used to it from me, but what I wanted to say here is that I believe in the will, but that it requires more. That is why I quoted this quote. It also requires us to overcome our own habits and patterns. Nothing is easier than to keep doing things the way we're used to and looking at the trade surplus that it gives us. That is very nice, but we must also look at the consequences. We really want to address these consequences, but we don't do that because we stick to our old habits. I want to get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u152	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u153	But then Mrs Ouwehand will also see that we also have climate references in the trade agreements. Then she will also see that, of course, we have to sit down together, including civil society, in order to achieve the climate goals. As far as we are concerned, we must also focus on the poorest, precisely in order to prevent climate refugees in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u154	That wasn't a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u155	Absolutely, but it's gonna take more than that. The plea for investment in sub-Saharan Africa is, of course, taken from my heart, but we also have to take care of it, and that is much more difficult to make it not more difficult for people in those regions than it already is. That means that we have a moral obligation to really stop this climate change. Just references to the climate agreement and a coalition agreement that says, trust us; we will come up with the details that are not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u156	I'd like to see if we can do the Animal Party a hand-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u157	Maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u158	It's the Party for Animals and not the Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u159	Excuse me, I have to practice on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u160	It's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u161	You mentioned it yourself: we are a rich country. We're good at trading. I think we're the champions of commerce. We are the second world exporter in the field of agro and food. How can we work together to use these championships in Africa, for example, to combat climate change or to better guarantee food security? Do you see any possibility of cooperation between the Party for Animals and the CDA in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u162	There is certainly that possibility, but that means that the CDA must take the step towards an approach to food as a human right and not primarily as a commodity. It's wonderful if we can be champions in something, but first, in the first place, as far as we're concerned, in place one to place ten champions in protecting the vulnerable worldwide. This means, I repeat, that we must see food primarily as a human right that we cannot undermine, whereas the Dutch championship in export is really based on food as a commodity. That would not be a problem if the result was not that people are hungry, that there is climate change and that we are losing nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr Amhaouch, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u164	Food as a human right; I think this might be the beginning of a good cooperation with the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u165	I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u166	Proceed, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u167	Mr. Chairman. So the painful conclusion is that we do have good ambitions and really support them all, but that something must also change in our central way of life and thinking. Then you will not escape simply questioning the commercial policy of the Netherlands. Yeah, it'll make us rich, but is it worth the price? The Party for Animals doesn't think so. Given the government's ambitions, the cabinet actually has two thoughts: yes, we really want to tackle climate change and combat poverty, but we do not want to give up the Dutch championship as the second exporter of agricultural products in the world. We believe that this is not possible and that we must move towards a different approach, but I also have solutions. In the United Nations, a Special Rapporteur for Human Rights has been appointed to provide a human rights component for this whole food debate, which is taking place worldwide: Hilal Elver. Her predecessor was Olivier De Sniper. These rapporteurs on the right to food look independently at all available scientific studies on how to organise agriculture worldwide to ensure that people have food everywhere; food as a human right and not primarily as a commodity. Can we agree that we are taking that approach, so that food is a human right, and that we are looking at how to organise our agriculture from that starting point? Then the Netherlands has much to offer in the knowledge about the processing. I refer to Rijk Zwaan as one of the companies that is very good at this and can really contribute to the development in vulnerable areas of a regional agricultural economy. But the downside is also that we have to admit that industrial agriculture has more disadvantages than benefits and that meat consumption in the rich West here in the Netherlands does not least threaten the global ambition to feed everyone directly. Can we be mature enough to admit that and also look for change? Mr. Chairman. Looking at the rest of the trade, apart from the food, it's also really the question of whether it's so smart to move forward with that trade agenda, which we see is that there are, let's say, big risks to the climate, without having any idea how we're going to achieve those climate targets ourselves. Yes, the ambitions are there, but if, in the meantime, you commit yourself to even more free trade, which we may have to conclude in a year or two years' time that makes meeting our climate goal complicated, how can we go back? One of the most worrying examples of this is the CETA agreement between the European Union and Canada, which is widely praised as a treaty that does justice to all interests, but in Canada tar sand oil is extracted, which we know is one of the most polluting fossil fuels in the world. Rather, this Chamber felt that, in view of human rights, biodiversity and climate, it would be better not to import tar sand oil into the European Union at all. That's what we wanted. The former Secretary of State for Infrastructure and the Environment spoke about this in Europe. The answer was: that is not really possible, because we are also in agreement with Canada on a free trade agreement. We now know that tar sand oil is 23 times more polluting and dangerous to the climate than on average fossil fuels and that we have lifted import tariffs. However, we must note that this does not make it easier to achieve the climate objectives, that it does not make it easier to tackle human rights violations and the loss of vulnerable ecosystems worldwide, because all this is accompanied by tar sand oil. That is also my plea: first look at the goals you support, and then decide whether it is wise to make a deal with, in this case, Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u168	I shall not go into the glove Mrs Ouwehand threw at me. I always find it very sympathetic that the Party for Animals is throwing on the table, but the glass is always half empty with you. And you're just choosing CETA as an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u169	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u170	Do you agree with me that, by concluding the CETA agreement with Canada, at least the environmental standards of the European Union now apply, which are higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u171	Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand, because this discussion has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u172	I'm not doing that for nothing, because I'm very aware that CETA is being sold as that green trade deal that makes the whole world better. I'm afraid to take it out because I don't think that's true. How can you seriously shape climate goals if you don't keep the most polluting fuel in the world, that tar sand oil, out of European tanks because of that deal with Canada?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u173	Mrs Ouwehand does not answer my question, so I ask him again. The standards we have in the European Union are high; you know that. Is it true that CETA requires a country like Canada to comply with those high standards of the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yes, that's right, but at least Mr Bouali knows that, I hope that we have never achieved the commitments we have made to stop climate change, and also to combat biodiversity loss, which is not in such a legally enforceable agreement, neither have we achieved the goals we have agreed on in the Biodiversity Treaty. Then D66 cannot but admit that the standards in Europe, whatever we may have, must be raised. And up sharply, because climate change is a major problem, and the loss of biodiversity is a major problem. And then I'm gonna keep human rights out of the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u175	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u176	I will conclude my speech, Mr President. So you know that the standards need to be raised because we need to achieve those goals. It's almost literally in the coalition agreement: we don't know how yet, but we're gonna do it. Is it wise, for example, not only to ask D66 but to the whole Chamber, and of course to the Minister and the Cabinet as a whole, to continue to promote even more free trade and food products, which you can ask whether it is good to drag around the world in view of the huge emissions involved? A research agency has already calculated a number of years ago that the amount of energy involved in the cultivation of soya for the Netherlands and the import by the Netherlands of soya, among other things to feed our own livestock, is sufficient to provide energy to five million Dutch households. Would it then be wise to save that energy and, in the light of climate change, to put an end to those soy imports, or would it be wise to continue to focus on dragging food around the world? It shouldn't be surprising that this doesn't seem so clever to the Party for Animals. She calls on this minister to test the good ambitions in the area of climate change, the fight against poverty and the fight against hunger in the light of the daily actions of the Dutch cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you, Madam President, and a warm welcome to the Minister. I think everyone agrees, there are many challenges: poverty, hunger, wars, terror, drought, unstable countries. This minister has quite a challenge. I do not think she will have the ambition to solve all this, because that is, of course, impossible. But it's nice to be able to contribute to that. I believe that the central question in the government agreement is how the cabinet intends to close the gap between less money in the long term and the need to face international challenges. I do not shine away from the fact that there is more money in the short term. That's good, but OS is also something of the long term. And I think there is a challenge there, even if you look at the basis of support in Dutch society. To be honest, I'm a little worried about it. One of the answers could be that there is a better combination between what the government does and what private business does. Can the Minister indicate if she wants to integrate? Could, for example, an additional tax deduction play a role in encouraging private companies to do things together with the government in developing countries? How does it view improved access to finance? Is the Minister prepared to investigate the possibilities for this? Mr. Chairman. Many colleagues have already talked about tackling the root causes of migration. I am a little concerned about the excessive attention paid to reception in the region. The shelter's good. He has to. That shelter has actually happened far too little, but should not eat the budget. Let's start at the source, at the fundamental reasons why people decide to leave home. They don't like to do that. We must prevent the need for even more money for reception and asylum. Let's give it to those people that they have a future there. Two concrete suggestions. One: don't just give up the existing, carefully built relationship with African partner countries, but invest in it. There's just been a little discussion about it. I would like to see the Minister present her intentions in this matter. We have already reduced the number of countries enormously, and I would regret it if this were to be further reduced because of the need for funding for reception. We can't really do that. Two: not only spend the added budget on reception in the region, but make a priority of investing in projects and organisations that focus on education, employment and entrepreneurship. It is precisely these things that can offer African young people a long-term perspective. How is the Minister going to implement its policy on this issue? Madam President. Investment in trade also affects our relations with Israel. The many start-ups and desalination projects alone show that there are many economic opportunities in cooperation with Israel. Earlier, the government indicated that it sees cooperation with Israel in the field of innovation as a spearhead in Dutch policy. I ask the Minister if she would like to fill this point by, among other things, the appointment of a special trade coordinator. In our view, that can help enormously. Mr. Chairman. The beauty of a small fraction is that you have multiple portfolios. I told you in an interruption, I also do agriculture. I also adopted SDG 2 about hunger and malnutrition. I would love it if something were to be done with that great agricultural knowledge that there is. We're the world's second exporter. Then you can have all kinds of discussions, and we have them with Mrs Ouwehand and others about whether all this should be done. But there is one thing I think we agree on, namely that we have a great deal of knowledge and that we can use it for the sake of hunger and malnutrition in other countries. I still see very few links between the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Agriculture on the one hand. Now there is a Minister of Christian Union House and they always have a warm heart for OS, so there is no problem in that regard. I can see Mr Voordewind getting excited. Can the Minister make that connection? Is she willing to do that? Is the Minister prepared to make concrete proposals in this area, together with her colleague in agriculture, with the aim of achieving better policies to provide food security for the poorest in the world?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u179	In this context, I am very interested and interested in the appeal you are making to the Minister. I have previously made a very similar proposal, namely to see whether we can recover degraded agricultural land and return it to fertile agricultural land, and to contact the Minister for Agriculture. I wonder if you recognize yourself in GroenLinks' proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yeah, I was in the car back then. I was a little late. I won't go into the cause.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u181	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u182	But I followed your speech and I was very pleased with it. As far as I'm concerned, it's very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u183	Yes, of course. I have made it very clear that we can eliminate the root causes of migration if we look together, together, together, with other ministries, parties, civil society organisations and so on, to see if we can invest in these kinds of topics on a large scale, I do not know if the word exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u184	You're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u185	Yes, so my message would be, which I think is also Mrs Diks' message: development cooperation should not be a hobby of one ministry but should be an integral policy of the government, including the trade agreements that Mrs Ouwehand is about to ask a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u186	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u187	Not by chance. Oddly enough, the SGP Group and the Party for Animals are reasonably in line with those trade agreements. It is about investment in the agricultural economies in the developing countries. I very much agree with the SGP's call just now for the cabinet. But can we agree with the SGP that we see food primarily as a human right and not primarily as a commodity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u188	In the next sentence, yes. If you look at how the protection of citizens against business has been achieved in Europe, it is often due to food riots, because traders bought the food, left the cities to starve and then asked for huge prices. I think Mrs Ouwehand is also looking in that direction. Of course it can be done through trade, fine, but it should not be an abuse of the situation. It must be fair and affordable and food must be accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u189	Sure. And whatever goes with it is that if we dare to see food as human rights, we must also dare to look critically at places where a lot of food, including meat, is consumed, such as the Netherlands, and what that means for a fair distribution of food around the world. Would the SGP be prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u190	Yesterday we had a residence break. That's very nice and close by in a church with different churches together and then we think about what the Bible means for standing in society. Yesterday it was about moderation. That is something very beautiful and everyone makes their own choices, but that can teach our Western society a lesson. When I come back from Africa, I'm ashamed of myself sometimes. Let me just look in my own mirror. It's always easier than pointing to others. So there's a point. Madam President. I was talking about SDG 2 but I'd like to go wider. Earlier, my group asked the government in a motion to identify the advantages and disadvantages of an SDG test. That was with the previous government. I'm expecting this government to just do that. Is that right? We believe that the benefits outweigh the possible disadvantages. I would therefore ask the Minister whether she is prepared to come up with a proposal for the concrete design of an SDG test; Mrs Diks also spoke about it. Mr. Chairman. In the context of the SDGs, I would also like to draw attention to the cruel practices in countries such as China, India and Albania in the field of gendercide against young and unborn girls in particular. Combating violence against girls and women is important, not only as part of the SDGs but also as the policy priority of the previous cabinet. Does the cabinet intend to continue this line and thus stand up for the most vulnerable un- and newborn children? Finally, Mr President. If you look at this minister's mediatred, of course, Members of Parliament always do so in order to get a picture of who you are dealing with right away, she seems to have quite a portion of perseverance and coolness. In my opinion, these are very good qualities to meet this challenge. So I'd like to see that reflected in her policy, too. I would therefore like to wish her God's blessing at her work and wish her much wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u191	It is good to hear that you want to put the SDGs and the key so prominently on the agenda. Do you think all SDGs are equally important?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u192	No, in life, everything is never as important. It can't be. If D66 considers everything equally important, then at least Mr Bouali is off the rails.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u193	Then I'll take you with me. Then we'll go to SDG 5. You were just talking about the test. SDG 5 is about women's and girls' rights. How do you view the SRGR element under that SDG?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u194	Questions have been asked about gendercide in China, for example. I'm worried that this is exactly what's being used for the other side, for getting rid of girls because they want a boy. That was the point I wanted to make. The previous government, with the support of D66 by the way, went against that. I hope that this government, with the same support from D66, will do so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u195	We're almost at the end of the first term of the Chamber. I hope that Mr Dijkgraaf has heard the contribution of the VVD in the car, the ode to trade. Now I heard Mr Dijkgraaf say that he thinks it is important for the cabinet to commit itself to financing entrepreneurs. He suggested the idea of some sort of special coordinator for trade. What does he think of the VVD's idea of asking this minister for a proactive trade agenda? There is not much about it in the government agreement, but I talked about the ambition of business to earn 40% of GDP in trade. Is he okay with that call from the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u196	Sure. When I started this job, I was actually kind of negative about it, like it was some kind of pubes. Since I came to Africa, I see what business is doing there, at least when it's connected to those goals, such as caring for the poorest and so on. Then you see beautiful things and you notice that governments there are asking: please continue with that. This is due, among other things, to the fact that, when the business community is there, it is often for a very long period of time, while, if they depend on projects, they are sometimes ruined after a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u197	Thank you, Mr. Dijkgraaf. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you, Mr President. We have a new Secretary of State for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I would like to congratulate Mrs Kaag on her achievements so far, and I would particularly like to wish her a great deal of wisdom, because at the beginning of her presidency she has an important choice to make: will she enter the books as Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation or as Minister for Migration Control? Because in the coalition agreement, we read that development aid is mainly about the causes and consequences of migration. We are somewhat concerned about this, because development cooperation should not be a hidden instrument for our border control and our own interests. Development aid must serve to improve the perspective of very people who have less than we do. No Netherlands as guardian of fortress Europe, but a Netherlands as guardian of international justice and solidarity, because there are so many challenges we face in our world. Equal rights for women This issue has often been emphasised enough today: climate and sustainability, food and water: our blind staring at the theme of migration does not do justice to that. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. We also hope that the Minister will be the forewoman of a trend break, because development cooperation has been cut a lot in recent times. In 2005, we spent 0.8% of our income on development cooperation. Now that's only 0.6%. The poorest in the world have been saved hard. Unfortunately, this cabinet doesn't change that. The terrible reduction of EUR 1.4 billion from the Rutte/Asscher cabinet in the previous period is continuing and investments are mainly occasional. As a result, the share of our income going to development aid is steadily falling. In 2021, we will lack EUR 1.4 billion to keep the international agreement to spend 0.7% of our income on development aid. Even 0.7 cents per euro is too much for the poorest. Isn't that a mockery for a rich country like the Netherlands? Is it not also a mockery that EUR 1.5 billion more will go to the defence sector to achieve the NATO 2% standard, when we have not been contributing enough to help the poorest for years? Money for bombs, no money for bread. Money for fighters, no money for medicine. Money for submarines, no money for school books.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u199	May I help Mr Kuzu out of the dream? The Netherlands is also not going to reach the 2% NATO standard, but does he see with me that 1.8 billion more is being invested in development cooperation over the next four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u200	Yes. I said: I hope that the Minister can bring about a trend break. We welcome it, but we see in the budget that it is occasional. You have been a supporter of development cooperation in recent years, so I hope that you will continue to work with the Christian Union to ensure that this remains secure. At the same time, I hear a lot of noise in this Chamber saying that we need to achieve this 2% NATO standard for defence. I would like to see the whole Chamber show the same ambition to achieve that 0.7% for development cooperation. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u201	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u202	We hope so together with Mr Kuzu. We see that the trend has been reversed, but does Mr Kuzu also recognise that development without security, without the additional investments needed for Defence, which we are discussing this afternoon, does not result in sustainable development?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u203	Of course it goes hand in hand. My appeal is to express the same level of ambition for both subjects. Indeed, it goes hand in hand, with us as DENK placing much more emphasis on conflict prevention than on investing in submarines. Anyway, we'll do the defense budget later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u204	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u205	DENK is champion in development cooperation with GroenLinks at 2.1 billion in the election programme. We stand before a just world. We therefore call on the Minister to vote in favour of the Grashoff motion. to be carried out. Let our budget for development cooperation rise to 0.7% of our income. We would like to hear if the Minister is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. The money that is there must end well. Too much of the money that should actually go to other countries is now being spent in the Netherlands. Half a billion goes to the first 12 months of reception of asylum seekers from developing countries. Isn't that crooked, I ask the Minister. People run from war and hopelessness. The money we can use to solve these problems is not to solve those problems, but to take care of the people in our own country. That's the same as for a leaking tap not to call a plumber, but to constantly buy buckets to catch the leaking water. Shouldn't we just stop doing that? I have a motion on this under consideration. Then there are two other important points. "No water, no electricity, Gaza is already uninhabitable" "That's what a headline said this year." A humanitarian disaster is currently taking place in Gaza. There may be an extra EUR 1.6 million going to the Palestinian territories, but that is not enough. Does the Minister share this view, is she committed to a higher contribution and will this money actually end up in Gaza? Then my second point, the Rohingya. I would like to ask the Minister whether the aid organisations, the United Nations and the fact-finding mission already have access to Rakhine? How much additional resources will the Minister use to help the Rohingya? I have tabled an amendment on this together with Mr Van der Hul. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a general point. Some political parties often create a false contradiction between the Netherlands and the world. Money shouldn't go to Africa, it should go to our elders. Money should not go to refugees, but to tax cuts. This is fake, this is mean, this is unfair and it smells like folklore. There's no contradiction between people here and people there. We share the same earth, the same dreams and the same needs. We therefore call on this minister to always be a minister, but always! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We ask her to work to increase support for a fair development policy. We are counting on her to form alliances with civil society organisations, who often do great work for our world and inform people about it. DENK is concerned about this. Next year, almost 70% of the budget for information on development cooperation will be cut. I believe we were at EUR 5 million in 2011. In the coming years we will go to €250,000. That then runs even further down. That is why we want to give the Minister the last word: dare to proclaim the usefulness of development cooperation. Is she willing to bet more on this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u206	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. Tomorrow we will continue with the first term of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-22-tweedekamer-3.u207	I shall suspend the sitting until 2.05 p.m.
