ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm and outgoing welcome to the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us. We have eight participants on the side of the Chamber, no seven. The first speaker is Mr Özdil of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. He has, like everyone else, three minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. While 18 out of 25 European countries have managed to define by law what physically difficult professions are, this cabinet has for years acted as if this was an impossible task. From construction workers to window cleaners, no one understands it anymore. Also the assumption that it would all cost too much money if we let those people retire earlier, can be put in the trash. Because let's not forget who we're talking about here: we're talking about people who can't work until the age of 67, because after all these years they're physically exhausted, who have a shorter life expectancy due to their heavy professions and will therefore receive less AOW benefit, which often started working at a young age and thus have been paying contributions much longer than their highly educated peers. Mr. Chairman. NRC Handelsblad refers to the Research Centre for Education and Labour Market, which has carried out research on this subject. The age at which people get average health complaints is 53 years of age for those with lower education, 72 years of age for those with higher education. In short, there should have been a solution to this unfair, unequal situation. Why is that solution still not there? In this week's letter, the Secretary of State says that it has not succeeded in carrying out the unanimously adopted motion of my Green Left colleague Linda Voortman. In the motion, the cabinet is called upon to define what physically difficult appeals are. It's very curious to move a motion that has been unanimously adopted so easily. To be honest, the GroenLinks Group is a little disappointed about this, about what eighteen countries around us have succeeded and what, according to all kinds of reports, is also very easy to do. I'd like to believe to the Minister that she didn't get out with the social partners. But how? That doesn't make sense in her brief letter. Was there the will to get out or is there the opposite saying: where there is no will, there is no way at all? My first question is therefore: can the Secretary of State at least explain quickly in a letter to the Chamber where the difference of opinion lies? On which professions is unanimity that they are physically heavy? On which professions is there a difference of opinion? In other words, where did consultation with the social partners break up? I therefore ask the Secretary of State to write a comprehensive letter on this subject, in which she answers these questions in more detail. Mr. Chairman. We can discuss for days, months and years here in this Chamber, but to be honest, all those people in the Netherlands working their way in, day out physically broken are quite ready. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, rightly so. Time and again there is a delay and delay when it is time for politics to stand up for them. But when it comes to restricting their rights, politics suddenly turns out to be very efficient. Mr. Chairman. Finally. It is our responsibility, especially in view of the motion for a resolution adopted by Mr Voortman, not to do something tomorrow but now. People who are obviously in heavy professions do not help, because then you will have discussion, can really not. My final question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether she would like to declare at least a number of obviously heavy professions. That really is the minimum responsibility that we can and must take now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. Then Mr Van Kent of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I've been talking to a lot of people lately who can't make it. The body can no longer work after decades and the wallet makes it impossible to stop working earlier. The result is incapacity for work, reluctantly sucking through or having to live the rest of the life with a much lower income, because the pension has to be taken up earlier. The age of AOW has risen rapidly in an antisocial manner, causing people to find themselves in great difficulties. It's also unfair. People with practical training often start working earlier, often work harder and also work longer. It is precisely for them that it is impossible to stop working before, because it is very expensive. That is why the SP is making two proposals today. Lower the AOW to 65 years and make arrangements to stop working earlier than the AOW age again possible. Lowering the AOW age to 65 is not only out of respect for people who have worked hard for years, but also to stop the senseless job application by elderly people. Young people can therefore find a job before doing so. Therefore, the SP wants to reduce the AOW age to 65 years. Roof deckers, painters, plasterers and many others don't make it to the 65. They become disabled or have to accept a lower pension for the rest of their lives. For example, the answers we received yesterday from the Secretary of State showed that there is an 80% increase in the number of disabled persons in the metal sector among the over 60s. The Economic Institute for Construction concluded that the introduction of early retirement is affordable and necessary. Yesterday, the Secretary of State replied to questions I raised earlier that the concept of "heavy occupation" is difficult to define. That is why I propose to investigate the costs and the consequences of the complete removal of the fine on earlier termination, the RVU levy. I also propose that we examine the costs and consequences of abolishing the fine for those who, for example, have earned twice as much as twice over the last ten years. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this? Or does she sit still and even in her afternoons pretend to be in agreement with the compromise that has ever been reached with the VVD, which means that people have to work endlessly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. Then Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. He replaces Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As of 1 January of next year, the AOW age is 66 and it will increase even further in the coming years. What we have seen over the past ten years is a matter of concern to the PvdA Group. In itself, it's nice that people can work longer, but you saw ten years ago, in 2007, that the higher educated actually worked the longest and the lower educated stopped first. On average, they are also more involved in the heavy professions. You can see that this trend is now exactly the opposite. That shows that when you talk to people, you hear that for the low-skilled, the lower-income people are no longer able to stop working earlier. That is no longer financially possible. As far as the PvdA is concerned, a solution must be found. We have given this a lot of thought, because this is a major social issue, including in the electoral programme. How do you shape this? Do you have to have a heavy-duty occupation regime, which has been discussed endlessly here in the Chamber, but also in the broad section of the Chamber, or can you do it in a different way, so that you can give everyone the opportunity to leave early? According to the PvdA, a good proposal is to introduce a flexible AOW. The other day it was in the newspaper, the Financial Dagblad opened on the front page: that costs money! That's right. In our electoral programme, we are paying more than EUR 2 billion, including an increase in the AOW, so that you also have a good AOW in the long term to make that flexible AOW possible. Another study says it doesn't make much sense. If you do it neutrally, you won't. There's got to be money. It doesn't make much sense if you can just slide it back, as the VVD suggests for example. It says: we want a flexible AOW, then you may retire later and then you will get a higher amount. Of course, that doesn't help you if you want to quit work sooner. I ask the Secretary of State if she has also looked at these proposals, what she thinks of them and whether she is prepared to further develop them. I understand that such large proposals can no longer be transposed into legislation by a outgoing cabinet, but the thinking does not have to stand still. It is something that concerns people. It is really not right that people who can't actually do it anymore or who want to make a choice to quit earlier, because of the incomes they have, cannot stop working. We are missionary and I would also find it a good solution to do so, so through a flexible AOW where lower incomes get more money than high incomes. High incomes should provide for a higher discount from the AOW. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	This is an interesting proposal from a party that has been in government for five years. The AOW age goes to 67, supported by the Labour Party. If you're 67, you get €1,096 as a single person at the moment and if you're married or similar you get €757. So if those people do not retire at the age of 67 but do so when they are 65 or 64, can the PvdA give an indication of how much discount this will give in the plans on their AOW?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	For the lowest incomes we want to stop a year earlier to be about neutral. We want to increase the AOW generic by 4% and for a third, the group with the lowest incomes, the discount is 4.5%. So you can quit 11 months earlier with the same AOW height as today's. You can also see that in our bank transfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	So that means that if you quit two years earlier, the AOW benefit will be 10% lower than in case you don't. That is the proposal in the PvdA programme that is on the table. So the AOW of a single person gets $100 lower if you quit two years earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	No, it's a combined proposal. On the one hand, we raise the AOW by 4% for everyone, so it gets 4% higher than today's. If you stop a year earlier, it'll cost 4.5%. People with the lowest incomes can therefore quit eleven months earlier. They can quit at the age of 65 without costing them anything. From the higher incomes we ask for a little more. It'll be between five and eight months. So it is not the case that we want to reduce the AOW by 10%. That is by no means the case. You can see that too, because it's part of each other. That's why I'm saying it costs money. If you pay for everything yourself if you step out earlier, Mr. Omtzigt is right. That's why we're pulling over 2 billion to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	It would be good if the PvdA were honest about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	That's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	I don't blame you. I'm trying to get it completely. This means that two years earlier stopping working leads to an AOW that is 10% lower. The new amount will therefore be reduced to 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	Of the new amount that's higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, of the new amount that's higher. That was also the case in the election programme, so just 10% goes off. This brings you under the welfare standard for 65-plussers. There's not much in between, so you're gonna be under the welfare standard for 65-plussers if you quit work two years earlier. That's exactly the clamp. And the second thing the PvdA does is that it makes the AOW a lot of income dependent. It is fair that you say that, but making the AOW dependent on income is also quite a big step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u17	We're putting in money to stop working earlier by people with the lowest incomes, because we see that people can't do that right now. You can see that, too. It's not like we're getting below the welfare line. We're just making money to make it possible to stop earlier. That is exactly the whole package of proposals. You can read it, you have read it, and you have read it exactly how we came up with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u18	I have a question that follows on from Mr Omtzigt's question. I do not understand why the Labour Party has first supported the increase in the AOW age, including the acceleration, and suddenly she says that the AOW age should be reduced. That's $2 billion. Over the next four years, reducing the AOW age to 65 will cost over 3 billion. Why don't you do that instead of what you're proposing now, which costs almost the same amount and makes the AOW income dependent? In addition, you come with a discount below the net minimum wage. You're gonna have to add to that through welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u19	Keeping the AOW at 65 doesn't cost 2 billion. I believe that this has been widely measured in the election campaign. Your list leader has explained this in detail. I believe that we have settled that discussion. The PvdA believes that if you live longer, you can retire later. That's what Drees thought back then. But it must be feasible for everyone. I acknowledge, like you, that it is not possible for everyone to reach retirement age now. We want to do something about that and we are proposing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u20	I don't think your reference is correct. I have said that the calculation made by the Planning Bureau, which is also included in the annexes to the programme transfers, shows that reducing the AOW age from 67 years to 65 years costs about 3.5 billion. The 12 billion also discussed and discussed relates to 2060. That's 43 years from now. We'll talk. I'll talk about the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u21	And then people don't get an AOW anymore? Then it's gonna have to go back up? What kind of calculation is that? We all know that we're all getting older. We're all getting older. This will continue in the coming years, but 50PLUS says: we will put the retirement age at 65 years until 2020 and then we will see again; then it will not cost any more. That doesn't make any sense, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u22	No, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u23	Just take the cost for granted. The SP did. She has the cost of it. I think it will cost 12 billion in the end. You can also find some of that. You can ask the question how it will be affordable in the future...... but the SP has acknowledged that. We can now have that discussion again about whether it is cheaper, but I really thought that it had been settled and that Mr Krol had indicated the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u24	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u25	You have to listen to me carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u26	Mr Nijboer must listen carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u27	I say that reducing the age of AOW over the next four years costs 3.5 billion, not 12 billion, as has always been suggested and is still being suggested. That's not until 2060. We're talking about the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u28	But after that, there are also people who need to get AOW. That costs even more money, and that needs to be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u29	Apparently, future plans start in four years and you can stop thinking about the period after that. I really agree with Mr Nijboer on that point. Making the income dependent on the AOW, which is de facto in the plan of the Labour Party, I think the sum of Mr Omtzigt's sum is a basic choice. I don't choose that road, but I have a question about that. Are you sure you're gonna solve the real problems with that? Yesterday, Secretary of State Klijnsma of the Labour Party replied to questions from colleagues of the Socialist Party that people with heavy professions often have an income around the Modal. For that group, the Labour Party's plan does not seem to offer a solution, regardless of whether you are in favour or against it, because of the income dependence that I think you are talking about, Mr Nijboer. On the contrary, these people often have a supplementary pension, they have worked for a long time and, according to your own secretary of state, they have a moderate income on average. Then your plan wouldn't help that group, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u30	Yeah, of course I do. They also get a 4% higher AOW and they too can stop working earlier at a discount. The earlier cessation of work becomes dependent on our income, Mr Van Weyenberg is right. That's different than making the AOW dependent on income. Quitting work earlier is what we want to make dependent on income, precisely because high incomes now have the opportunity to stop earlier and the lower incomes are what you don't see in practice. We want to do something about that. We don't think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u31	But the experience is that because of these income-dependent discounts, you bring income dependency into a public insurance system. You can or don't want to. Mr Nijboer is clear on his proposal. In his opinion, affordability is better in his plans than in others because he actually gives extra opportunities to low-income people. He doesn't give those opportunities to people with a middle income or a higher income, while many people who have worked for so long have just such a modal income. So I ask the question again: is he helping the good people? Is he helping the people he's really trying to reach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u32	The lowest incomes can be at the biggest discount. We have three groups. The middle incomes can be at the average and the highest incomes have to contribute the most. There are just three groups made. I think that's fair. We therefore offer these opportunities. I don't understand D66's questions in this area. We do that for three years, but they do so for one year at the same rate as we do for the middle group. So that's where we don't differ. We only make it more attractive for the lowest incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u33	Very briefly finishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u34	That's right. We're not bringing that income dependency into it. From his conviction, Mr Nijboer proposes the effects for this group much greater than those from other plans. I say in all honesty that I don't see those effects. I think it is right that we should make that explicit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u35	I think it's clear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u36	As already announced, Mr Van Rooijen of the 50PLUS Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mr. Chairman. The Financial Dagblad headlined it two weeks ago: a flex-AOW is not a solution for heavy-duty professions. The AOW is a non-income-dependent public insurance for everyone. It is also the best practicable and most reliable scheme in the Dutch system. We hear about dramas at surcharges and pgbs, but the payout of the AOW is taken by the bank rock solid. Daan Kleinloog, the chairman of the AOW working group of the Royal Actuarial Society, has published a study showing that a person who wants to stop working a year earlier must accept a 5.4% discount on the AOW. Since the AOW is already at the minimum, a discount on the AOW directly leads to an income below the social minimum. This must therefore lead to a higher benefit, with all the financial consequences. This low-income group does not have sufficient supplementary pension to cover an AOW discount. A director will probably choose to stop three years earlier if he costs only 16% of the AOW benefit, but a street maker simply can't afford it. Kleinloog notes, like me, that things are getting terribly complicated. With regard to the implementation of a flexible AOW or heavy-duty professions-AOW, my party provides great dramas. First of all, we need to determine what is actually a difficult profession, and how we are going to monitor and comply with it. In addition, you also have to determine how long a person has had a hard job and you have to take into account changing personal relationships and situations. Mr Kleinloog says about this: the AOW benefit is now very simple to implement, but the question is what will remain of it if you start working on it. I agree with him. The good ones could suffer from the evil ones. A world in which employees do their utmost to get the check mark "heavy" behind their profession, reminds of the problems surrounding the self-employed declaration of the DBA Act. Such a world is no better than the present one. We're not in on that. 65 years is 65 years. It has already been pointed out by many, including the FNV, that it also hunts elderly people to the WIA, the WW and the assistance. FNV Chairman Han Busker also recently advocated freezing the AOW age. I repeat, therefore, that 65 years was fine, is and can remain for a very long time, but our government does not choose 65 years, nor 66 years, nor 67 years. Our government opts for a moving retirement age based on CBS models on life expectancy, which could make the retirement age 72 years by 2060. That means very simple: we'll leave you to it. to know when you might be able to retire. We find that inappropriate. People who are now 50 years old, or 40 years old, don't know when they'll ever get their pension. Finally, Mr President. We want to increase the AOW benefit by 2% in structural terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u38	I'll see you in three minutes. You've been practicing, I think! We are going to listen to Mr Van Weyenberg from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you see a very diffuse picture in the labour market. On the one hand, it's good to remember that here, we see that more and more people stay at work longer and healthy. I think that's a win. That was also something that we worked on long and wide in this Chamber at the end of the VRS and of certain pre-pension schemes. How do we ensure that people can reach that finish, knowing that people are longer healthy and also getting older? You can see that the employment rate of people aged between 60 and 65 is rising explosively. That's good news in itself, but it's not the whole story either. We see that people who lose their jobs are still not supported enough to get back to work. This is still one of the major problems in our labour market that we need to address. The other question is how to ensure that people, especially those in the heavy professions, can reach a healthy finish and that agreements are made about this in collective agreements. In this context, I am a little shocked when I see occasional calls, including from social partners, who actually seem to say: "We burden people so heavily in the workplace. They were burned up before retirement age. Government, do something about that." My question to employers and employees would be much more: what are you doing to make sure that you adjust the work? Fortunately, a lot happens there too. Recently the sewers were replaced in my street. Where people used to work physically hard, new devices were now all used. That sounds like profit to me. My colleague Van Eijs was recently at a company where people who build houses can do so in a much less burdensome way. That sounds like profit to me. But if, above all, from the social partners, this call comes to politics, then my question is: are we really going to accept it, social partners, that too large a group cannot work properly? My question to the Secretary of State is what her picture is: is this much more prominent in collective agreements? Because in response to questions from Mr Van Kent, among others, the Secretary of State said that the social partners are primarily concerned. Does she think the glove's gonna get picked up enough? What picture does she have of that? And, Mr President, very specifically, the flexible AOW age is also in my programme, in a slightly different form. A recent SEO study showed that this might not be the miracle solution that some of us were hoping for. What I found interesting is that it said that a lot of people actually prefer to take part-time pensions, but that a lot of people say that they want to do so while very few people actually do. My question to the Secretary of State is: what are the bottlenecks here, in collective agreements, but perhaps also in legislation? That so many people indicate that they want to do so and at the same time so few people use it, raises the question of where the shoe is pinching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u40	Then Mr Wiersma. Oh, we have another question from Mr Nijboer. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u41	I would like to ask Mr Van Weyenburg whether he is actually abandoning the flexible AOW that D66 included in the election programme with this story. It was only a year, you could record a year earlier; we have three years. You're getting off that now, aren't you? I hear that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u42	I must say, however, that when I read the report, an investigation was made by the cabinet, an investigation into how much it produced, I had hoped, quite frankly, that it would be more effective. With the fact that we do have as a precondition that people cannot, for example, get into assistance or benefit from social services, I have become less optimistic about this. I say this to my disappointment, because I still think this conceptually is a very good idea, not with income-dependent elements as proposed by the Labour Party. Only I thought it would help more people than that research did. So I do have extra questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u43	I find that regrettable, especially since the need to make it possible to stop working earlier... Because I always hear Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr D66 say: you have to work longer. If people can do that, it's good, but they should be able to choose to quit early, right? Why did D66 choose to do that only for a year, which is under pressure now, and five years back? That's not fair, is it? Why not go five years forward and five years backwards or two years forward and two years backwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u44	Because we had two conditions, Mr Nijboer knows that. I would also like to congratulate him on the fact that, after five years of government responsibility, the opposition role seems to be getting used to quickly. That is also his new role, but perhaps some people could also say: slightly easy The problem is, as Mr Nijboer knows, that if you push it too radically, that is just again very expensive. That's a choice, too. What Mr Nijboer is doing is no different to my programme for middle-income people; that is why I asked him the question. I actually thought that, although Mr Nijboer and I are conceptually close together, he also saw that, according to that SEO report, for those with an average modal income in a heavy occupation, to which the Secretary of State refers in her replies, perhaps the flexible AOW does not yet bring the complete solution we had hoped for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u45	Clear. Mr Nijboer, concluding, brief, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u46	I think the reason it costs money is because people work longer. D66 has promised the people flexible AOW, she even comes back a bit and it wasn't really that big a deal, because it was only a year...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u47	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u48	...and five years' delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr President, with all due respect. I know that the Labour Party also bears some responsibility. I was pleased that Mr Nijboer also said that we have been trying for a very long time to define heavy-duty professions, but that is simply not possible. So we also choose to stop earlier in the flexible AOW. If you stop a year earlier, the consequences for the middle incomes of the Labour Party's plan are exactly the same as for D66, but that research shows that this gives very few additional people the chance. To be honest, it would be a credit to Mr Nijboer if he were to think about what you can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u51	Yes, Mr President, I have another question to ask Mr Van Weyenberg about the leakage of revenues at the higher AOW age. The calculations we have received from the Secretary of State in reply to the questions we have asked show that the drop-out effects are already significant and higher than expected in the first year of the increase in 66. This cannot be quantified, but do you recognise that because older people are going to the WIA and assistance via the WW more and more, that leakage will mean a substantial reduction in the additional revenue calculated by the CPB in their models and assumptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u52	No, I don't recognize that. It has already been taken into account at that time that if you raise the AOW age, someone who unfortunately is disabled at 65, for example, is in the WIA for a year longer. I think that's always taken into account. I think Mr Van Rooijen is so defeatist here. Apparently, he's giving up that we can keep these people working. He finds the leak to the WIA to be kind of self-evident. To be honest, I think it is more our job to ensure that people can also work healthyly until they retire. I do not recognize the numbers, but the policy call I make to Mr Van Rooijen is: think with us; how can we ensure that people do not get there? Because that would, of course, be the worst possible outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u53	Let me make it clear that we are also in favour of people working longer if they want to. We're at 65 years old. I'll go into your first reaction first. By means of the leaking effect, this is the following. Of course, if you put it to 66 years, you'll be on that benefit a year longer. We are talking about people who, at 55 or 60 years of age, enter the disease law and then end up in the WIA or taking the other route, via the WW or the assistance. These facts are presented to us in the letters we have received, and you know them too, from the metal sector, the pension fund PME and so on. Those are hard facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u54	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u55	I think that's always been taken into account in calculations. But much more important is the following. Mr Van Rooijen asks me whether I agree with him that we should ensure that people can continue working rather than going to benefit schemes. I'd like to agree with him. However, he is linking this with a debate on the AOW age, but I would point out that I do not want to accept the practice in which some forms of work seem to be so burdensome that you are at 55. We should not accept that in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear D66 saying that they do not want to accept the fact that people cannot continue to work. But there is a very large group that simply doesn't make it physically anymore. I don't hear D66 suggest a solution for them. For improving working conditions with retroactive effect is impossible. So we have to come up with an arrangement for these people. We need to give them an opportunity to stop working earlier because they simply don't make it anymore. What does D66 have to offer them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u57	Well, Mr President, I think I have already asked very specifically what are the obstacles to part-time retirement, to name but a few. Mr. Van Kent wants to go back to 65. Indeed, he is very honest about this and puts EUR 12 billion in the books for that, but I really do choose another route. I would like to look at that together with Mr Van Kent. I hear unions almost take it for granted that people in some professions are worn out when they are 65. That is not my intention, and I assume that this is not Mr Van Kent's intention either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u58	The reality is that people in these heavy professions often started working at the age of 16. They have spent their entire working life doing physical work. After 40, 50 years of work, it's been really nice. I hear D66 say that the only solution D66 sees for this group is the possibility of taking part-time pensions. Mr Van Weyenberg, these people can no longer work, not even part-time. Again, what do you have to offer this group of people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u59	In any case, not the solution of the SP, with which we de facto reintroduce the FOUR and go back to the old system in which people are asked at 55 when they are going to stop and in which we write people off. That's not our solution. I share Mr Van Kent's concern: people are now being overburdened and we must do something about that. But for the solution where they are actually given up instead of keeping them working, I don't want to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u60	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u61	I have to conclude that D66 does not go beyond saying that D66 does not support the solution of the SP. That does not surprise me, to be honest, but I do not hear D66 here giving a start to solving these great problems of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u62	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u63	I believe that Mr Van Kent has heard me ask all sorts of questions about part-time retirement, about adjusting collective agreements. Those are all things we can do. That is not the solution of Mr Van Kent, who would prefer to pay 12 billion for that. I think it's writing people off. Mr Van Kent and I do not agree today, and that does not surprise either of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u64	I'm glad my D66 colleague recognizes the problems. Apparently, he does not agree with the solution of my colleague from the SP. I therefore ask him whether he will support my request that the obviously heavy professions which have been extensively documented and on which there should be no discussion be described as a clear heavy occupation, so that at least the people in these professions can be helped by an early retirement pension or an early retirement pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u65	I really agree with Mr Nijboer here. I don't see how we're gonna get that working. You end up in all kinds of debates: how long have people worked in certain sectors, what is a hard job? Being in front of the classroom is also a very difficult profession. I think it's gonna be endless. We've tried this for ten years. I supported your colleague's motion to make one last attempt to look at it. By the way, this applied to the entire Chamber. I think that the solution is really in other areas, such as collective agreements and part-time retirement. Our program contains the flexible AOW. I really think these are more promising routes than Mr Özdil's route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u66	Of course, this answer disappoints me, because the facts are as follows. It has been extensively studied that people become physically ill on average at 52 years of age in some physical occupations. In the professions of highly skilled people, this is on average 72 years old. If 18 countries around us can do it, if all the major organisations say it's easy and affordable, I don't understand why my D66 colleague wants to go into some kind of chicken-and-egg discussion and not do anything for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u67	Firstly, I have heard the Secretary of State say that despite all good intentions this has not been possible for ten years. I am shocked by what I hear Mr Özdil say: at 52, people are worn out. Then, apparently, the conclusion is that we make sure that people can stop earlier. I really think it's almost inappropriate to put you down to that. We're not gonna accept that, are we? The EIB (Economic Institute for Construction) proposes to make it possible to retire earlier if the influx into disability in a particular sector is twice as high. This is a kind of reward for bad behavior when people become sick and disabled. We're not gonna build a system like that, Mr. Özdil, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u68	Short, rounding, pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u69	I am happy with this answer, because at least this is fair. My D66 colleague says it's his own fault, thick hump when street makers, construction workers and window cleaners are worn out at 52. It's fair that he admits that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u70	Come on. This is truly unworthy of your level. I told you I'm not gonna accept it. You shouldn't. It doesn't suit you to put words like this in my mouth, Mr. Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u71	I give the floor to Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u72	Mr. Chairman. A car manufacturer in Germany has built a new assembly plant and in it a assembly hall specially designed for older workers, with better lighting, moving toolboxes, larger letters on computers, more crutches to sit on, robots for heavy and monotonous tasks, magnifying glasses in the work cabinets and a conveyor belt that runs a third slower than in other locations. A wonderful example of a company that sees its employees age on average. But not only that, it is also a wonderful example of a company that sees that the shortage of skilled technicians is important to him and wants to be for it. This company wants to retain the knowledge and skills of its older employees. That is what the VVD is about. Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that business is playing into this. That is exactly what we want to see more. We cannot close our eyes to the ageing society. We also want to keep the AOW affordable for future generations. Then we will have to work with the smaller group that has to raise it for longer. Fortunately, there is less and less discussion about this. But we also do not close our eyes to what this means for people, for example for people who have had a physical occupation for years. I understand their desire to be able to stop sooner, but, no matter how you turn it or turn it, if we divide the resources we have earlier and over a larger group, these people go through the minimum of existence. The alternative is to charge our children and grandchildren a higher bill. The VVD doesn't sign for that. Not for that high bill, but also, on principle, for putting aside valuable labour purely and solely on the basis of age. We companies have a duty to see what they can do after years of faithful service. It is important that both employers and employees look in time for less heavy work or for retraining for another job. The future of work I keep saying it is not a job for life but a life full of jobs. So you can't stand up for older workers by putting them behind the geraniums prematurely. We must not lose these people in the labour market. They are valuable and their knowledge and skills are desperately needed. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? I also agree with the questions put by Mr Van Weyenberg. Are social partners doing enough in that now? Which sectors are good examples of this? Can we show those examples any more? Can we light other companies with it? That should be the direction in this discussion. We must not allow it to get bogged down in a discussion to get people under the minimum income or to call on the treasury every time and pass the bill on to future generations. This is the only way to keep the AOW available and affordable for generations after ours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u73	One more question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u74	What perspective does the VVD offer to people who do not make it through their 67th year of work and who therefore want to stop working earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u75	It is tempting at this time, as we also see employers doing, to place the call of: government, solve the problem for me. The employer then does not assume his responsibility, whereas such an employee can do a lot more than just that profession. So it's also important if you look at what a person can do in time. Are you watching another part in time? Are you looking at less heavy work? Are you looking at retraining? Are you looking into your own production process to see if you really need this experienced power and are you willing to adapt your factory to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u76	But we're not all the same, are we? Some people...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u77	No, that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr Nijboer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u79	Some people are just worn out or mentally can't handle the work anymore. You can't say everyone's gonna make it, can you? That's closing your eyes to reality, isn't it? Surely that is not an eye for what is happening in society now when people are 62 and think: I can't make it anymore? And you're not offering anything. The VVD doesn't offer these people anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u80	That's not exactly what I'm saying. The group of people with a heavy occupation is, of course, difficult to define, but we all know people who have been doing hard work physically for a long time. That group doesn't need to be written off, to sit behind the geraniums and to hear that they couldn't do anything anymore. I think we're gonna help that group figure out what else anyone can do. Then you can do a lot. If we look at how we've done it so far, I'm saying we can do better. We have also recently seen calls from employers who, of course, have a hand in saying: government, do something about it, let those people retire sooner. No, these are people who really can't do certain jobs anymore. It is our job, and I think it is important to include you in it, to call on employers to offer them good new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u81	My colleague Wiersma is also assuming that it would be difficult to define what is a physically difficult profession. I'd love to help him out. Let me give you a few examples. The EIB has a clear workable definition. For example, a sector is considered to be heavy if the loss of disability is twice as high as average. Another definition concerns the top fifteen heavy-duty professions of the Labour Inspectorate. Harvard University and Tilburg University have clear workable definitions. There are already regulations for special professions, such as firefighters and soldiers who can stop earlier. So I will help Mr Wiersma out of the fire and ask him once again whether he will support my request to do something now at least for clearly heavy professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u82	I wasn't on fire, so I don't know if I should be helped out of that fire either, but thank you for these suggestions. I have also read that report and there is something to be said about it. The Secretary of State is right to do so in her letter, so I am sure he will say something about it later. It is important to note that in the thirteen countries mentioned in that report as countries that do so, employers also make a significant contribution to it. So that is different from what you are proposing here, namely that the government completely compensates for it. My appeal to the social partners is precisely to make sure that we do not write people off early and put them behind the geraniums; the latter may be easy but we need all those people very badly. Appreciate that and look for new possibilities instead of the short blow of: write off, you're done, have fun with it. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u83	I think my colleague Wiersma said earlier that it would be difficult to define. Now he comes up with a number of other topics. In view of his answer, I hope he agrees with me that that definition should not be difficult. About these geraniums: I think that's the reverse world. These people end up behind the proverbial geraniums because nothing is being arranged for them now. You're 52 years old, 50 years old or 60 years old devastated by all the physical hard work and then you end up in welfare if it's up to Mr. Wiersma. So also given the ideals he claims to pursue here, not behind the geraniums, I would like to say: support my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u84	I was just thinking what I should be supporting right now. The bottom line for me is that we do not go along with the call, and that choice is there, to adjust the AOW, but in such a way that you dive below the minimum of existence. We think it's quite a good thing that we have an AOW in the Netherlands for everyone; whether you've worked and how much or that you haven't worked, you get that AOW. There are a lot of other ways to think about how you're gonna fill out that pension. The discussion of these professions is complex. It is not for nothing, as a number of speakers have said, that the social partners are getting a bite out of it. I have also been involved in a pension agreement myself. So that's not so easy. The Secretary of State rightly says a number of things about this in her letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u85	Of course, we need to improve working conditions. I fully agree with Mr Wiersma on this. I am also counting on the support of the VVD when we put forward proposals to force employers to do so because they often do not do so voluntarily. What do we do with the group of people who have worked over the past decades and who are physically completely worn out? We cannot, with retroactive effect, offer them better working conditions. We must now offer a solution to this. What's the VVD's answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u86	I have two answers to that. The first answer is that the choice you make is quite decisive whether you, you too, and also children of yours in the future, get AOW. You make a choice to reduce the age of AOW to 65 in general and to set a very high account for the future. We don't make that choice. The second answer is that, fortunately, we are already seeing an increase in participation, that more and more people continue to work longer. That has risen in a very short time. That does not mean that this is not very difficult for some people, especially those who are older. That's very difficult, but if you say: "That's so difficult, forget it, we're not even looking at whether you can do anything at all but retire, we'll take care of it," then I think you're moving the bill to future generations and that you're not using all the knowledge and skills we have and those experienced powers that we need. I hope the SP will go along with that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u87	I wonder if Mr Wiersma remembers what question I had asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u88	Yeah, you asked me what I'm gonna do for that group. I say: it is therefore very important that this group should not be written off prematurely, that we should look at what people can do. This could be an employer, as in the example I mentioned, who redesignes his factory for that purpose, ensuring that knowledge and skills are preserved. It may also be that you look at other possibilities, such as retraining and retraining. This cabinet has realized training vouchers, realized a lifelong learning credit and had an ambassador for older people's unemployment. I can mention a lot of things where you will undoubtedly have critical notes, but a lot has happened to ensure that we help that group of people when they are not at work and when they are at work help to develop, by educating them so that they can take longer. We all benefit from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u89	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u90	I note that the only thing the VVD has to offer to those hardworking Dutch, who started at the age of 16, who have done perhaps 40 or 50 years of heavy physical work, is a one-way job towards disability benefit, pissing on all the possibilities of the body, or accepting that they have a lower pension for the rest of their lives because they have to take that much earlier. I think that is totally antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u91	I understand that one-liner and I note that you have not listened carefully to me for a long time. That's your right. We do not transfer that account to the future. We assume what people can do instead of what they can't. The employer has an important contribution to make. I hope the SP will support us in this in the coming years. I think a lot of employees think that I can do a lot of things. I'd like to use those employees. There are very good examples, including of social partners, of how we can do that. We should go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u92	Thank you. The last speaker from the Chamber is Mr Omtzigt of the CDA group. Then we shall suspend for a little less than fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a long and widely shared wish of the Chamber: to allow people with a heavy profession to stop working earlier. However, it is a matter of urgency and I have been sitting here for a long time since we entered into the EaP agreement, and I have not been able to define the concept of a "heavy profession" in the last ten years. The Economic Institute for Construction is now proposing to define the UWV categories where more than twice more than average disability is due to disability as a heavy occupation. It is very commendable that organisations are involved in finding a solution to the problem of defining heavy-duty professions, but this solution also shows how impossible it is to find a definition. Mr Van Rooijen already referred to it: we have never kept track of what anyone has done in the Netherlands since he was 16 or 20. So even if you were going to do it today, you would have to wait another 50 years to know exactly what work someone has done in those 50 years. In this respect, it is therefore not possible to get this operational. Very broad definitions are used, such as taxi and ambulance transport. Someone can do the transport themselves, but can also be the centerist of the taxi centre. This is a different exercise of the profession and may have a different heaviness than direct driving. So this is not a solution at the moment. What are we supposed to do? We must ensure that it is included in the collective agreements. To take away the black picture outlined here: the employment rate among people aged 55 to 65 has increased dramatically in the Netherlands in recent years. These measures are taken by employers. Where there was hardly any employment rate, for example in women between 60 and 65, it is now much higher. But it could be better. It is better to agree in collective agreements to ensure that people are retrained to less burdensome jobs rather than at 62 years old, but much earlier in your career. Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Van Weyenberg's question: is the Secretary of State prepared to take a serious look at part-time pensions with the social partners? That too is a long shared wish in the Chamber. We note that this has not actually been found anywhere. So, almost everyone still stops doing their job from one day to the next. What is it that hinders organizations? Is that the internal culture? Is that the nature of the job? Finally, Mr President. This is important for the social partners, but it is also important for the CDA. We therefore note that the pension plans do not include invalidity and survivors' pensions. For us, these are essential matters. The pension was created for people who were unfit for work or for the survivors of people who died in an accident at work. They're risks you can't bear as an individual. That is why I call on the social partners not to forget this important form of pensions when developing the new pension system. These pensions are at the top of the social benefits we have, namely a disability scheme and a general survivor's pension. For example, when you fall out, you don't volunteer to cover yourself enough, so you can keep making ends meet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr Omtzigt quite rightly interrupted me to ask what exactly were the PvdA's proposals. I am now asking Mr Omtzigt the same question. Of course, part-time pensions should be possible; that is what everyone thinks. And, of course, the working conditions must be improved; that is what everyone agrees. But what does the CDA offer to people who have worked for a long time and who can't stand it, whether they're teachers, nurses or construction workers, to retire early? What does Mr Omtzigt offer them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u95	We have agreed with the Labour Party an increase in the AOW age. In all honesty, we have not managed to indicate how to define those groups. In all these ten or twelve years, no one has put a list on the table or put forward an initiative legislative proposal. That didn't happen, not when there was a financial deficit, nor when there was money left. I am therefore also saying that we are unable to define this in the law. This means that we are focusing on the policy I have just indicated. Mr Özdil talks about people who fall at 52. With all the will of the world, with the solutions that have been given here today, for example by the Labour Party, to retire a year earlier and two years earlier with a 10% discount on your AOW pension, the gap between 52 and 65 years is not bridged. That is precisely why there are other solutions. I refer to the solution of a part-time pension. I mention the solution of maintaining, because we have a system of WW and disability if people really cannot work. Those are the ways we solve that. If a solution is put forward here for heavy-duty professions which have been kept up to date, then I am open to thinking about it. That is also why we supported the Voortman motion. And I will also support a new attempt to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr Omtzigt is already known as someone who knows very well all the social provisions, and indeed all the tax regulations. Heavy professions are tricky. That's what I reported. The PvdA has really made a proposal, including in the election programme. A flexible AOW in combination with a higher AOW, and therefore income-dependent AOW you can discuss it, you can have different views about it... offers a solution for anyone who wants to quit work around the age of 65 and doesn't want to go on for up to 67 years. I hear Mr Omtzigt, with all his knowledge, not making any actual proposal that meets that. That people retire at 52, that's not the problem. Problem is, people don't make it to the finish line. The CDA has no alternative to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u97	That's the problem. The problem isn't that people here and masse get the 65, and the 66 don't. The professions that are being discussed here are those that really need to be thought about whether people need to be retrained. So I think this is also an extension of the debate that is taking place here. I can simply honestly say to Mr Nijboer that at the moment you can bring your pension forward in many pension schemes to cover your AOW-hole. In itself, Mr Nijboer's proposal is not much different from that in the AOW. Then you don't have to do it in retirement anymore. But you get a discount, left or right. You can now get your pension in a number of schemes a little earlier. Then it fills the AOW-hole. In Mr Nijboer's proposal you let the AOW go down. The current proposal reduces pensions. But it doesn't create new possibilities, except that it complicates the AOW. And because it's only about one or two years, that's exactly what's being covered right now. Mr Nijboer, you can sell tubers for lemons, and I think that there has been a lot of thought, but this is not a solution to the problem that Mr Özdil has identified here. And if that were the case, that solution would have been put in place. I am, of course, looking forward with great interest to the counter-budget of the Labour Party on the budget that was tabled yesterday, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u98	I appreciate Mr Omtzigt's open mind. I'd like to help him out, too. We, as GroenLinks, of course wholeheartedly support this retraining. At least today, in my speech, I am talking about clearly heavy professions. So these are professions that are no longer and should be discussed. I'm gonna name them. This has been done, for example, through the EIB. There are other bodies that I have just mentioned, which have also done so. I call tile workers, concrete steel braids, plasterers, masons, painters, roofers, cleaners, ambulance workers and taxi drivers. Let us limit it to those obviously heavy-duty professions. You asked me for a clear definition. I'll give it to you through the EIB. Are you willing to at least for those professions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u99	Is Mr Omtzigt prepared?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u100	... define?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u101	There are two drawbacks. I just mentioned the first drawback. If you take the whole taxi business, you'll have everyone who works in it. It is not recorded as a taxi transport, it is recorded as a taxi and ambulance transport. It is kept as cleaning, as the entire painting company. The individual work is therefore not recorded. Mr Özdil is now suggesting this in his statements. We have not recorded who has braided concrete and who has kept records when. Now I'm gonna call you man and horse and tell you where the problem is. If it is done on the basis of the UWV categories, the person who kept the records may as well retire early as the person who braided concrete. That has not been included in the administration; so does Mr Özdil. Secondly, I have heard of categories from Mr Özdil, but I have not heard how he intends to finance this. Does this mean that Mr Özdil proposes that the people who have worked in these categories should be allowed to enter the AOW two years earlier? Maybe I should have asked him to do that by interrupting. Where is this financed from? I think that is an important part of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u102	I'm gonna help Mr. Omtzigt out of the fire again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u103	Fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u104	It's not my words. They're not my definitions. I'll say it again. The EIB defines a profession as heavy if the loss of disability is twice as high as average. You can say that does not cover every individual in such a sector. But if we are going to make policies in this way, there will never be any policy. There are always individuals, in every sector, in every field. To be honest, I find your argument to be a weak one. Funding has also been extensively studied. On average, this amounts to EUR 200 million per year on a pension budget of 38 billion. If you consider that people stop earlier and get sick less quickly at a later age and you count the savings on care costs, it is win-win for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u105	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u106	A. We haven't kept track of where everyone's worked for the past 50 years. We haven't kept track of the work history in the Netherlands until 1998. We don't know about the period before that. B. the categories are wider than Mr Özdil mentioned here. The category is "cleaning', "painting' or "taxi and ambulance transport'. The category is not "concrete braids." That is the essence of what Mr Özdil wants to solve in between. He says, for those people, it's from 65. But he also says: from the age of 52 you can't practice the profession. So the solution he's offering doesn't fit the problem he's sketching. Although I appreciate that he is doing so, he must acknowledge that the solution does not correspond to the problem outlined. That is also the reason why both left-wing and right-wing cabinets have failed to do so and that we have not had a single legislative initiative in this area for 12 years, while everyone in the Chamber would like this to be dealt with, and that there is no proposal from the ESC or from the STAR or from any of the social partners to resolve it. Yes, there is. No, it's not operational in the Dutch circumstances. Yes, there is a difference with abroad, where part of the account is deposited together with the employer and the employee throughout the career in order to be able to stop working earlier. Neither do we in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u107	Clear. I'll suspend for 15 minutes. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State and her answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u108	I call the Secretary of State. I note that we have had a lot of interruptions so far, so we are going to be brief now. I hope that the Secretary of State will also confine himself to the subject of today's 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u109	Mr. Chairman. Thank you and thank you to the members of your Chamber who have contributed. It's a subject that matters enormously. Let me just start with that. For all Dutch people, the AOW is of course a very big good and an essential thing. We have to note that this is not from today or yesterday, but it has been the case for quite some time now that people who have been trained low and have indeed worked hard have more difficulty living healthy and long than people who have been highly educated and often worked shorter, because they have spent longer studies. I do not think there is any difference of opinion at all in that regard. I also think it is very important that the entire House of Representatives reconsider this. This will have to remain the case in the coming years. Today's topic is early retirement for heavy-duty professions. The CDA member Ommzigt said so. Of course, it is not from today or yesterday that we are thinking about how to label people who have physically very heavy work, perhaps psychologically also very heavy work, in such a way that we can let them get to their retirement age a little earlier or much earlier. In 2009 I was Secretary of State for the first time. At the time, the crisis was raised, but there was no mention in any election programme of the extension of the AOW age, the increase in the AOW age. D66 wasn't very strong about it either. We did say at that time, with Mr Piet Hein Donner of the CDA on Social Affairs: something must be done about the increase in the age of AOW, because we see that the average Dutchman is fortunately getting much older than at the time of Drees, when the AOW was introduced. A couple of parties want to keep the AOW entitled age at 65 years, but I think that it is also quite broad that it is obvious to raise the AOW-right age because everyone is getting so much older and because there are many fewer people who can pay the premium for the AOW than at the time of Drees. I do not think we need to talk about this this afternoon. The point of attention remains how you deal with the people who are sometimes almost literally walking on their gums. Like the members of the Chamber, I have received many letters on this subject. I've spoken to a lot of people, too. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks has tabled a motion calling on me to talk to the social partners again to get the heavy professions labelled. I've done that again. The social partners are not at all confused about this either. They want to, but they just don't get it done. We have noted that you should not focus on that. But what's it gonna be like? That is what I like about today's debate. Now let's see what we can do to help these people. Mr. Chairman. There's someone at the Interrupt Microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes, but I actually wanted you to finish your introduction. Shall we do that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u111	Fine. Thank you. Take a look at the professionals. The FNV has drawn up a ten point plan in the context of the AOW. That does not include the word "heavy profession." The FNV has added an eleventh point. It's about sustainable employability. I think, Mr President, that we should all look at how we can further shape that and give it substance. In recent years we have been busy with this. There are some nice examples of 'generational pacts', 'part-time' pensions', but that can really be done on our own, if not a pound better. I am also very much in the process of helping the social partners and ensuring that they bring that much more into their collective bargaining tables, because that is where it belongs, of course. This sustainable employability is something we must really want with all of us. That's what I'm so anxious to share with your room. I can't rule over my grave, Mr. Chairman, you understand. I am really in the dark, but until the day I leave, I will continue to tambourize that employers and employees together must ensure that everyone can grow old in health, but also everyone. Then I come to a point that Mr Omtzigt has also raised. If you label sectors on the basis that disability would be more important or on the basis of other criteria, then you have to deal with the fact that we have only been keeping track of where people have worked since 1998. Then you have to deal with the fact that there are all kinds of different types of work in these sectors. And then you also have to deal with the fact that one can also be psychically severely caught in a profession, when you have not labeled those professions. So, Mr President, once again, I am looking at the one who ran to the interrupting microphone and has also requested this debate, for very good reasons, namely sustainable employability, which we really must go for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u112	A word about the failure of the implementation of the Voortman motion. My question to the Secretary of State was whether she would at least like to give more information and explain how this consultation failed. Does it want to tell us in particular about which professions consensus has been reached? My question is: are you prepared to accept my request?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u113	Yes. Look, that meeting was held in spring. The social partners have come to the conclusion, for the same reasons I have just mentioned. This has also led them to raise the phenomenon of heavy appeal neither in the negotiations with the Department of Social Affairs nor in the interaction between themselves. They just see that's not the panacea. Mr Özdil also made a comment on foreign affairs. Mr Özdil said that in 18 countries the heavy profession is partly labelled. That's true, but it does happen in part. This heavy occupation is very often resolved by the employers, and this is of course happening here in the Netherlands, because employers are happy here too, although it may be a pound more enthusiastic, as I said, to get people with a heavy occupation further out of the wind. It is really not the case that in Europe there is a country that has specifically labelled all the heavy professions and is opposed to them by the public authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u114	The latter is not what I claim here either. I was interested in the Voortman motion. It's an enlightening question. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, no consensus was reached in that consultation with the social partners on the Voortman motion for a resolution on any profession. Is that what the Secretary of State says?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u115	Yes. We have said to each other: this is not the way to go. I thought it appropriate to agree with the social partners last Friday on the letter I sent to your Chamber, and they also said: this is what we agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u116	Finally. That was not entirely my question, whether or not it is the right way forward. Your brief letter did not state which professions were or were not consensual in that consultation. So that is the essential question that I once again put to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u117	The point of attention is of course: can you label professional groups at all? That's the point of attention. We talked about that very specifically, and really not just in the spring, you know. We've done that in the past few years. We did that in 2009. We did it very intensively in 2009, also with the coalition partners ChristenUnion and CDA. We really tried, because we really wanted to. Let me just say that honestly. I really wanted to. I really wanted me to be able to say to some people in the Netherlands: it's all so complicated for you guys, we're all trying to give you some relief; employers first and if the government can do something, we'll help. Again, that really needs to be further developed. I started it, and it's gonna have to go through with it. Mr. Chairman. I'll see what else I got. I think it would be helpful if I stopped by all the spokesmen for a moment, because that is the quickest thing to do. I have answered Mr Özdil's questions, I think. Mr Van Kent is asking for an investigation into stopping the RVU levy. That investigation should, of course, be brought before the Tax Administration. That is what I am referring to, Mr Van Kent. But I have to say that, of course, the RVU tax is only relevant if employers want to retiring people improperly, if I may put it that way. When it comes to a generation pact or otherwise, of course the RVU levy is not on the table. That is why I call for as many generational pacts as possible to be concluded, because where it has already been done, they really offer solace. I really think it's for all generations to write about home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u118	Does the Secretary of State think it is a good idea to investigate the abolition of the RVU levy, or whether it is full or for certain income groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u119	Well, I think that at the collective bargaining tables, proper agreements should be made. In the long run, you won't have to have the RVU tax. So I don't know if an investigation adds that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u120	Of course, it could give a picture. We don't know exactly how much it costs to do that, especially if you would do that for certain income groups. It might help to help social partners to make arrangements of this kind or to allow people of a certain age to benefit from early retirement schemes in the event of dismissal, for example in the case of blast furnaces. In this sense, it could provide interesting information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u121	This is kind of hard for me. Point one: it's really something from the IRS. And point two: I'm here to be a missionary. My adage is and will continue to be that I think it is very important that employers and employees make good arrangements and that people, when they have grown older, are not put aside by their employer because they would no longer be so employable. So in that respect, it seems very clear to me. I come to Mr Nijboer. It is clear that I know the electoral programme of the Labour Party! The flexibility around the AOW is of course very worthwhile. That's why we have the SEO study and see what it gets. It is, of course, hidden in the womb of the future whether a new cabinet would like to go through with it, yes than no. Okay, I'm gonna stick with that now. I think I have also said enough about Mr Van Rooijen's contribution. 50PLUS wants to keep 65 65, but until 2021. Of course, we saw a rather sad story during the election campaign. Because if you wanted to go through with the resources made available by 50PLUS, then the average AOW'er would really get worse. I don't think that's a good idea. The SP does this in a more robust and robust way. So I'm not one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u122	We are not holding an election debate right now, but a debate in the Chamber on this important dossier. I would like to point out to the Secretary of State, talking about budgetary amounts, the following. Let me give you an example. The tax review has cost 5 billion, but few jobs have been created. The labour discount, for which a number of parties have fought, has now cost €3,300 and €18 billion. A saving in AOW expenditure of more than 3 billion for the next four years is certainly modest. You have to see everything in proportion. D66 wants 3 billion for education. Maybe we'll get to that later. That party has also demanded billions for education in the past. Education is a good thing in itself, by the way. Everything you need to see in context. In the end, these are political choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u123	Well, that's a truth like a cow, I might add. Fortunately, 50PLUS considers education also important. That's good. However, if you do not put sufficient resources under your election programme, even for the longer term, you will still send retired people home with army hands after 2021. And I certainly hope that in 2021 there will also be AOW beneficiaries. That's why I don't think this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mr President, I have another supplement. Facts and figures. The Secretary of State also said that there will soon be fewer people to pay the AOW for the growing group. I should also like to point out that the effective AOW contribution for the workers is not 18%, but because of the extremely high tax reductions 5% to 10%. In the Senate, I also discussed this in detail. There is €2,200 tax discount in general and €3,300 labour discount. About that €5,500 is not paid 18%, making it effective 5% to 10%. So if that were different and if you did not deduct those tax rebates, the AOW would also be much more affordable by the workers with higher premiums. That's a choice, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u125	That's right. These are indeed all political choices. But that does not alter the fact that we are in agreement with each other on the transfer of electoral programmes. And I think that's a good idea, too. The fact remains that if you want to bring the AOW back to 65 years for all of us, it costs 12 billion. It's that simple and I won't make it prettier. Next, Mr Van Rooijen is quite right to say that the choice to cover that 12 billion from something else, or not, is a political choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u126	Short, concluding, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u127	Will the Secretary of State acknowledge that it's 12 billion by 2060 in 43 years? Are you sure you want to add that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u128	The passing on of election programs is always long-term. And that is a great good thing, because of course it would be very strange if we were to just write an election programme for a forthcoming cabinet. You don't even know how long a cabinet stays in, I'd like to add. Right? Look, this cabinet I'm in right now has been in for almost a year or six months than we originally planned. If you're short your election program for six months, that's a point of attention. Right? I come to Mr Van Weyenberg's contribution. He has said very firmly that it is important that social partners in their collective agreements should ensure that people can continue to work healthyly for longer. I agree with him, because people also want to be able to benefit from part-time pensions. You see what that brings, for those people, but also for society as a whole. I therefore continue to call on the social partners to do so. And luckily with me, it's pretty much the whole room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u129	I've asked two more specific questions. One was whether it was the image of the Secretary of State that this was done sufficiently. She has actually said herself: more than a pound has to be added. My second question was whether the Secretary of State has an idea of why the part-time pension, which, according to the Ministry's investigation, many people say they would like to make use of it, is so little used in practice. Colleagues have already asked whether this has anything to do with culture in a company and whether there may be legal obstacles. Can the Secretary of State say a little more about why something that many people want to say is so difficult in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u130	It is very good that we are highlighting this here. I have a strong impression, and more than that, that it's also because of communication. There's a lot going on right now. I think there are a lot of people who barely know that. I therefore believe that this needs to be made crystal clear within the companies and that HR people should share this much more often with colleagues. In fact, I think that could be quite a relief. The legislation does not really need to be adapted. It's really about seeing what's possible right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u131	I was indeed on my way to ask whether it is in difficulties, for example, in legislation and regulations, on the pension side or otherwise. However, it is really something that can be done in a company with the existing rules. So it really is a question of a cultural change there. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u132	Fortunately, you already see more and more people when they come to age, start to work a little less and do other things in life. We can do that now. That is why I think that these generational pacts are so great, and that is why I think that this is so great, because it allows people to work just a little less, they can train younger colleagues and keep their working conditions. So they're gonna keep building up their pension. I find that very pleasant, because otherwise you will have a lower pension after your retirement age. That is not the issue of the generation pact. I think that is a good instrument. Then, last but not least, Mr Wiersma. In fact, he has also made a warm plea for companies to continue to support skilled technicians in such a way that they are not at a much too young age at the end of their Latin. That just remains the adage; we all agree on that. Let us therefore ensure that the social partners take much more care of this in their collective agreements. It won't be me. I am now at the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u133	But not at the end of your Latin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u134	Not at all, Mr. Chairman. I do intend to continue working until my AOW-right age.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u135	That has been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u136	The way it looks right now, I have to go on for 67 years and three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u137	We will support you. So much for the first term. I see that there is a need for a second term. I call Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her clear but unsatisfactory answer to my questions. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Voortman motion for a resolution on a proposal for a definition of physically difficult professions (34550-XV, No. 68) was adopted unanimously;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State in her letter of 20 September 2017 says that the motion cannot be implemented because after consultation with the social partners, in its own words "in terms of a definition of "heavy professions', the egg of Columbus has not been discovered";]] [[noting that the letter in question lacks both a detailed description and an explanation;]] [[calls on the Government to send within two weeks a letter to the Court explaining in detail the failure of the conciliation procedure on the implementation of the Voortman motion, explaining in any case which professions have achieved consensus,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-379]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u139	Thank you, Mr President, for the compliment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the unanimous assent of the Chamber to the motion for a resolution;]] [[Whereas 18 other European Member States have already succeeded in defining a heavy occupation by law;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the EIB has also succeeded in defining heavy-duty professions;]] [[noting that this group of people feels greatly abandoned because there is still no solution for them;]] [[Considers that it is very evident in a number of professions that they are considered to be heavy;]] [[calls on the (new) government to define at least a number of clearly heavy professions and to come up with a solution for this group,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özdil and Mr Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-380]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u140	It's necessary. That's not at your own risk, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u141	I call Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard the Secretary of State say that the RVU tax might be discussed with the Tax Administration. I am therefore tabling a motion calling on the government to do so. I assume that this will then end up with the right person and that we will get a response if the motion is adopted. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the consequences of abolishing the RVU scheme for workers wishing to retire up to five years early;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the impact of the partial abolition of the RVU scheme on workers with an income of up to twice the modality who wish to retire up to five years early,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent, Mr Özdil and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-381]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u143	Then I come to bringing the AOW age back to 65 years. As has been mentioned before, the SP has duly substantiated how this can be paid, even in length of days. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to reduce the AOW age to 65,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-382]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u144	I can tell by the time I run out of room for a final word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u145	But we're still thinking about you. I call Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the possibility or actually the impossibility for some groups to leave earlier. Some parties recognise that this is a problem. The VVD's running away a little bit. I've heard D66 and the CDA admit it's a problem. The PvdA has put forward a solution. I very much look forward to the solution that the CDA and D66 can find in the formation for that, because that has not become quite clear to me today. I therefore have a motion which I know will not be adopted. So I'm holding that motion until the new government arrives. But I think it is good that the flexible AOW remains on the agenda, especially until the CDA, D66, the Christian Union and the VVD come up with a better alternative. I'm gonna read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u147	Just a moment, because I think we have a state-law novel. You're now filing a motion that you're already saying you're going to arrest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u148	It happens all the time, Mr. Chairman. That's not the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u149	It's not said before, but usually they already know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u150	No, it's sometimes said. I've done this before. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the age at which people retire continues to vary and that, above all, highly educated people have the opportunity to quit work earlier;]] [[believes that everyone should be assured that you can stop working sooner;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up proposals for a flexible AOW and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32043-383]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u151	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u152	At the request of Mr Nijboer, I propose his motion (3243), No. 383). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u153	That would save an additional 30 members' debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u154	Whew! We're gonna get away with it again today. You have the floor, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u155	Mr. Chairman. I heard the Secretary of State speak about the FNV's eleven-point plan. I still want to ask her to respond to the following. FNV chairman Han Busker recently said, very recently, "People are not prepared, it's like you've been training for a marathon and at the moment the finish comes in sight they're putting the finish 10 kilometers away." Those are crystal clear words from him and I have just said that he advocated a freeze on the AOW age. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u156	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 waives his term and Mr Wiersma does likewise. Mr Omtzigt will speak. He's the last speaker of the Chamber. Then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Secretary of State for the clear statement. I am very curious to see whether the social partners and we will also take on the part-time pension. The CDA Group is fully prepared to remove obstacles if they exist on the legislative side. I note that we are having a debate here, which must be held within a week, which ends in a motion asking us to find out again why the previous motion did not lead to a list when we have been looking for it for 12 years. The CDA Group is ready to speak at any time in the coming years when colleagues come up with a solution. I note, however, that no solutions have been found in this debate. No lists have been proposed and the solution of the Labour Party means that you may allow the AOW to enter earlier and that it will be lower. And with the pension funds, you can start your pension early. That's gonna be lower. And you can fill the AOW hole. So people can now opt for a lower pension that they're getting earlier. They could retire sooner, but that would cost them 10% of their pension. The PvdA wants this to be done through the AOW. Nice, but this doesn't solve the problem we have right now. I hope that next time problems are raised, solutions will be found. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u158	Thank you. Secretary of State, have the five motions arrived at your office? I see that this is the case. Then the Secretary of State will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u159	Mr. Chairman. Again thanks to the members of your Chamber for a second term in staccato with five motions. In the motion in part No. 379 of GroenLinks and the Labour Party are requested to send a letter explaining the failure of the consultation. The consultation didn't fail. The consultation is very constructive, but one thing has emerged as a clear conclusion, namely that heavy professions cannot be labelled. I can write letters about that again, but I wrote a letter to the Chamber about what came out of the consultation. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Voortman, but also Mr Özdil, for having once again inspired us to discuss this issue with the social partners, because this makes it even more urgent for the social partners to use the other instruments. I may be sitting here for a few more weeks, but I call on your Chamber once again to abstract from the phenomenon of 'heavy occupation', because it is almost impossible to really cut this with scissors. That is sad, because I would have liked to say this again. But we haven't tarred in the last few decades. So it's really impossible. Try to focus on that this can be done fortunately we have an arsenal of instruments so that people can grow old in a pleasant way. It is also a thorn in my eye that there are such great differences in this. The motion in part No. 379, I must therefore advise against it. You will not be surprised that this also applies to the motion in part No. 380. I really can't send my successor out with the same message or assignment. I did not say for nothing that the Van Kent motion in part No. 381 really belongs in another committee and that it is not appropriate at this time, as far as I am concerned. So I'm gonna advise against that motion. In the Van Kent/Van Rooijen motion to item No. 382 the government is asked to reduce the AOW age to 65 years. I think it is obvious that I am also dissuading that motion, because I did not just say for nothing that I also like the fact that so many Dutch people are getting older, and that we can work together for a little longer. The Dutch who need help should be able to get that help. That brings me to the Nijboer/Gijs van Dijk motion in part No. 383, which is already under arrest. I do not know exactly if I should find anything of it, but let me say the following: the outgoing government considers this in itself a sympathetic motion. Of course, it is not bad in itself to investigate whether such a flexible AOW could lead to anything, but I know that I will not carry out this motion anymore. That's what my successor will have to do. I therefore welcome the motion, but I do not think it will be put to the vote if it is arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u160	Is that your resignationary opinion on a restrained motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u161	Yeah, that's right. It's special, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rooijen asked me what I think of Mr Busker's statement on the freezing of the AOW age. I think that's a bit of a question about the familiar road. I think that if we all get so much older, we can work a little longer. But Mr Busker has not written down in his eleven-point plan a number of other, very commendable things for nothing. I sincerely hope that the social partners will continue to do so, with the support of your Chamber. Mr Omtzigt, who has already left, has once again backed up on the part-time pension. That's what I'm doing to him. I think it is very pleasant that he, from the CDA Group, will continue to think about the legislation and regulations in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. It's been a real pleasure. Again: how important is it that everyone can just grow old in a healthy way in our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u162	Thank you. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her presence today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-4.u163	On Tuesday we shall vote on the four motions for resolutions. After the suspension we continue with a long arrangement of work.
