ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. About 400,000 children in the Netherlands need extra attention. For the vast majority of children this is the case, because they grow up in poverty. This proved again from the study Children in Tel 2016 published yesterday over the period between 2013 and 2015. That is why it is very good that we have provided 100 million in structural funds to combat poverty, especially among children. Because this image hurts every time it comes along. Every child should be able to participate in school, school trips, sports or music lessons. It is so important for children that their talents can be maximised, also to prevent poverty from passing from generation to generation. That's the big job we all have. Every child or family in poverty is one too many for us. That's why I keep calling attention to this every time. I have two questions for the Secretary of State at the moment. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the administrative arrangements with the VNG are such that the structural extra 100 million for the children actually go to those children? Municipalities should not be able to spend that money on other things. Can the Secretary of State again bring a minimum package of child packages to the attention of all municipalities? Because some municipalities are doing very well, but there are still far too many municipalities that do not have a good child package in their policies. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to present all good examples and also the guidelines for a good child package very actively and to bring them to the attention of the municipalities. My second question concerns the social teams and the district teams. There are excellent people who come close to the families and the neighbourhoods. They are actually in the capillaries of a neighborhood and can very well picture where the problems are. Can the Secretary of State ask whether it is possible for these district teams and social teams to be put as a priority that they achieve children in poverty well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Yücel for these questions, because it is a very important point that children in the Netherlands sometimes have to grow up in families with very little money. We all agree, of course, that every child should be able to participate. Now that things are getting better with the Netherlands, the cabinet has said that it wants to make structural use of 100 million for these children. I have made good arrangements with the municipalities and with five funds that are very involved in this issue of attention, so that the children get stuff in kind. By which I mean that children can indeed participate at the sports club, celebrate their birthday, get on a school trip or get a laptop if necessary. In short, children must not be excluded. Mrs Yücel asks me again if I would like to tell congregations that they really have to tell them in the capillaries, as Mrs Yücel calls it, very close to the families, that all this is going on and that children can get all this stuff. I'll keep doing that. Really. This week I have once again discussed with the VNG and the five funds, because I believe that the child packages, which Mrs Yücel is calling attention to, belong in every municipality. There are already a lot of municipalities that handle the child package, but there are also municipalities that still do not. The municipal councils have to tambourize on that too. But I, too, am going to report to the VNG this week that extra efforts should be made. Then I'll get to the last of it. It is not only that we make funds available to the municipalities, but also for the five funds: the Youth Sports Fund, the Youth Culture Fund, the National Children's Aid Fund, Stichting Leergeld and the Stichting Jarige Job. We also have 4 million per year to support national and above-regional parties and projects. So we're working hard for the kids. With Princess Day we have also shown what we do for the families. People with a very low income and with benefits will also receive additional purchasing power support on the basis of that 1.1 billion. We are doing everything we can to tackle poverty, because, once again, as our country is improving, this must apply to all Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to bring to the attention of all the municipalities how such a good child package can take shape to ensure that all children can participate. I also understand the Secretary of State in such a way that she would like to draw attention to the role that district teams and social teams can play in this regard. I am also pleased to hear that the Secretary of State is talking to the Minister of Education about the 18-plussers in the family in order to encourage them to finish their school and not find a job to make ends meet at the end of the month. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actively disseminate the good examples among the municipalities? Some municipalities are doing very well and I believe that municipalities can learn from each other. Is the Secretary of State prepared to actively bring these good examples to the attention of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u4	To start with the latter: Divosa, the supporter of all social services in the Netherlands, has a model child package. I'll bring that to your attention. On 6 March, I said, in my mind, a meeting with the 35 central municipalities from the labour market regions. Again, I will strongly promote these child packages, but the municipalities are already doing a lot about them. Again, the municipal councils are also on the move. It is a good thing that this afternoon attention is being paid to this in the Chamber so that the members of the municipal councils know that they can appeal to their lectures on the fight against child poverty. Finally, the question about 18-plussers. Of course, I can easily say that 18-plussers are not part of the child package. Next Friday I will be speaking with the Minister of Education and a number of aldermen about this problem, because of course there are also 18-plussers who need additional support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u5	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for getting back to work on this. Of course, I am also in conversation with organisations that are active locally, whether it is Humanitas or the food banks or the Foundation Leergeld or municipalities. Then it turns out that many schools and teachers in those schools do not always know that these facilities exist. The Labour Party has previously tabled a motion on this matter which has been adopted by the Chamber. It calls on the government to actively draw attention to the fact that these items can be supplied to children who otherwise do not have access to them. There is an excellent view of children who grow up in poverty. Can the Secretary of State shortly inform the Chamber in writing about the state of implementation of the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u6	Schools are indeed an excellent place to find and teachers have a lot of knowledge of things. Last Friday I was at a school in Balkbrug near Ommen. I have seen with my own eyes how teachers support the children and have them provided with child packages. In short, Mrs Yücel has an important point to address when she talks about schools. Moreover, the Youth and Family Centres are also essential in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u7	While listening to Mrs. Yücel and the Secretary of State, I had a déjà vu. We hear this every time; it's like a broadcast for a political party. We all think it is important that children should be helped in poverty and that they should really be helped structuralally and with good results to prevent them from being constantly stuck in poverty. However, it is always said: are you going to talk again, and always the answer is: yes, I am going to talk again. Fine! This time, however, I would like the Secretary of State not only to talk but also to work on it, not only on the good examples, but also on finding out the deeper cause that still causes many children to live in poverty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u8	Of course, it is so, and D66 strongly supports it, that we have agreed that the implementation of poverty policy is placed with municipalities. This means that our city council members should not only question the lectures of B and W, but also check them. We have already sent the municipalities two times 100 million in structural terms to ensure that there are means to further develop poverty policies. The first 100 million was not tagged; the second 100 million was tagged. So the second 100 million really has to end up with the children. Municipal councils should also be very vigilant. I find in practice that a lot of municipal councils not only come up with motions, but also otherwise really pay attention or that happens. I would like to express my appreciation to the authors of the report, because of course we have to denounce every time how the children in the Netherlands are doing. You can see that poverty among children was still very much on the agenda in 2015. Because things are getting better with the country now and more people are finding work, the SCP also says that the prospects on that point are better, but every child who can't participate is just one too many. So I insist that we make funds available to the Empire, the House of Representatives and the Cabinet and that we ensure that the infrastructure is well up-to-date. So now there is also the hand-out to the municipalities, so that they, together with the funds, can properly implement this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u9	Again, this report shows that poverty is growing structurally. The number of people on welfare benefits has increased and also the number of children living in poverty. It is now clear that incomes are too low. What we see is a terrible thing, namely that segregation and division is growing, even within the same neighborhood. One child can just play sports, go out with his boyfriends and celebrate his birthday, while the other child in the same neighborhood can't do all that. If the Secretary of State would like to do the little bit she can do well, would she be willing to impose at least one child package on all the municipalities and facilitate it so that all children can participate socially? What does the Secretary of State think of what we saw yesterday in Nieuwsuur, namely that more and more people work in the Netherlands but still are poor?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mrs Karabulut asks me if I want to impose on municipalities that they implement a child package. There are already more than 200 municipalities that have child packages and they do so entirely by themselves. Other municipalities, of course, also have policies to combat child poverty. I think it's a great thing that there are child packages. That is why I continue to promote that these child packages are an excellent tool. So I will continue to do so, but I am not going to impose it by law, because that is what Mrs Karabulut means, I assume, because the policy freedom of municipalities is at stake, except that the money that is being given is really to be spent on children in kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u11	And the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u12	The second question is about working poor. There are also children who grow up in a family of working poor. These children, as well as children in a family with welfare benefits, can benefit from this 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u13	The last cabinet period has only increased the number of children living in poverty. I don't hear the Secretary of State about that. She says we give 100 million. The cause of the problem lies precisely in the division that this cabinet policy has only strengthened. The position of low-income workers has been looked at, but people in a benefit situation have not improved. And if it's the VVD's fault, they're even worse off. I'd like to hear from this Secretary of State what she's doing to lift that division. She helps the parents and also the children of parents who depend on a benefit. Is she gonna cancel the consideration? Is she gonna get rid of all the crazy rules that keep people on welfare instead of helping them out? The municipalities are only really waiting for that kind of freedom of policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mrs. Voortman has a point. In the first years of this cabinet, poverty has really increased. Mrs Voortman also knows that this was the result of the great economic crisis. The report we are discussing this afternoon is about the years to 2015. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau says that for 2016 and probably also for 2017 the situation is fortunately tilting. I say it carefully, but those are the projections. So where we are all doing better, these families too are moving in the right direction. The division has not increased in any way throughout the cabinet period. I will do everything I can to meet that division in a way that will reduce it. That is why the 100 million is structural and there are purchasing power repairs. Mrs Voortman's last question was whether we could make it easier for people to get back on their feet from assistance. Can we then ensure that there is tailor-made assistance and not just a stick behind the door? Here's what I'm saying. Article 18 of the Participation Act is widely applied by many aldermen in our country. That's a big good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u15	Of course, we support the approach of division in society. In recent years, money has been made available for certain objectives in many policy areas, such as nursing care or education, but this money has moved elsewhere. That's why we're still talking about problems in nursing care and education. Shouldn't the lesson of these four years be, for the Secretary of State in this position or for her successor, that tackling child poverty is more important than the policy freedom of municipalities? We're too much behind the facts. It'll take too long for everyone to participate. Should policy freedom not be allowed to place an objective, in this case in the area of child poverty, at the centre of attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u16	Mr Monasch, of course, has a state-law phenomenon in mind here, namely the question of what exactly you want. Do you want decentralised tasks to be invested with the municipalities, which are very close to citizens and can therefore really look behind the front door? Mr Monasch knows that I am very sorry. Edoch, in the face of such an incredibly important problem as children and poverty, you have to ensure from this house and from the cabinet that the funds that are made available every year, 100 million, are structurally well anchored in the municipalities, in the neighbourhoods and in the families. That's why I like to fight for this money to be labelled money. This money comes in a specific decentralisation allowance and therefore does not come in the general distribution towards municipalities. As far as I am concerned, this is happening for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
