ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport, the members of the Chamber, the people in the public gallery and those who may be looking at this debate in a different way. This 30-member debate on the workload of carers has been requested by Mrs Agema of the Freedom Party. I'll give her the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Sorry I came in late, Mr. Chairman. We had a fire drill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	I got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. How sad is it when something starting out of love, caring for a neighbor, ends up in hell. This is how life must feel when a caregiver is so overwhelmed that he or she is contemplating suicide. In addition to a lot of care volunteers, our country now has about 4 million carers. They help or take care of a neighbor. For the dismantling of care for the elderly by the Rutte II cabinet, half a million of them had already been asked to be overwhelmed. After the havoc, 80% of the people who cause a dementia say it's too much. So, one in twenty even suggests that we consider suicide. That is shocking and also unworthy of a welfare state. One would think that in the letter he sent to the Chamber on the occasion of this debate, the Secretary of State would repent for the dismantling of the nursing homes, for the almost complete cessation of the daily spending of home-dwelling dementias, for the structural denial that the deduction rule means material compulsory household care or for the fact that he saddles carers with about three hours of administration per week on top of all the care they give. But no, he points to action plans, a platform, a guide to be made, a workbook, a development agenda, all kinds of initiatives, integrated policies and he mainly points to the municipalities. I quote: "The Wmo obliges municipalities not only to actively support, appreciate and engage in dialogue not only with aid seekers, but also with carers and care volunteers. [...] The aim is to enable carers to provide care in their own way and without obligation." He even calls it a condition to avoid overload. Even after the colossal loss of nearly 30 seats for his party in the last election, he remains unwavering in his sneaky mantras that he sends to the world, as if there was no deduction rule and therefore no compulsory care. But why would the Secretary of State care? As a reward, he's gonna be a hospital director after all. Moreover, I wonder what he would do in his new job if he were to be given a half bag of money from Minister Bergkamp or Keijzer for his hospital and then the new minister held him responsible for the misery that would inevitably result from it. It is also cowardly to refer to municipalities when they employ children from 5 years old as caregivers and lose court cases because they take unauthorized domestic help. Does the Secretary of State really think that these same municipalities are now starting to work for carers? Rutte II's policy was primarily aimed at shifting as much professional care as possible to carers. That was a deliberate choice. It was deliberate government policy. This policy could not have been achieved without the budget support of GroenLinks, D66, the Christian Union and the SGP. Now it's time to reverse this. Professional hands need to take care of carers at the right time, so before carers become overloaded, or worse, think of suicide. The cabinet has been punished for the havoc it caused. We need to find our way back now. Stop the deduction rule, not mandatory care, stop funding the nursing home places, double the budget for home help, get back the 55,000 redundant care workers and bring back the seven steps of care for the elderly in one hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Mantle care is heavy as hell. Almost 40% of people living with dementia suffer from severe depression. One in six carers indicates that they are overloaded or even heavily overloaded. The cuts in family care have made it even more difficult. As many as 60% of the carers feel financial pressure from the cuts. For the government there is more than just a facilitating role. Privatisation and market forces have ensured that the main focus of care is on profit maximization. This is at the expense not only of the patient, but also of the carers, who are now feeling enormous pressure on their shoulders from far too much care and lack of support from professional care. In the letter of Parliament, the Secretary of State writes about a number of action programmes with good intentions to facilitate social recognition and support for the no less than 4 million carers. Especially strikingly much talk, evaluation, more talk and Mantelzorg Awards are handed out. The few concrete measures to improve the financial situation of the carers are far from reversing the cuts in family care. The focus for the government is on the facilitating role, the free market can solve it. Why doesn't the cabinet take up its responsibilities, especially now that the market forces in care have dismantled care? The household allowance, the big discount on the AOW if a pensioner goes to live with his or her children and is cared for by them, will be deleted, according to the Spring Note. However, the household allowance remains in force for people on welfare benefits who are going to live with their child. The Animal Party wants the household allowance to be abolished as a whole, for everyone. Why didn't the cabinet choose that? Coating and work are still difficult to combine. In addition, it is a bureaucratic, energy-slurping mill to arrange everything with the municipality: the Wmo, the pgb's, any offsets with benefits and exemption from the application obligation. What is the government's position on a pilot with a basic income for carers? This will wipe a huge amount of bureaucracy off the table in one go, which will save the government itself a lot of costs. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Freud said it: love and work, that's all there is. Carers combine love and work, give their time and love voluntarily to their neighbors. The Animal Party believes that they deserve all the support they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. If you're at the doctor's and the diagnosis of Alzheimer's, ALS, brain injury or fill you in, then your world collapses. All the attention is there at such a time for the patient, of course. We should, but let us not forget the caregiver at that time and in the period that follows. A young woman who, after a brain surgery of her husband, was confronted with non-congenital brain injury, put it as follows. "Now I'm a caretaker, but what exactly is that? I felt like I was swimming." There's the grief, but there's also the care maze where you have to find your way. At a time like this, you need someone to take you by the hand and show you the way, someone you can talk to about your questions and doubts: do I do well enough? Carers are invaluable. Let us therefore take good care of them. There's still a lot to improve. Many carers of dementia suffer from depression. One in six carers feels heavily or even overloaded. Fortunately, there is the case manager dementia, who excellently guides people with dementia and their caregivers. This afternoon we are still discussing this in a general discussion, but now we have this question: how can only 20% of people with dementia be reached by their case manager? How do we ensure that people with dementia and their caregivers are already informed of case management support at the time of diagnosis, as agreed in the Care Standard Dementia? Today I would also like to draw attention to the support of carers of people with ALS or non-congenital brain injury, a brain tumor or fill in. Who's their case manager? How can we reduce the stress on these, often relatively young carers? I ask the Secretary of State to talk to Mezzo and patient organisations about organising their support. The Christian Union wants to make the combination of work and family care easier. As a society, we are increasingly asking for caregivers and employers. That is why I ask the Secretary of State to investigate the creation of a household care fund in which employers can charge the excessive cost of family leave to the government. I'd like to get a reaction to that. There is also good news: the household allowance is off the table, at least for people with an AOW. However, people with limited AOW and supplementary income provision (AIO) fall between shore and ship. Does the Secretary of State wish to make an effort not to apply the cost-sharing standard to elderly people with an AIO? You choose volunteering, but caring happens to you. Let us take good care of care for all carers, because in their concerns that is the best thing that can happen to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	I see Mrs Agema is trying to interrupt. Before I give her the opportunity to do so, I would like to say that we are doing interrupting in two. Since we still have enough time for this debate, it is not necessary at the moment to limit the number of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	The words were beautiful, involved and also a few proposals from Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. But wasn't it the Christian Union that in 2012 took the initiative to the Kunduz agreement that led to the closure of the nursing homes and that about 60,000 demented elderly people couldn't get a place in a nursing home anymore? And wasn't it the Christian Union who concluded the autumn agreement in 2015 for the following year, with which she supported a huge cut in daily spending on dementia? It's really weird that you've come up with cheap proposals now, when you've cut billions, which has given these people so much concern? That is simply caused by the cuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Christian Union has taken action at the moment the PVV ran away. At that time we made proposals which we thought were good for the country. Some of these proposals are concerned. How can we keep it affordable? How can we organise care properly if people want to live longer at home? Those are the questions we got to work on. At the time we saw it had to be different, we sent it in and added money. I'm not gonna defend this anymore. We are having a debate here today on the position of carers. I think that there is still much to be done to improve care support, not only for the dementia group, but also for other groups. I'm counting on the PVV's support if I get there, if need be, who knows, the Secretary of State will come forward with a fine commitment if there's a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mrs Dik-Faber, of course, has nothing but the concept of 'walking away'. Maybe she should think about something like "keep her back straight and don't break the care." The situation of carers has deteriorated dramatically due to the choices made by the Christian Union. If the Christian Union had not come up with the initiative for the Kunduz agreement, 60,000 elderly people would have had a place in a nursing home and not a billion or something in that direction would have been cut back on daily spending. That amount was about the cuts and not about the 5 or 10 million that the Christian Union came up with as an investment. No, on balance, a billion went down; 1.1 billion went down. People are nowhere to go, carers are overburdened, and that is primarily the fault of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	I haven't really heard a question, but you're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'd like to respond to this. We have seen since the 1980s that people stay home longer. You can find all kinds of things, but that development is going on. People also want to stay home longer. If people want to go to a nursing home because they need intensive care, it should also be possible. These two lines have been discussed continuously in the debate in recent years. This raises the question of how to provide maximum support for people in their home care, including support for carers and day-care. At the initiative of the Christian Union, additional funds were made available for this purpose. And it's about how you can make sure that people who really need intensive care get a place in a nursing home. The Christian Union has always said that indicators should not push people back. People who need heavy care should get a place in a nursing home. We have often talked about this in recent years. We are talking today about the position of carers. Again, the Christian Union wants to do everything in its power to support carers. We have put forward three proposals for this: the family care fund, the removal of the cost-sharing standard and case management for all carers, not just for carers of dementia patients. I'm counting on the Secretary of State's promise. If he doesn't give it, I'll file motions. Who knows how the PVV will vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Where would we be without all those people providing care? About one in four Dutch people care for someone in their immediate vicinity, for longer or shorter periods of time. The value of these carers is enormous, not only in the financial sense, a few years ago, it was calculated that they were worth more than 6.5 billion, but certainly in an intangible sense. With good care, we want to fit in as closely as possible with the wishes of people who need care. We owe it to all those carers that they can combine the care they provide with the rest of their lives and that they do not succumb under their care, as is often the case now. Good support for carers is indispensable. Without resilient caregivers, we're all even further away from home. Then we increase the problems of people and society. We then create new complaints and we pull people away from the labour market, because they can no longer combine care and work. On paper, the situation doesn't even look so bad. It is intended that carers are well involved in a kitchen table discussion about caring for their neighbors. Family carers can also receive support and are entitled to family carers' replacement, but it often runs smoothly in the implementation. Unfortunately, municipalities often do not explicitly invite carers to a kitchen table meeting. Does the Secretary of State share the view that the active involvement of carers is indispensable for the establishment of good and appropriate care? Can he encourage municipalities to take a more active invitation policy for carers with regard to the kitchen tables? I'd like to get a reaction to that. In addition, recent research has shown that far from all carers are aware that they are entitled to support and family care replacement or recess care. We can be surprised at this in The Hague, but it comes down to the simple fact that many carers do not see themselves as carers at all. They just do what they're supposed to do, they think themselves. The Secretary of State, like myself and the fellow spokesmen, knows plenty of examples of people who take care but do not consider themselves to be a caregiver, despite the fact that sometimes they can hardly handle the care. If we want to go to care that is future-proof, where carers do not suffer from stress and get physical complaints and where they can also continue to work alongside care, then we will have to make this large group of Dutch people aware of everything they are entitled to. That is why GroenLinks would like a broad awareness campaign, aimed at all those people who provide care in the Netherlands and who are entitled to all kinds of support but simply do not know it yet. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about family care today. In my opinion, Mrs Dik-Faber was quite apt to say that family care is not something you necessarily choose, such as volunteering. It's often something that happens to you. Where would we be without the carers we have in the Netherlands? I think it's $4 million. If you see what has happened over the past few years, the nursing homes are closed, people live longer at home and at the same time there is a lot of cuts in household care and in the daily use of food, you can think that this naturally leads to extra pressure on people who are close to the people who start to demente and need care, so to extra pressure on our caregivers. The SP is therefore deeply concerned about the reports recently published following research by the VU: 40% of the people providing care are depressed and in one in twenty this leads to suicidal thoughts. That's shocking. And this knowledge is fed to the SP fraction almost every day with messages from people who are just desperate. And I am sure that we are not the only group that receives these messages. People are desperate; it often comes down to that. People are dying to take care of their neighbors. That's not the problem. But people have the idea that they can sit up against the ceiling of them all the time. We hear very often that carers, for example, are bound to home. They don't dare to leave the door anymore, because their husband or wife might turn on the gas or go on a walk and things go wrong. If that kind of thing and that kind of question is haunting your mind all the time, of course, it's gonna put a lot of pressure on you. In addition, we see that it is very different for each municipality how our important carers are supported. The SP is keen to bring that into this debate, because we think that is a problem. There are municipalities that take it well and do it in a good way. But unfortunately we also get messages, e-mails and phone calls from people who say they feel alone, that they feel desperate and that they don't know where to look for it. And that is often in the municipalities where it is apparently less well organized. Then we hear, for example, that in a municipality the carers are invited once a year to the town hall to have a piece of cake. That's what they call a "coat care compliment." So we do not think that is adequate support for our carers. That is why we are proposing today to extend the Public Health Act and the municipal package to include care support. In this way, family care is no longer dependent on whether the municipal administration considers active support for carers to be important. We want this support to be properly arranged in all municipalities as a right of people to whom they are entitled. That is what we are proposing today. In addition, a number of political groups have already spoken about the household allowance. The SP wholeheartedly supports those who have already said in this debate that it is extremely happy that the cost of care is part of the table. However, as far as the recipients of assistance are concerned, we absolutely believe that this fine should also be cancelled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	I understand that Mrs Marijnissen says that sometimes care does not end up with the carers. She's proposing to come up with a law amendment. However, I ask myself the following question. We agreed with each other in the Wmo that municipalities are responsible for supporting the carers. Now research shows that carers very often do not know the way to the municipalities, but also that municipalities do not proactively let out what they all offer to support. Does Mrs Marijnissen agree with D66 that it would be good to invest in this rather than in a legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	The answer to that question is yes. It is incredibly good to invest in that. We should definitely do that. However, one does not have to rule out the other. That has to do with the sense of urgency. What Mrs Bergkamp says is true. That's what I meant when I said that one municipality picks this up more appropriately than the other. But let me mention the figures again: 40% of carers are depressed and 1 in 20 even have suicidal thoughts. For us this is so urgent. I say this with all due respect for the commitment of municipalities, which undoubtedly mean it very often, but the result is that in many cases things are not going well. And then what do you do? Are we going to try again to carry out an awareness campaign? That is, of course, a good thing, and we are not saying that we should not do that. We have to do that most of all. But we are also concerned that these carers are guaranteed support. They must have in mind that they have the right to support. Because now it happens that people come knocking at a city counter and get to hear that they have to figure it out themselves, but can come and eat cake once a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	Of course I agree with that. Eating cake once a year is not the support of the caregiver. But we have already arranged a lot of things in the Netherlands. For example, the combination of care and work is regulated. But we see in practice that not every employer is flexible. That causes a lot of stress on the caregiver. We can see that in the range of health insurance companies. Grace care, for example, is often offered, but it is not used. The same applies to the offer of the municipalities. That is why I ask you once again: shall we first try to make every effort to use what we now have to do, instead of making another rule and other legislation? I'd be sorry to put our efforts into the latter now. I'd rather put everything we've organised together properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	Yes, again, I agree with everything that can improve access to care support. Let us do this tomorrow, and let us do what is not working now, more appropriately and more effectively. However, we must think seriously about how this can be done. You'll only just be working with an employer who's not as flexible as you are to give you the room for care. You will only just live in a municipality where you have to go to a dozen different counters, you really don't know where to look for it anymore and where the daily spending and household care have also been deleted. This is also very different from municipality to municipality. This leads to some kind of legal inequality, because it depends very much on the municipality in which you live which care support you get at all, whether you get household care or not. That's a bad thing. We want to reduce this inequality of law. That doesn't have to be so complicated. A change in the law sounds complicated by definition, but care support is relatively small. You could arrange this through a simple extension of the municipal basic package. As a result, people are given the right, and municipalities, to properly regulate this support. Then it is not dependent on the arbitrariness of municipalities. This would enable us to reduce legal inequalities a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	I have a question along the lines of Mrs Bergkamp's question. Mrs Marijnissen and I find each other in the fact that the position and support of the caregiver are very important. Can it indicate the added value of this in addition to everything that has already been arranged? I agree with her that the way forward can be improved and should also be improved so that carers can find it all. But what will an addition to the Public Health Act substantially change the situation we now know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	I expect two things to change in concrete terms. I have already mentioned the first in the discussion with Mrs Bergkamp: reducing legal inequality. Now it is simply regulated differently in one municipality than in the other and people are not entitled to that support. The second is that we are responding to the urgency that this problem deserves. When we discuss these figures in the Chamber, 40% of people feel depressed and 1 in 20 even tends to think about suicide. After this debate, we cannot say that we are going to try again to improve access and organize an awareness campaign. We all have to do the same, but these figures are so urgent that they ask for a serious answer from the Chamber and from politics. Those people are often desperate and it leads to depression. What would it mean if those carers were to disappear? I have already mentioned, for example, the savings in household care. It is known that the SP has always opposed this, but the VVD has implemented this. This decision has led to an enormous increase in pressure on the people around them. I think that we, and Mrs Hermans too, should take responsibility for taking good care of those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Once again, support for carers is also at the top of our list. The VVD believes in customization and believes that municipalities should have the space to implement this in their own way. This is lost in Mrs Marijnissen's proposal. The feeling creeps me that now we are supposed to be able to solve this whole problem by drafting laws and regulations. I think it's really in the awareness. There can be a lot and there is a lot possible. Research also shows that 75% of people who combine care and work experience understanding and come to solutions when discussing this with their employer. I am concerned that we have arranged everything on paper when we seek the solution in laws and regulations, but that nothing changes in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	I hope and expect that a great deal will change in practice. I turn around: if we do not do this and continue to believe in awareness-raising campaigns and improving access only again, I am not saying that we should not do that, we certainly must do so, and we do not see the urgency of the problem here. Nor do I agree with Mrs Hermans that you would force municipalities to do it in a certain way. I don't think so. I also believe in customization. I think we can do that, too, if we were to implement this proposal. It's just that municipalities have to do it. How they do that is up to the municipalities. That can be good customisation, absolutely, but we do regulate the right of people to support care and therefore also the duty of municipalities to regulate this. As far as I am concerned, the way they do this can be customised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	I have listened carefully to Mrs Marijnissen, but I still have a point to make. We've already done so well in the Social Support Act. There was so much attention to this point and so much sense of urgency. We had to take care of it. The analysis is always that municipalities do not make enough progress, and what does Mrs Marijnissen now say? Let's make a new law. That doesn't really help, does it, looking at where things are going wrong now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	I don't think I'm saying, let's make a new law. I'll tell you what. Expand the city base package. Mr Van der Staaij says that it is already so well arranged, but I wonder if that is true. Of course I have also checked the Wmo 2015 and Mrs Agema has just literally quoted it. There is, indeed, on paper what municipalities should do, but we are discussing today because we have seen an investigation that shows that one in twenty carers is suffering from suicidal tendencies. Then Mr Van der Staaij cannot insist that we have all organized together so well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen that the paper of that law is not yet sufficiently fulfilled in reality. But then the answer can't be: new paper? Then we have to look at how to get that reality in line with what we have already regulated so beautifully in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij that paper is not the solution. However, I think that the right to support is the solution, because that is simply lacking and therefore you maintain a situation where there is arbitrariness among municipalities. I have just mentioned the example of the municipality where care support consists of an annual invitation to come and eat cake at the town hall. You can just do that, within the current Wmo 2015. This is the current situation. The question is what we are doing about it. We can cry out to each other today and say: how bad is this, the municipality really needs to do better. We can also get a stick behind the door for the carers. That's what it is. This gives them the right, what they now lack, to that good support. That is the most important aspect of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. You often do it unconsciously: taking care of a family member, good neighbour or dear friend actually feels like something self-evident. You just do that. It says something about who we are. We look back at each other. That is something to cherish and to be proud of, but that cherishing also creates a responsibility, because although most of the carers get a lot of satisfaction from the work, it can also be very heavy for someone who is very close to you. Heavy, because it's emotionally hard to watch someone suffer or become more forgetful. Heavy, because it demands a lot of you physically, because you get older because you combine care with a job or care for your own family. Then I'm not even talking about the paperwork that comes with it. The VVD sees this responsibility as a task to continue to work to strengthen the position of the care provider, in order to continue to improve the assistance and support of carers. We do not see the solution in the form of extra money or a generic scheme to combine work and care, for example. The VVD believes that the possibilities are already there. It is about awareness of what is there and what can be done, for example when combining care with a job. We need to keep doing that. Five out of six carers do that. Only about 50% of these people tell their employer that care is also provided. Once they have told us this, 75% of them experience understanding on the part of the employer and they come to good agreements. So there's still a lot of profit to be made there. It is therefore good that the Work & Mantelzorg program is continued, now under the name Next Step. My question to the Secretary of State is: will he continue to inform the House of Representatives about the effects of this programme? In order to maintain care for as long as possible, you sometimes need to take some time for yourself and be able to pass on care to others. Grace care can then be a solution. Mezzo's research shows that the need for grace care is high, but that its actual use is lagging behind. People don't know enough or how to handle it. It is therefore important that local authorities, as well as health professionals, provide care providers with proper information about this. Can the Secretary of State pay particular attention to this in the Progress Report Wmo? Can he comment on the actions that are taking place in this area and their impact?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	I hear Mrs Hermans rightly say that many carers do not yet know how to find this retirement care and that it is a task of municipalities to inform carers about it properly. Does Mrs Hermans agree with me that it starts with the fact that carers see themselves as carers and that they are aware that they can claim retirement care? Does she agree with me that the first step is to make this very large group of Dutch people aware that he is entitled to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	Of course, that's what I started with. You often do it unconsciously. Taking care of a family member or a good friend comes from an intrinsic motivation. It happens to you and you just do it because you think it's normal. In order to get help or to be supported, you must first realize that you are a caregiver. So when I talk about awareness, it is absolutely also about awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	That's good to hear. Does Mrs Hermans agree with me that it is also a task of the Empire to ensure that all these people know that they are entitled to good support and to respite care? Of course, it is also absolutely a task for the municipalities to offer this actively once they have the caregivers in mind. However, a very large group of carers is not yet in sight and we must reach them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	It does start at a local level. If the person receiving care has a kitchen table interview, in which care professionals are present, the caregiver can be informed of all the possibilities that are available to him or her. You're talking about raising awareness from The Hague. Yeah, we have a job, too. We also have a role, for example, in the debate we are having today, in which we all value carers. Whether or not it should really take the form of a separate campaign, as you announced in your contribution, I wonder. Is this not another instrument, a big programme, that ignores all those things that can already be and that there are? That is what we need to work on in a very targeted way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	You continue your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	I have one more question for the Secretary of State on respite. I'm getting some signals that arranging respite care on the basis of the Wlz is more complicated and that providers take a lot of time and that carers therefore have to wait a long time. Does the Secretary of State recognize this bottleneck? If so, does he see opportunities to do something about it? We in The Hague too have a responsibility in raising awareness. I was just talking to Mrs Ellemeet about it. This means that we regularly talk and debate about it here, but above all that we continue to care for carers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr. Chairman. I think everyone's hoping a neighbor will take care of you and be ready for you when something happens to you. That care for one another, care for the family, is incredibly valuable, but it can sometimes be very difficult. Think about taking care of someone with dementia. When the carers go home at 7:00 p.m., the evening shift starts for the carers. It's 24/7. We can see that the pressure on carers is increasing. 40% indicates having depressive symptoms. 5% indicates suicidal tendencies. As far as the CDA is concerned, it cannot be the case that people who take care of another from intrinsic values will perish. It shows that this valuable strength in care is particularly vulnerable. In the Secretary of State's letter we read about expert sessions, a campaign for the position of carers and programs that are written to offer handles to municipalities. Well-meaning, but is it also well-meaning, is the goal being achieved? Is the pressure on carers really getting lightened? And what about the position of carers in the care process? At the heart of the matter is the fact that the account of recent health care reforms which have been introduced at a rapid pace with major cuts largely falls to the care provider. Just like what is a problem with one's own contribution to care, carers are also concerned with a build-up of care that is now coming to them. Only a little less help in the household or one part less daily spending is not the problem. The CDA considers that this group is not sufficiently represented by municipalities and health insurers and that there is insufficient consideration of the total. There is often less and less help for the household and less daily spending and less neighbourhood nursing. That all ends up with the same person. Does the Secretary of State see this? It's very simple for the CDA. Carers must be able to keep up the concern and an annual token of appreciation is nice, but this pressure on carers is not solved with a bunch of flowers or a conversation group. There will need to be concrete support to keep carers breathing. The CDA wants carers to have a formal position at the kitchen table. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? The CDA doesn't think it's secure yet. Furthermore, greater clarity is needed on the access and affordability of grace care. Does the Secretary of State also see that the offer has declined in recent years? This is precisely what should ensure that this breathing break is for carers. It is our duty to prevent carers from sinking through them. They are invaluable now and in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	We shall now proceed to Mr Kuzu, who speaks on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. There should be a sense of community in society, a society in which I do not rule the filthiness and the fatness, but solidarity among myself. The example of this solidarity is the carers, because people who take responsibility to take care of their loved ones show the sacrifice and empathy that are so much needed at this time of far-reaching individualisation and fleeting whatsapp culture. But taking that social responsibility as a caregiver is not always a thankful task. For some time now we have been seeing, reading and hearing that carers are overburdened, having problems and not getting the appropriate support they need. Instead of offering an outstretched hand, the government withdraws its hands from society in the context of participatory society. Tasks are thrown over the fence of the municipalities. Of course, DENK agrees that we encourage people to stay at home and that we see what people can do for each other, but we shouldn't go crazy about that. The figures have just been mentioned. 5% of people caring for a partner with dementia are considering suicide. Suicide in a rich country like the Netherlands. And almost 40% of that same group of people are depressed. One in six of the total number of carers in our country indicates that they are overburdened. It's a social disgrace. We therefore call on the Cabinet to do everything in its power to support the 2 million carers in our country and not to want a participatory society but a social society. Quite a lot has to be done for that. In any case, I would ask the Secretary of State not to give any answers if 'the municipality is on the move' or 'there is a need for tailor-made work', because as far as we are concerned, it really goes off. There's got to be something more going on. For example, no more young people who need to provide care. Think of the Udense model. At present, young people are counted by the municipality in the case of healthcare indications. We ask the cabinet to set out the example of Uden nationwide. Secondly, improve the provision of information. 40% of the people in the country do not have the WMO window and 302 out of 388 municipalities provide outdated, incomplete or incorrect information on the coverage of carers in relation to liability insurance. DENK asks the government how it will improve this information in a broad sense. Thirdly, ensure better leave arrangements. The reason why carers get overloaded is because they have to do too much side by side. We are therefore also asking the government how it thinks about the possibility of extending paid leave considerably for carers. As far as DENK is concerned, this is what we have to do. Not a participatory society, but a social society, in which we do not throw everything over the fence to the municipalities, but we as a government, as a country also assume a responsibility. Then we can start by excluding young people from care with a care indication, better care, better information and extending leave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias speaking on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. We have heard the figures a number of times, but 50PLUS is also shocked that about 5% of carers with a dementing partner are walking around with suicidal thoughts. One in seven Dutch carers indicates that they feel overloaded. That overload could have serious consequences. The provision of care should never be underestimated and fortunately this House does not. This is particularly important when it comes to caring for people with mental illness, such as dementia, which is gradually getting worse over time. You really need to be able to handle dementia very well. You must have a lot of love, a lot of understanding and, above all, a lot of patience. Then you also have to accept that your loving care is sometimes answered with a gray and a snap, but that's part of that disease. It is especially very difficult when it comes to your partner, with whom you have shared love and suffering and who will slowly but surely see you disappear under your eyes. A caretaker takes care of day and night, 24/7. So no wonder that overload is so high. In addition, carers of demented people are often also older themselves and have to deal with ailments. Nor is the combination of family care and work a sinecure. This means that support for carers becomes more important. It cannot always be left to the different policy choices of the municipalities, otherwise you will get legal inequality. I do not know if it is necessary to make a new law, but I do think that we should make the frameworks much clearer from here. It shouldn't matter which city you live in. For example, we can see that a number of municipalities are making a lot of savings on well-being and that as a result day-to-day spending falls between shore and ship. Day-to-day spending is one of the most important pillars of family support. We'd like a response from the Secretary of State on this. The Secretary of State must also initiate further measures for accommodation within reasonable distance and respite care. A number of questions have already been asked about this. Shots between the systems shall not constitute an obstacle to this. Although the group of caregivers who care for dementias is large, carers for people with disabilities face the same problems. In addition, there are young people who are forced to provide care. They also deserve attention and support. We are pleased that the care allowance for AOW workers has been dropped, but this measure does not apply to the others. 50PLUS thinks that this care allowance should be dropped for everyone. Is the Secretary of State prepared to discuss this with his colleague from Social Affairs? Finally. I have a few points to make, but I have to make my speech a little bit shorter. It is important for all carers to remove the cause of depression, the overload. The Empire plays an important role in this, because the Empire has made the municipalities responsible for care support. We believe that these frameworks really need to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has 4 million carers, 610,000 of whom do so for more than three months and therefore more than eight hours a day. Being a caretaker. We've heard that before today. More and more carers feel overloaded and some even suffer from depressed complaints. That's worrying. Fortunately, the Secretary of State, like D66, recognises the importance of recognition for this group and their problems. I thought Mrs Sazias just put it very nicely. It is not only about things that are offered, but it is also very difficult to deal with when your partner suddenly suffers from dementia. That's a lot to ask of you. I also think this is important, but I have not heard that in the other contributions. I think it is right that she should emphasise this. The Chamber sometimes tends to lose itself in instruments and systems. The fact that you are a caregiver and see that your partner or close friend is deteriorating is psychologically also heavy and, when I look at the research of the VU, is also the reason that people have depressive complaints. Fortunately, the group of carers is increasingly in the spotlight. There is a need for exchanges of experience. The Congress In for Mantelzorg was fully booked twice in a row. Apparently, there's a lot of need for exchange. Are there any more of these kind of conferences coming? I also welcome the increase in the number of recognitions of care-friendly personnel policies. How can we encourage more employers to take that step? So there's good news, but there's still a lot to be done. We can also read that in the letter from the Secretary of State when it comes to developing the offer of support. Mr Van der Staaij rightly pointed that out: there is already a great deal, but how do we ensure that it is put into practice? The use of respite care is left behind, and the organisation of customisation remains a focus of attention. And when I read the Secretary of State's letter, the letter goes on and on. What is the Secretary of State going to do in concrete terms to solve some of these bottlenecks, in consultation with the municipalities? In addition, the administrative burden drives carers crazy. Bureaucracy, regulatory pressure, give it a term. In addition to the intensive care they voluntarily give, the rules and administrative burdens really frustrate all carers. I'm getting a lot of reactions to that. What can the Secretary of State do about it? We've discussed this topic before. Is it an idea that very simple teams once go through the whole process of the caregiver to make visible and transparent what they run into in order to reduce the regulatory burden? When it comes to the role of the municipality, there are very good examples. For example, the municipality of Meppel has a household care platform. What other municipalities have that? How can we encourage more exchange of best practices? How can we ensure that things are exchanged proactively? Finally, I would like to draw attention to the young caregiver. Fortunately, there is more attention to this, but the young caregiver is still involved in the process of indicating. I know that Mrs Agema has made a point of this in the past. I'm getting reports that this is still unsolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	Does Mrs Bergkamp agree with me that care should go from informal to professional hands at the right time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	Indeed, I think it is very important that formal care be used in time. We have also had the discussion in the Chamber about the fact that family care can never be compulsory; you do that from your heart for your neighbor. But you can't put that into rules either. That really depends on the specific situation. So yes, professional care should be used if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	Then I do not understand why Mrs Bergkamp does not repent for the fact that in recent years, with the support of D66, the transition from informal to professional hands has been so severely cut back. She supported the closure of nursing homes and the reduction of daily spending on dementia for the elderly by 90%, allowing carers to have some rest two mornings a week and to shop for their neighbors without any worries. So why doesn't D66 show a little more remorse for the austerity measures taken with the support of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	This is a bit like the interruption debate with Mrs Dik-Faber. D66 supported the reforms because my party considers it important that care stays affordable, with a view to the future. In addition, the SGP and the Christian Union, together with D66, have led to a number of cuts in the Rutte II cabinet. I am proud that we were able to play that role at that time in terms of daily spending, because we saw that the cuts were too severe. We played that part. In addition, together with the PvdA, we have made sure that the austerity on the care packages, which was also too strong, has been mitigated. So yes, D66 stands for the reforms, but we have, together with the SGP and the Christian Union, made sure that some of those cuts have been watered down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. Indeed, where would we be without those 4 million carers? And indeed, overload is a serious and urgent problem. This has also been demonstrated today by the contributions of the Chamber, but I know that the Secretary of State also put it forward in previous debates. We simply agree on that. If you see the problem and feel the urgency, is there a vision to deal with it? I believe that the good news is that this vision is there, namely to relieve the position of carers, to strengthen their legal position in legislation and to link formal and informal care. I think it is important now to live up to what is already neatly stated in policy and legislation. In practice, this must be achieved. I notice, looking back at that vision of enlightenment, strengthening and connecting, that the "v" of finding has been added. Mrs Ellemeet also made that point and I recognize it from practice. Those 4 million people who are carers, they really don't know that. As a result, they often miss the way to support. What else can the Secretary of State do to encourage municipalities to find those carers? Precisely municipalities can do this, close to home, the best. Family care for the dementia of the elderly brings with it very different support questions than family care for people with mental or psychiatric disabilities. That is why we have a motion for a resolution (34550/XVI, No. 71), which has also been adopted, to investigate how municipalities are now implementing what they already have to do under the law in order to support those carers tailor-made. I read in the letter that the results of the survey will be published around the summer of 2018, but I do not read back how the Secretary of State implements the second part of the motion in the meantime, namely to give more publicity to the rights of carers. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he is working to encourage municipalities to make real work of supporting carers to suit their needs? In the Wmo, Social Support Act, it is also laid down that municipalities should support carers if they do not knock on the Wmo counter, but only receive care under the Health Insurance Act; for example, think of carers of people who have cancer. Unfortunately, I note that these carers often do not come into the picture with the municipalities either. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that exchange of information between municipalities and healthcare providers as hospitals is crucial for this? Is there anything else he can do in there? Finally. Apart from finding out what is already regulated in the law is therefore an important second point. Finally, I would also like to think about new initiatives, because you should always be willing to consider what else can be done. In this context, I would like to make the following point. We have a successful scheme to support volunteers in palliative terminal home care. Those volunteers, who get money for a piece of coordination and training, really help the carers by taking their jobs out of their hands. Could this not be done in more areas rather than in palliative care alone? Think, for example, of caring for those who are demented. If this arrangement is such a success, could we not extend it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. After the suspension, the Secretary of State will take the floor for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the spokesmen for the first-term input. I will be happy to answer a number of specific questions, but perhaps it would be a good idea if I first referred to the general comments made by the Chamber. Mr Van der Staaij asked the rhetorical question: what would we do without those 4 million carers? In fact, everyone else has pointed this out in their contribution. Fortunately, mantle care has existed as long as people live together. We may have talked less about it in the past, but more has been said about it since 1971. I thought Joop Hattinga Verschire invented the term "mantle care." I believe that I am not entirely sure that in 1986 family care was for the first time the subject of discussion in a cabinet formation. Maybe we can learn from that in the near future. We do have 4 million carers. The provision of care is not compulsory. As many have said, I have often said so myself, it happens to you out of love. It is perhaps good to point out that the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau is investigating how care is experienced and experienced. The SGP says that carers are often very powerful. It also often gives a lot of satisfaction to provide care. That turned out to be the same during the congresses we held with Speaking Carers. There was also a great deal of recognition and appreciation, love and strength from the words of the carers themselves. What Mr Kuzu said on that point is quite right: it is a sign of more community spirit or a social society. I think we can also nurture family care in that area. It is not a participatory society in which you are obliged to provide care. Cartel care happens to you out of love. The provision of care is therefore, to some extent, self-evident, but it is also a sign of the society concerned. It is precisely for this reason that we should and should not close our eyes to the fact that the provision of care is sometimes very difficult and very sad. This is also apparent from the research that has been quoted a few times. Taking care of your neighbor can be very hard. You don't really want to give it out of your hands, but sometimes you have to. Dementia of partners has been mentioned as an example. Mrs Sazias stressed this point. Often there is a long period of loss, grief and mourning. That affects you fundamentally. For years, you've been together, but in those years, you're also losing a partner. Then you don't just say goodbye, but for years you're providing very heavy care. This indeed leads to feelings of depression and sometimes even worse. This has partly to do with this care, but it has mainly to do with the imminent loss of your neighbor or the loss that has taken place in the meantime. You've often taken care of that neighbor for years. There's no policy against this. We can come up with anything, but for that loss and for that grief, you can make very difficult policies. We are getting a better view of how things are going and what support people need. We have more attention to that, too. Since I've been Secretary of State, I've been drawing attention to that, too. We can organize care more closely. This means that we take more account of personal circumstances. We must then, by definition, take more account of the position of the caregiver. Mr Van der Staaij also pointed out this. Then it is about strengthening the position of carers, alleviating the heavy tasks that carers sometimes have and connecting formal care and informal care. And in consultation with family carers and family carers, the word "finding" has been added. I'm gonna go into that in a minute. I think that's a bit of a double feeling, too. Mantel care happens to you out of love, but when the government or society starts to say it's mandatory, the wrong feeling arises. Because care is not compulsory. See also all the statements made in connection with the discussions on the WMO. In this case, the judge has also consistently confirmed that care is not compulsory. And no, it's not like family care should replace professional help. I would remind Mrs Agema once again that the figures show that since 2012 we have been spending more money on the Long-Term Care Act, that since then around 17,000 to 20,000 people have been using the Wlz and that since the 1980s the number of people aged 80 or over has doubled, the number of places in care homes has been halved and the number of places in nursing homes has increased. So it is not the case that there has now been a sudden policy of government whereby people have to live longer at home. With cabinet policy, we have responded to this change that has been going on since the 1980s.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	I see Mrs. Agema wants to interrupt. Has your general introduction been completed, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'm not quite done yet, but I'm done with this piece, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	I don't know if I'm angry or bewildered. In recent years, according to the formal bodies, 55,000 care workers have been dismissed from care for the elderly. According to the Secretary of State, who took care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	Since the 1980s there has been a development in which people are increasingly staying at home longer. The situation has changed fundamentally. You used to sign up at 58 or 60 for a place in a nursing home. Now people 75 or older end up in a nursing home. Of the people with dementia or early dementia, 90% stay at home, because that is the best way and because they want to live in their own environment. So the number of places in nursing homes has fallen, and so there has been a reduction in employment. But in the same period, the number of places in nursing homes has doubled from 40,000 to 80,000. This is a development that has been going on since the 1980s. If we close our eyes to that, we will not match people's wishes and in the long run care will not only become priceless, but also not fit what people really want. I want care to be tailored, care to be closer and to take more account of people's personal wishes and circumstances. This applies both to the support at home and to the community care that we have encouraged. This also applies to institutional care, where more attention can be paid not only to patients and residents, but also to their relatives. If we succeed, we will be concerned with the future, not the care of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	I'm even more furious now or even more bewildered. I told the Secretary of State that formal sources show that in the past cabinet period 55,000 employees have lost their jobs in the care sector. They have been actively dismissed from care for the elderly. I asked the Secretary of State who he thought took that concern on his shoulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	This leads partly to an increase in the number of places in nursing homes. I have pointed out that this number has risen from 40,000 to 80,000. Another part is that we have given an impetus to community nursing. Another part is that we support carers better. Don't do that, I'll tell Mrs Agema through the chairman, as if nothing changes in that concern. The concern we are now accustomed to in this country is a very different one from that of the 1960s or the 1970s. And we're still trying to adapt care to people's needs. This applies not only to institution care, but also to home support. We don't say anymore: we think this is good for you. We talk much more with the people themselves about what is needed. That will not be as arranged in all places as we all have in mind: I will come to that. Of course, it hasn't been arranged that way everywhere. But let us be engaged in shaping the care for the future and making it more personalized. And let's not go back on concepts that people have long forgotten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	In any case, the people have not forgotten that it was the Labour Party that closed the nursing homes and cut daily spending by almost 90%, thus making 55,000 healthcare workers redundant. People have not forgotten that, because the Labour Party was beaten in the elections: 29 seats off. I understand the Secretary of State doesn't care anymore. He will soon be a hospital director, but there are 200,000 carers who are no longer happy, who are suicidal because all this formal care has been informally placed on their shoulders by this Secretary of State. He doesn't yet show the beginning of repentance, and that pisses me off!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	Fortunately, we had more than 4 million carers and we have 4 million carers. We are slowly but surely getting better and better at getting much more attention to the position of the carers, helping them and supporting them, so that care is also more enlightened and improved in this respect. If people choose to live independently in their own environment for as long as possible, I think it is very good that they receive care that is more tailored and personal. I'm glad we started that movement. It is far from ready, but I am convinced that this is the concern of the future and not that we are forcing people to choose a particular form of care, whereby people have to adapt to care rather than adapting to people. This balance must, of course, be maintained with regard to family care. On the one hand, we think it is very important, but we must be careful, as it were, to monetaryize family care and get some kind of paid care. On the other hand, we do not want to impose family care or assume, of course, that it must be done by the caregiver. That balance must be sought in all parts of the care. For help and support at home I would like to return to the questions raised in the Wmo that municipalities should take into account the position of the carers. They should not only look at the resident, the patient or the client, but also at the carers. The same goes for the family doctor. If a couple or a family comes together and says that the diagnosis is dementia, then the general practitioner should say: let's also pay attention to the caregiver because he is going to get it very hard. The same goes for the kitchen table conversations. It must be obvious that a caregiver is involved in the conversation. In fact, this must be urgently invited by the municipality. Mrs Ellemeet also mentioned this point. It doesn't have to be the exception, it just has to be the rule to do it that way. In institutional care, too, it is so important for the quality of life that formal care and informal care, whether it is voluntary work or the commitment of relatives or relatives, are appreciated. We are already doing a lot in this area and we have made a lot of formal rules, but the question is, of course, what does that mean for practice? I believe that Mrs Bergkamp made clear in my letter that these two aspects are included. Yeah, there's a lot going on, but that doesn't mean there's not a lot to do. On strengthening the position of the caregiver in the Wmo: indeed, it is neatly arranged that municipalities should involve the caregiver wherever possible in the policies they use for help and support and in the conversations. That's almost literally what it says in the Wmo. The Central Board of Appeal has made a number of statements about not requiring but involving them. But the treatment, the kitchen table conversation, is not yet experienced in that way. Do municipalities explicitly invite carers? Do they provide sufficient information on what the possibilities are? Is everyone familiar with that? I think there's some real teeth to it. I am very willing, together with Mezzo and the VNG, to look at these good examples, many of which are now Mrs Bergkamp asked for them to be much more widely known among the municipalities. I am very willing, together with the VNG and Mezzo, to see whether we can further strengthen the provision of information to municipalities on what they can do to better inform their residents. In doing so, we have to consider what comes out of all the studies on the fame of municipal facilities. If you ask if people are familiar with all kinds of municipal facilities for people who do not need care or need care, that awareness of many people is really much less. In fact, if we were to ask in a survey here in this Chamber whether you are personally familiar with the facilities that your municipality has, I strongly support the question as to whether this is going to lead to a score of one hundred percent. A lot of times you need that when you need that kind of care. Then you worry about what's actually arranged and where you need to be. It is precisely then that that there must be good support. This is without prejudice to the fact that I agree that municipalities can be even more proactive in terms of the WMO window but also in terms of what is literally and figurative service available in the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think the Secretary of State is right to say that the municipalities are not yet sufficiently proactive; I have also indicated this in my contribution. I would find it disappointing if we were standing here again in six months' time and again saying that we have managed so well together, but that the practice is not in line with what we have agreed with each other. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what he is going to do in concrete terms to ensure that municipalities find the carers more proactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	That's a few things. Together with Mezzo, very concrete measures are being taken by municipalities for policy officials: how do you shape a proactive household care policy and what are the possibilities? I think it is a good thing that I, together with the VNG and Mezzo, have a look at how we can further strengthen the provision of information to their citizens on this issue. There are, of course, a number of campaigns about combining work and care and the temptation of employers to take this into account; Mrs Hermans has pointed that out and I shall come back to that later. In short, this awareness about the very concrete question of what municipalities can do, but also about what is available and when you proactively make it available to the citizens, I would like to develop further together with Mezzo and the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	I think that's very good. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he can inform the Chamber about this and whether he realizes that the system world we have created with each other is often very different from the personal world of carers. A lot of people don't even know there's a Wmo window or what the Wmo is. So sometimes it's really about very basic concepts and very basic communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	Yes, I agree with that, with one comment, which I repeat. My experience is that general information provision "there is a WMO window and you can get it there".... is not helping. The point is that if you need or need care, you know which phone number, which person or which healthcare provider can help you on that point. This very concrete information, aimed at people who need it, works best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	Does the Secretary of State also consider that the caretaker should simply sit at the kitchen tables, that that position should be secured and that this is not yet the case with municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yes, I do. That is also why we said at the time in the Wmo that, if the College is informed of a need for support, the College, in consultation with the person who made the notification and where possible with the caregiver, caregivers or representative, will carry out an investigation within six weeks at the latest. In a formal sense, therefore, that position of the carers in the Wmo is legally anchored; Mr Van der Staaij has also pointed this out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	That does not always appear to be the case. This simply differs from one municipality to another. How does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that this is secured? It's just not arranged right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	By pointing out even more strongly to municipalities that carers should be explicitly invited. In many invitations from the municipalities this is also stated. There is often also a choice of the person who makes the application: does he or she want it? I am in favour of the municipality offering this standard and the people pointing this out. Then, of course, it is up to the people to say whether they want it or not. There are often options in it and those choices have to be made by the person who needs the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	The Secretary of State rightly pointed out that many people are not aware of municipal facilities and often find out when they need a facility. It is precisely with carers that this is a little more complicated, because a lot of carers do not see themselves as carers but take it for granted that they are caring for someone close to them. So they are not actively looking for those facilities either. How does the Secretary of State intend to deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	Therefore, you have to look at how your caregivers reach. For example, Mezzo works with ambassadors and there are special programmes of expertise for carers and websites to which your carers point out that there are far more possibilities than they might think. Mantelzorgorganisaties, like the Speaking Mantelzorgers, are also very consciously concerned with the fact that family care is not annoying but that you should know what you are entitled to. So we are actually looking at whether we can make carers more aware of the fact that there are opportunities with both care organizations and municipalities as well as Mezzo. They need to know that they can simply apply for those opportunities and that that is wider than just when they need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	All these initiatives are very good. However, these initiatives by, for example, family carers' associations are all aimed at the family carers who have already taken the step. These carers already know they're carers. A very large group of Dutch, however, cares, but does not yet see themselves as a caregiver. This group is therefore more difficult to reach by all these care organizations. It is precisely that large group of Dutch people who do not yet see themselves as a caregiver and therefore very difficult to reach by all kinds of bodies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	Maybe I'm overreacting now, but we shouldn't start saying to people: be aware that you're a caregiver. We shouldn't be asking if people might have a problem and how we can help. We must ensure that people who are carers are aware of the possibilities and rights. This is now not only formally regulated, but also in practice. Municipalities, family care organisations, healthcare providers who come to people's homes and family have a job to do. Neighborhood nurses can see and signal things. We have to be very practical. I do not know exactly what direction Mrs Ellemeet is thinking, but a general campaign on the meaning of care, I think, does not make much sense. On the contrary, we need to focus on the places where you meet people who are struggling with this problem and who are often unaware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	This debate rightly points out that not everyone knows how to find their way to the WMO window and support for carers. I would also like to draw attention today to a group which we in this Chamber have too little on the retina: carers who have a partner who does not call on Wmo care. Think, for example, of people with non-congenital brain injury. Lately, I've had a lot of contact with people who've had surgery on a brain tumor, so they're not congenital brain damage. As a partner, you suddenly have to deal with the fact that you're a caregiver. Suddenly there's a lot of worry and you don't have time to grow in it. You're not in the municipality's setting at the time, you're in the hospital setting. Of course there is a lot of attention for the patient at such a time. But the caregiver is often overlooked, while he also needs care. I now call this particular group, but there are more groups conceivable. I am concerned about the people who are not covered by the Wmo, but by the Health Insurance Act. Who's gonna be their case manager?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	I would have come to this subject when I answered a specific question, but it can now be done. It is good to ask ourselves whether there are indeed specific needs in these groups. Such a diagnosis also involves a task for the healthcare provider, often the hospital. As with the example I just gave of the general practitioner and dementia, you know it's going to be very difficult for the caregiver. The healthcare provider must have that on his retina. I am very willing to examine, together with the client organisations and Mezzo, whether additional measures are needed for this particular target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	It is a fine undertaking from the Secretary of State that he wants to talk to Mezzo and the patient organisations to see what their carers need. When will the Chamber be informed? Do we get a letter at any time, so we can continue the conversation about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	We regularly have progress reports on long-term care. I can imagine that we will report on the state of play in the next progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	It is about long-term care and then it is put back into that framework. I'm really interested in care under the Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	Mrs. Dik is right. Let me choose the vehicle, but I'm very willing to inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	I have a question at the same time. I mentioned the example of someone who, for example, has cancer and does not visit the WMO window. We have neatly regulated in the law that for patients who only receive care under the Health Insurance Act, the task for care support lies with the municipality. Does the Secretary of State also wish to involve the exchange of information between municipalities and healthcare providers, such as hospitals, in the discussions? Can the discussions also look at whether there are problems and improvements to be made, so that municipalities know better what is going on in their municipality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	I'll be happy to take a look at this. I would point out that we have the opportunity to perhaps look at this in a different light when we talk about my letter to the Chamber about customer support in a broad sense. In doing so, we look not only at long-term care or at a specific target group, but also at the way customer support is organised and what could be done better. In doing so, we can take this target group with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	The second issue raised by many Members is the focus on the combination of work and family care. That is indeed incredibly important, because informal care is literally and figuratively part of life and should therefore also be given life-wide attention. The ministries of VWS, Social Affairs and Education support the Next Step project of the Stichting Werk&Mantelzorg, which Mrs Hermans has just mentioned. The aim of this project is to make employers aware of the importance, to pay attention to the caring employees and to provide support to both the employer and the employee. I made a number of work visits in this context a few months ago, and I have come across impressive examples. A car dealer of a well-known brand of course I am not allowed to advertise it to his employees have asked how many of them do care. This turned out to be the case for 80% of employees. On that basis, agreements have been made. The involvement of employees in the company has increased many times, absenteeism has decreased, and this is now a subject that is involved in the normal agreements on work and care. I therefore believe that more attention should be paid to this in collective agreements by employers and employees. This cabinet, although limited, has made it possible to extend the leave of care precisely to care for the family in the first degree. In addition, a number of projects have been launched aimed at raising the awareness of employers and employees of the importance of better arrangements at work. That seems very good to me. We will continue to do so, because this is an important key to making this possible as an ordinary part of life and work and combinations of work and care. I take note of the fact that many Members of Parliament have paid tribute to abolishing the household allowance. I note, however, that there are further wishes which must of course be discussed by a subsequent cabinet and probably also with the new colleague from Social Affairs and Employment. In any case, I would like to point out that there is strong support for the abolition of the cost sharing standard in the AOW. Then perhaps just a moment's attention to the point of connection. It is very important to continue to pay attention to the expertise on connecting formal and informal care. For the quality of life in institutions as well as in support at home, it is essential that professionals take into account the position of carers, including in their daily care provision. You'll notice it in the neighborhood nursing. Good community care does not come about if it does not involve how carers and the client learn to deal with the disease and perhaps carry out all kinds of tasks in which the professional looks at whether it is going and whether it is justified. This applies to support at home, but also in the institutions. You notice that caregivers still have to get used to that sometimes. You can also see from the increased attention in the training programmes that we should not only look at the position of the client or the patient, but also have more regard for the position of the carers. I notice that in the programme In front of Mantelzorg in the future we are going to pay more attention to informal care, and that there are also many hand-outs in the MBO programme Care and Welfare and the HBO programme Social work in the care sector in order to pay more attention to the position of carers in the training. I'm positive about that. I have already said that after consultation with the family care and client organisations, a fourth v has been added to strengthening, illuminating and connecting, namely the v of finding caregivers. This relates to consciousness. Mrs Ellemeet said it strikingly: there are also carers who do not know or do not want to know that they are carers and therefore are not aware of the fact that they can receive support. This targeted awareness among people providing care, even though they do not know it, will often have to be provided by healthcare providers or by the environment or by very targeted information provided by the municipalities themselves. I have already promised that I will look with Mezzo and the VNG to see if we can tighten that up. By the way, I expect the outcome of the SCP report towards informal care at the end of 2017, in the context of the evaluation of long-term care. That report leads the SCP itself to publish before the summer of 2018 on the implementation practice of the Wmo, which pays particular attention to the offer of informal care support by the municipalities. I believe that this will enable us to look very precisely at the targeted actions that can be taken to ensure even more specific that this information is provided to the caregiver. This is in line with the questions put by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	The Secretary of State just said it very nicely on the basis of the example of the car dealer who asked the simple question of who actually provides care. This is not the problem of carers, but of finding a solution that will make everyone better. So it starts with that very simple question: who actually does it? The Secretary of State rightly says that this question can be asked by the municipality, or by health insurance companies, but does he also see a role for himself in asking that very simple question with which we can improve the position of carers, clients and employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	I can, of course, draw attention to this issue in consultation with employers' organisations. However, you notice that this awareness often arises in the interaction in the workplace. For example, it starts with a boss who knows about care, because he is confronted with it himself, and who is not confronted with it and realizes that this subject raises not only questions for himself but also for his employees. At Renault, a number of people are now being put in the spotlight by SMEs in the Netherlands or by VNO-NCW, and they are also being asked whether they can help with other companies. In this way, I am also encouraging that this is not just a wonderful project, but that we can learn from it, and that other companies can be encouraged by it. It is my job to discuss this with employers' and employees' organisations, to ensure that agreements are made, for example, in the collective agreement, and I can also practically encourage agreements to be made on the work floor and that good examples are highlighted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	It is, of course, very nice that there are already employers and municipalities who are actively asking this question. It is even better if we can turn the roles around, so that carers can ask themselves those questions and then they can jacket their employer or municipality. We see that not all municipalities and employers do this on their own. The Secretary of State may also play a role in raising awareness among this large group. I would therefore like to ask him how he intends to complete that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	That is what I am trying to do through the family care organizations, which also have ambassadors in their homes who can tell us how to deal with this and how to raise awareness. They can also help people to answer the question of what possibilities there are and where to find information. We have not for nothing quite a lot of programs running with the care organisation Mezzo. It is not just a question of launching these projects, but also of looking at how municipalities and companies can be helped to raise awareness about care. That is the role I would like to play, together with the care organizations. I now come to the answer of a number of specific questions. Mrs Agema has called for attention to be paid to the young caregiver. I agree with Mrs Agema that we really must stop children from being children. We must avoid asking children to be taken care of, because that is not the intention at all. I have also explicitly drawn attention to this in the letters I have sent to aldermen. Together with Mezzo and the VNG, I am working to ensure that schools, care centres and district teams are very aware that this is not the intention at all. If there are signs that children are being used for family care, then we are paying attention to this and in such a case there can also be an intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	You were going to answer some specific questions. Was this a question from Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	My question was about young carers. The Secretary of State says he wants to be alert and take action if there are any signals. The municipality of Den Helder has very clearly stated in its guidelines that she is using children of 5. We know that the Secretary of State has been denying for a long time that there is such a thing as compulsory care, but there is simply an hourly deduction. A 5-year-old child is simply used for care. I'm not talking about hand-and-spanning when you have a parent in a wheelchair. I'm not talking about getting the mail off the mat or bringing cups of coffee. No, I'm talking about care. If a child of 5 is in the house, it is stated in the guidelines of the municipality of Den Helder that deductions are made in hours. The Secretary of State doesn't do anything about that. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	We should get to the bottom of the case. It is clear that children of 5 cannot be expected to receive care. If a municipality reasons in this way, it acts in violation of the law. We can get to the bottom of the case. We have to do this very precisely, but care provided by children of 5 is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	There's no case at all. There's just a manual on the Internet. I've asked the Secretary of State about that a lot in recent years. That manual didn't move. The municipality of Den Helder continues to do this, because the Secretary of State does not stop it legally. The Secretary of State also rejected the motion I tabled on this subject, which said that children should be at least 15 years old, to the Chamber! Now he's playing nice again. When is the Secretary of State really gonna do something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	For years now it's been normal practice to ask 15-year-olds to clean up their own mess or to help with the dishes for once. However, they are not intended to provide structural support for health care. We've had that discussion with each other from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	In line with what Mrs Agema said, you do indeed have the usual care, the care that you can expect. However, the use of a young caregiver cannot be taken into account in the indication. We are also still getting signals that this is happening. I would therefore like to support Mrs Agema in her plea. Can the Secretary of State really rule out this happening? A motion has also been adopted on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	That motion was passed for a reason. So I'll keep an eye on it. When a municipality says you get less care because it assumes that a child provides care, the municipality is in breach of the law. In some cases, this also leads to a ruling confirming this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	Would the Secretary of State still like to take this point with him to the Association for Dutch Municipalities? We are still getting signals that the young caregiver is being taken into account in the indication.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	That's good. The spokesman of the Party for Animals asked why the household allowance is not abolished. It has, of course, been abolished. The question of whether this should go further is a matter for the next cabinet. However, I would point out that there is a difference between people receiving AOW and people receiving assistance. Of course, the assistance is meant, if it is right, as a temporary support for the period you are looking for work. Then the cost-sharing standard will work differently. People with AOW don't have the opportunity to review that, people in welfare hopefully do, because it's a temporary facility. So you can't put them on the same page. However, I am very aware that this discussion should actually be held with a subsequent cabinet. Then I come to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions, including the question about carers of people with non-congenital brain injuries and diseases such as ALS. I already made her a commitment on that. I'd like to talk to Mezzo, client organizations and the VNG. I have already made a number of comments on the household allowance. Mrs. Dik came up with an idea for a family care fund. She literally said that the leave given by the employer would then be charged to the government. I don't think that's a good idea. We can expect employers to reflect on the working conditions of their employees in the interests of their own company and their employees. In future, there will be an increasing need to take account of a large number of employees taking care of some form of family care. 30 years ago, we talked about how to deal with child care as a man and a woman. We must now imagine that in a number of years' time it will be perfectly normal for us to ask ourselves how family care and work can be better combined. That seems to me to be a responsibility that employers should simply take. It's just part of the game. I do not think it is right to make arrangements where the employers do so, but leave the bill to the public authorities. I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	Of course, there is a primary responsibility for employers here. I can also see that good steps are being taken to this end. The Secretary of State explained this in his letter. It's part of being a good employer. However, there are situations in which the existing family leave schemes and a possible plus by the employer are not sufficient. Sometimes the care that people need is so heavy and giving that care is so stressful and incriminating for the caregiver, that the caregiver simply cannot have his work there for a while. I believe that there should be a solution to these situations and then the government could come up with a picture. I therefore ask again whether there should not be some kind of back-up for those specific situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	This seems to me to be an issue that should primarily be discussed between employers and employees. By the way, the question is whether you can arrange everything, or whether in such a case you can actually assume that the employer and employee in question make good arrangements, even if they are only temporary. In practice, you see that more and more. I wouldn't be in favour of institutionalizing this. I wouldn't want that kind of leaning behavior, because I think it's perfectly normal that when something like this happens in a company, people together try to make good agreements, whether in a collective agreement or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	That would, of course, be fantastic in an ideal world. Then it might work, but unfortunately the world is not ideal. It is simply not always possible for workers who have to provide care to someone in the final stage of a disease to make good arrangements. I therefore ask my question again: why not a safety net for exceptional situations? I am not thinking of institutionalizing this. There is no need for a comprehensive regulation at all, but I am thinking of a safety net for cases where it is not possible to make good agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	A safety net is an arrangement that you have to make for situations that we all cannot foresee. I keep my reservations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	I actually want to know how far you are with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	I'm trying very hard to get along, Mr. Chairman. It's not that bad, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	Well... continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	I assume that the comments made by Mrs Dik-Faber on dementia and waiting lists can be discussed in detail in the next debate. You can see the chairman; that helps a little bit. Mrs Ellemeet's questions on the active involvement of carers in the kitchen table have already been answered, I think. I also addressed the questions about the campaign and the targeted information provision. The same applies to Mrs Marijnissen's questions on the household allowance. At the moment, I wouldn't be in favour of changing the law again. We've got the Wmo. It provides for the involvement of carers. I believe that Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Van der Staaij said that we should ensure that we go from rules to practice, but not look at whether we can make more rules. I think that's the essence of it. I honestly do not see the added value of making another rule in another law. Mrs Hermans has asked me to continue to inform the Chamber of the state of play of the Next Step programme. I'd like to give you my word on that. It was already scheduled, but I will continue to inform the Chamber about the progress. By the end of the two-year programme, in early 2018, a report on this point will follow: what have we learned and how should we proceed with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	I am particularly concerned about the impact of the programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	Yes. Then we can look back two years and see what effects it has had and what we can learn from it. So it's not just an extension. The same is true of Mrs Hermans' question on grace. She asked me to pay attention to the developments in the issue of grace care in the progress report. I'd like to do that. Here, too, there is a handout for policy, a respite guide. Mezzo and the municipalities are looking at ways of further developing the grace policy. I would like to pay particular attention to this in the Wmo progress report next autumn, so that I can also answer Mrs Hermans' question. Switching I get signals that it's complicated in the Wlz with the respite care, especially around the accommodation facility. Actually, it's simple. A stay in 156 days per year is possible. At the same time, you can see that sometimes it depends very much on the care phase in which people are sitting or being used. So I am very willing to take another look at this. This is just settled. In practice, you see that the discussion is about when you use it and when it is acute or not. I will look again together with the parties to see if there are any further doubts. Mrs Kuik wondered whether the pressure on carers would really be eased. I would like to link that question, which we all have, of course, with the SCP report I mentioned. It looks very specifically at the facilities that are now being developed in policy and have already been developed to support carers. We have several studies on this, but at the end of 2017 I expect the partial report on informal care. I think that on that basis, perhaps for the first time, we have figures on what this actually means in practice and how we can reach a judgment on this point. I have already made a number of comments on the matter of grace. Mrs. Kuik asked whether there is now a accumulation of care with carers. Some of it does and some of it doesn't. Part of it is preventable and part of it is not. If we manage to pay more attention to customization in the context of the Long-Term Care Act, nursing care and sometimes in the home situation, this will also help the carers. If we are already able to apply this customization to the indication rather than to the care assignment, it is a concern of the Chamber and of me to move on to it. This also helps the carers. So I hesitate to give a clear answer to this now. I think that some carers experience pressure and that other carers when there is more customization and therefore there is more attention for them, experience that enlightenment. In general, more attention has been paid to family care and not just to patients and clients. This does not alter the fact that in some situations family care is simply difficult, because the disease or the problem worsens. I find it difficult to give a general answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but how are we going to prevent this accumulation from continuing for certain carers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	That is why I want to keep a very close eye on this. I would like to draw attention to the research carried out by the SCP, which is very much focused on what facilities are and are being developed for carers, whether it is helpful for carers and what they think of them. On the one hand, we can see how this is developing, but on the other hand, we can also see at which local authority or local authority policy the situation needs to be improved and strengthened in order to actually achieve that lighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	About this point. When the nursing homes are closed and there is also considerable cuts in household care, there is no denying that the tasks stacked on the shoulders of carers have increased. Apart from how we deal with that now, if I listen to the Secretary of State properly, he's questioning that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	What I'm trying to say is that it's a mixed image. Of course, a reduction in domestic aid is putting more pressure on us. That is also a choice we make with each other. You do not agree with everything in what we want to pay collectively or not and what effort we ask of people themselves, in money or in effort. But if you take more account of personal circumstances, the impulse for community care ensures that we have good access to institutional care. Well, that might help. So I think it's a mixed image. By looking not only at the clients but also at the carers, there is more tailor-made work. That is also in the interests of carers. But of course, there was first domestic help that is not there anymore or less, because we all make the choice that we ask more of the people ourselves; perhaps in money if you can pay it. That could lead to higher pressure, I can see that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	The Secretary of State says that if we all make that choice, it will lead to this. It is clear that the SP did not make or would not have made that choice. The older people who are beginning to dement form the group about whom we of those living in their immediate vicinity get the most signals that it leads to extra pressure. I think that makes sense, too, because those are the people who used to be able to go to a nursing home earlier. It's also the people you're worried about, for example, if you have to leave them alone. So it can really lead to carers literally not being able to get out because they don't want to leave someone who's starting to demented. Then it is obvious that the pressure on carers has increased enormously, especially in the case of early dementia. The figures we have already exchanged here a number of times lead to the shocking and sad observation that they seem to be the result of the additional pressure that carers experience?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	Now you go too far, because the research you mention does not establish a relationship with case management and the feelings that one has. That really has a lot more to do with what just happens to your partner or your relationship. That really explains a lot. That doesn't make it any less bad, but let's be careful not to create causal links that are not there. We'll talk later about dementia care. At this point, I think we are slowly but surely able to look not only at the people who have dementia, which is bad enough, but also at their partners. This includes the discussion on case management, chain care and the role that community care can play. So I think we are slowly but surely able to alleviate the concern for people with dementia and their partners. We're a long way from here, but I think this is working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions to answer. I think I have already answered some of Mr Kuzu's questions about the information from the municipalities, with which I will talk. I also said that with regard to the possibility of extending leave, this cabinet has already taken a first step and that it must also become quite normal to combine leave, work and care, which we also encourage together with employers. So I'm not pulling my hands off. Mr Kuzu spoke a few times about throwing over the fence of the municipalities. I don't see it that way. If we want to make care more personal and take more account of personal circumstances, it is good to invest part of the responsibility for it with the government that is closer to the people. This does not go well everywhere, but I think it will also help to shape the social society in question, on which I think Mr Kuzu and I agree. Mrs Sazias asked me to consult with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs on the further abolition of the cost-sharing standard. That really is a matter for the new cabinet. I know Mrs Sazias' wish on this point, but I think it is a good thing that I leave it to the next cabinet from this point on. I believe that I have already answered many of Mrs Bergkamp's questions on the provision of information. She read my letter on the administrative burden in health care. In this context, I would like to refer to the letter I am about to write on customer support. It is very important to think not only of direct care but also of what else is involved for families, partners and family in order to ensure that care is managed at all by the health care world, with specific care support points being provided. I would like to pay more attention to this in the letter on customer support. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that it is now a question of improving practice. Let us stop talking about the rules and now let us make the practice better. I have already made a number of comments and commitments on this. I'm getting to the point of the volunteers. I thought he meant the insurance options available at that point and the fact that there are a number of provisions for volunteers. For the record, I believe that there is also a piece in these instruments that applies to carers. However, this is hardly known. Then you have that point again that a number of things are quite well arranged, but that it needs to become more known to carers. I will look with the organisations concerned at how, where necessary, we can raise awareness of this. I take with me the suggestion to look at what has been arranged for volunteers which are also useful to carers. So I'm gonna take that with me. So much for my answer on the fly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	We shall now proceed to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank my colleagues for making this debate possible. Although they have been co-responsible in the past for the major cuts in care for the elderly, they too now see that it is important to take a different path. And especially now that these kinds of serious things are coming to light. If you have 4 million carers and 5% think of suicide, you're talking about 200,000 people who have that kind of serious thought in the family care, which often comes from love. I do not thank the Secretary of State for his reply. I am sorry that he is still looking the other way and does not realise that his policy has placed so much professional care on the shoulders of informal care, and that this has also been deliberate cabinet policy. I have three motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	You've got six seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	My first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to stop funding nursing homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to bring about a change in the extreme divergence in professional care provision and thus to provide caregivers with relief in their care tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-58]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thirdly, I would like to table another motion from 2013, because the Secretary of State is probably now giving a positive opinion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the proposal from the Commission to the Council for a Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the presence of children in a household cannot be included in the indication until the age of 15,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I would also like to thank him for the commitments to engage in discussions with Mezzo and patient support organisations specifically in curative care. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas society is increasingly demanding from carers and their employers in the reconciliation of work and care;]] [[Whereas current leave arrangements for family care are often insufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent of the excessive cost of family leave and how these costs can be reimbursed in specific cases through a family care fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cost sharing standard for AOW beneficiaries is definitively not introduced because it cannot be made clear whether the introduction of the measure has an effect on the care of children for their parents at age and of parents for children in need of care;]] [[Whereas people with an incomplete AOW and supplementary income provision for older people (AIO) are affected by the cost sharing standard;]] [[Whereas it is also not possible to make clear to this group the impact of the measure on the provision of care;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the cost-sharing standard for AOW beneficiaries with an AIO benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-61]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a large number of carers experience pressure from their family care responsibilities;]] [[believes that care provision is of great value to those in need of care;]] [[noting that many carers are not yet aware of the possibilities of support and relief to which they are entitled;]] [[calls on the Government, with a broad awareness campaign, to draw attention to and inform carers about the support and care they are entitled to,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to use the second deadline to put forward a motion for a resolution, for the reason that we really want a stick behind the door for anyone who needs care, because that is a right. The text of the motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an increasing number of carers are overburdened and support is not sufficiently organised;]] [[considers that care providers should not be dependent on the way in which municipalities have organised the care support, but that good care support should be provided in each municipality;]] [[calls on the government to extend the basic municipal package in the Public Health Act to include care support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers and commitments in the first term. I would like to say a few words about awareness, partly in connection with the little debate I had with Mrs Ellemeet. Awareness is the task we have. There is a lot going on in the field of campaigns. There are a lot of campaigns going on, but the question is, of course, how effective each one is for themselves. In his term, the Secretary of State gave a number of fine examples, including a car dealer. How do we make sure these kinds of stories find their way to those campaigns? The campaign "How does the Netherlands work?" I think that's a very nice platform for that. How do we make sure these kinds of stories get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. In order to relieve the pressure on the carers, concrete support is needed. Grace care is important then. Municipalities and health insurers must have known and heard the caregiver well. That is why we want to see the position of the caregiver more formally filled in at the kitchen table, because that is the time when the caregiver can have more say and there will be a good balance for support. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the "kitchen table" is included in the WMO under Article 2.3.2;]] [[Whereas this kitchen table provides a good opportunity to identify also the situation of the caregiver;]] [[Whereas the care and/or carrying capacity of the caregiver in the kitchen table is now too much under-exposed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the position of the caregiver in the kitchen table is more formally filled out by municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	I have a question about this motion. The Secretary of State made a first-term commitment on the involvement of carers in the kitchen table. Can Mrs Kuik indicate exactly what she means by making that involvement more formal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	We think it is important that the caretaker is involved in the kitchen table, that the caregiver is present in every municipality. This is also due to the way in which municipalities ask that question to those who need care: do you have someone to help you and, if so, do you want them and, if no, do you want customer support? We think it is important that the caregiver is involved at the starting point, in the kitchen table conversation, because from there you can see what support is needed. There is also accumulation, which leads to more care for the caregiver. The caregiver must have a greater say in this, so that he or she can indicate whether it is becoming too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	Then I would like to ask what else this motion is, in comparison with what the Secretary of State has promised to do and discuss and what is in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	There is room for the municipalities to take it differently. We believe that carers should be present at the kitchen table and that there should be much more involvement for carers so that they can indicate when they are overburdened. I want that recorded in a motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mr. Chairman. I have one question and one motion. My question concerns the indications that take place in different municipalities to put children to work. These are domestic tasks that cannot be expected from children. The Secretary of State made a commitment on this. It's been discussed for a long time. We talked about it again today. But what are we gonna do now? I do not think that consultation with the UNG is sufficient. Is there anything more that can be done? The motion is about the information. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the investigation of the Liability Insurance Information Centre shows that 302 out of 388 municipalities (78%) provide outdated, incomplete or incorrect information on the coverage of carers for liability insurance;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in talks with municipalities in order to take concrete steps to improve the provision of information on liability insurance for carers and volunteers;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about things that are not going well here, but I also want to say that in many cases things are going well. That's what I'm saying from my own experience. Anyway, we're here to talk about improvements. Those are also very much needed. We talked about municipal inequality. That really is an obstacle that needs to be solved. A number of motions have also been tabled for this. 50PLUS will support those motions. We also talked about the household care fine, which the Secretary of State says is a matter for a next cabinet, for a next coalition. That does not alter the fact that, as a Chamber, we can give a ruling on this matter. That is why I would also like to table the next motion on behalf of the SP and DENK. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the spring note, the government deleted the household allowance only for AOW beneficiaries;]] [[points out that the household allowance should be abolished for all carers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sazias, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	This will enable us as a Chamber to give a voice to the new coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	It is a good practice that motions that cost money are provided with cover. What's the cover for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	We still have the budget ahead of us. I think the new coalition has very new ideas about that. I must remain guilty of the answer, Mrs Agema. But that cover has to be found, because it's just necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	We just need a lot of things. But this costs hundreds of millions. You will then have to state in your motion what you believe the money should no longer be spent on. Otherwise, we cannot judge the motion. You just ask us for a bag of money, but you don't tell us where the money comes from. It is a really good practice in the Chamber to, if you submit a motion that costs money, also say how it is paid. Otherwise, we cannot judge the motion. It's financially incompetent to do it like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	In the end, this measure will also produce money. As a result, we will have to spend less money on caring for overburdened carers who in turn need care. I'm sure of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr. Chairman. D66 will not support a number of motions because no coverage is indicated. Not only 50PLUS has filed a motion without indicating a cover. My group will support the motion on the young carers. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. The debate reminds me a bit of the discussion on independent customer support. This is also something we have regulated in the law, but the practice is not yet in line with what is in the law. You then tend to lose yourself again in setting all kinds of new rules. In any case, my group is not going to do so now. We are looking forward to the SCP report to be published at the end of the year. Is it also explicitly looking at the experiences of carers with customised work and the personal circumstances that play a role in this? I am also pleased that the Secretary of State is going to look at the proactive communication. He will discuss this with the VNG and with Mezzo. I ask the Secretary of State if he also wants to involve the general practitioners. There's one question I haven't answered yet. Congresses are well attended. I call the Congress of In for Mantelzorg. Are there any more such congresses coming? People really need to exchange their experiences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply and also for the way in which he did it. He has made a number of commitments which actually mean that what is in the law is also being implemented in practice. I'd like to file one motion. It deals with the possibility of extending a national voluntary service subsidy scheme. That is not the answer of the Secretary of State. I thought that was also covered by the Health Insurance Act. Well, I'll read the motion, because then it'll be clear what this is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the national scheme of grants for volunteers in palliative terminal care makes an important contribution to the training and coordination of volunteers;]] [[Whereas, in practice, this leads to an effective relief of carers by the use of volunteers;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether, in other areas, such as volunteering for patients with dementia, such a subsidy scheme could provide a solution in the relief of carers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-30169-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr. Chairman. A few small, specific questions have been asked. Mrs Hermans asked how the good examples of employers could be better shared. I'd like to look into that with the organization. By the way, I would point out that it is already happening a great deal. There is a lively discussion on social media, with about 100,000 unique visitors, about these kinds of examples. I would like to reiterate my commitment to look, together with the organisation concerned, at how we can do much more about this. Mrs Bergkamp asked a number of questions. Are the personal circumstances and experiences included in the SCP study? That's one of the core components of the SCP investigation. I will certainly talk to the SCP about a specific question if it is not sufficiently clear. I also agree with her that we should also involve general practitioners in the more attention paid to carers. They play a very crucial role in the front. They should not only warn carers but also point out what could be available to them. Do you want congresses to be held? There's a lot of interest in that. I would certainly intend to continue with that, if I were not sure that I am the one who can promote it, but I assume that she will continue to do so with me. I'm getting to the motions now. In the motion in part No. 58 is asked to stop funding nursing homes. We have talked about this in detail. I think that we are continuing to live at home for a longer period of time with government policy. I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. 59 is requested to bring about a change of direction and to stop the extreme divergence in professional assistance. I do not agree with the observation in the motion. I think that we are in the process of keeping care for the future not only affordable but also qualitatively good. I'm dissuading the motion. With regard to the motion in part No. 60, I've got a point. Let me see if we can find a way to meet each other at that point. There are a number of things going on. There is a directive of five years ago of the Centre's indication care. It addresses the question of when there is usual care. Mrs Agema mentioned that term herself. It is said: up to 5 years of course no contribution from children at all, up to 12 years old children can occasionally throw their clothes in the basket and from 13 years old children can be expected to clean their own room. So this is not about caring tasks, but about what no care is given, because children can be expected to do it. Now there is clearly a lack of clarity as to how it is applied. I myself asked the health offices if we could make it clear once and for all what we can and what we cannot do. Of course, taking care of children into account in an indication is not the issue. It is more about the question of what is normal to expect from children, regardless of the care tasks. I can promise that, in consultation with the CIZ and the health offices, I will look into what further clarity can be offered on this point and I will come back to Mrs Agema. I think we have the same objective, but the motion introduces an age of 15 years, which is different from what has been customary so far. I'd like to propose to her that she hold the motion until I bring my findings to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	At least I have the question of when that would be about. So it is real practice that the standard of usual care as it is currently used leads to deductions in hours of care. There will therefore be fewer hours of care from a professional per week because children who can take over tasks, regardless of the hand and tension services a child provides when his or her mother is in a wheelchair, who are already extra for a child with a care dependent parent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	I will re-examine this signal, which Mrs Agema is indicating. I'm very willing to inform the Chamber about it. I can't entirely estimate it, but I would like to try to do it immediately before or immediately after the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	Let's do it before the summer, hoping there'll be a new cabinet after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	I understand you're holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u139	I shall now proceed to the motion for a resolution on part No. 61 of Mr Dik-Faber on the Family Care Fund. I have already commented on this. I think it is right that we should now go to the situation where it becomes more normal for employers to take this into account in a normal way, even if specific agreements are needed. I would therefore advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 62 the Government is invited to abolish the cost-sharing standard for AOW beneficiaries with an AIO benefit. This motion too has not yet been fully covered. Furthermore, I think this is a matter for the new cabinet. Finally, I believe that the government has made additional funds available for those cases where specific measures are needed to support those involved. I would therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u140	The care allowance is off the table for the AOW beneficiaries. Now the Secretary of State refers to a new cabinet. But I do believe that the missionary status was no reason to decide to remove the household allowance for the AOW beneficiaries. We can finish the job now and arrange this for all the elderly. That is really a relatively limited group: they get AOW, but not 100%. Then we just got the whole group. That would be very fancy, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u141	I get the point. The cost sharing standard was applied policies that had already been postponed and still depended on a decision to implement it or not. That has now been said: we are definitely not going to implement that proposal. That deal was already made with the Chamber. This would really be a new policy. Furthermore, as part of the abolition of the cost sharing standard, the government has allocated additional funds to create additional facilities for this target group so that we can meet this requirement. I think it would be a good idea to wait for the results before we take another generic measure. I'm sticking to my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u142	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u143	The Secretary of State is talking about new policies. But once again, it concerns people who also have an AOW benefit, which, however, is not sufficient. They get a supplement. Why distinguish between people receiving full benefits and those receiving non-full benefits? I don't see the distinction the Secretary of State makes. It concerns people who are in the same situation, although the latter do not receive full benefits because of their history.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u144	But a decision has now been taken on the cost sharing standard, which has already been postponed. This is a group that has not been involved in the discussion so far. A specific measure has also been taken to further support people with AIO benefits of 7.5 million. A provision has now been made for this in the wake of the abolition of the cost-sharing standard. Apart from the problem of cover, I think it is far too early to say that we are going to do this in a different way. I'm afraid I'm sticking to my judgment. In the motion in part No. Mr Ellemeet asked the government to launch a wide-ranging awareness campaign. I'm just having a bit of a problem with that subject. In my speech, I undertook, with Mezzo and the municipalities, to look at how we can make the information more specific. If I can read that broad awareness campaign in such a way that it is not a general campaign for the whole of the Netherlands, but to look very specifically at what carers need, how we detect them, how the accessibility of municipal facilities is and whether information can be improved, I am very willing to discuss it with Mezzo and VNG. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I see the temptation is now complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u145	It worked well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u146	In Marijnissen motion to item No. 64 is asked to extend the basic municipal package in the Public Health Act to include care support. We had a debate on that. I think there is in itself an adequate provision and a legal guarantee in the Wmo. I therefore do not think it is right to include this in the basic municipal package, because it will be extremely difficult, and I do not think it is the intention to standardize care support. On the contrary, I would like personal circumstances to be taken into account, but that 'taking account' is guaranteed. That's what we did at the Wmo. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. I have already referred to the SCP study, which will allow us to examine in detail whether it is working and whether any adjustments are needed. In the Kuik/Agema motion to item No. 65 The government is asked to ensure that the position of the caregiver at the kitchen table is more formalised by municipalities. I think that is a good point, but we have already taken care of it. We have not for nothing in the Wmo dedicated a separate passage to the position of the caregiver. It states that the municipality must carry out research and, where possible, involve the caregiver or his representative. I therefore believe that we have arranged this. You can have a discussion about whether it is enough or whether there should be an improvement. The answer to that last question is: yes, it must, but that is not a question of rules but of encouraging and calling upon municipalities if necessary to actually do better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u147	The Secretary of State says there should be no more rules. That's not what this motion says either. But can't the Secretary of State push the municipalities to take it more formally? It's not happening enough right now. That's what the Secretary of State himself says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u148	I have already made a commitment to work with Mezzo and VNG to see what else we could do to encourage municipalities to actually do this. When asked for a more formal interpretation, this calls for an arrangement that we already have. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the Kuzu motion in part No. 66 is asked to consider whether concrete steps can be taken to improve the provision of information on liability insurance for carers and volunteers. I also get signals that things have been arranged in themselves, but that the information on them sometimes leaves something to be desired. I'd like to take this with me in my conversation with Mezzo and the VNG. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion-Sazias c.s. in piece No. 67 states that the household allowance must be removed from the table for all carers. I must point out that a. this really is a matter for the new cabinet and b. the cover in the motion does not seem entirely adequate to me. That is why I would like to discourage her. In the Van der Staaij motion to item No. 68 is asked to consider, for example, whether voluntary work for patients with dementia could provide a subsidy. I do not want to anticipate the conclusions. A motion has also been tabled asking to see what has already been settled on this point. However, I am prepared to see if this could be an addition, without wishing to make any kind of commitment as to its outcome. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u149	I would like to be confirmed that this is not an advance, because it must come out, but that it is seriously considered whether this could be an additional instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u150	With that confirmation, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u151	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-07-tweedekamer-3.u152	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. Then we start with the arrangement of work and then a brief VAO is held on the JHA Council.
