ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u1	I call Mrs Swinkels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u2	Madam President. It has been recalled before: today is my very last day as a Member of Parliament and the very first time I have been allowed to defend a bill in this Chamber. So that's a very special moment. I hope this goodbye gets a nice ending as well. When I took office, I took over this initiative proposal from my predecessor Magda Berndsen. She is here tonight and, of course, I owe her a great deal of thanks. The initiators are committed to finalising the plenary debate on this bill after such a long time. So we are also very pleased that your Chamber has made this possible. The bill is about marriage, which can still be welcomed in a great deal of interest. That interest is also reflected in the thorough contributions here tonight. Thank you for that. We propose to respond as follows to the questions and comments that have been raised here this afternoon. I will start with an introductory block on the usefulness and necessity of our bill. I will therefore address the questions that have been put together under the heading'self-employed partners'. My colleague Jeroen Recourt will then comment on the position of the woman, on the questions raised, on the reasonable compensation from the company and on the protection against creditors in and outside bankruptcy. This can then be summarized under the heading 'protected partners'. Finally, my colleague Mr Foort van Oosten will answer the questions about administration, the problems of implementation that are feared, taxation and inheritance, and a few more varieties. I come to the starting point: the usefulness and necessity of this bill. Several parties expressed reservations about this this afternoon. I'm hoping to take that road. I shall begin by stressing once again that it is essential that the basic system, the legal community of goods, remain unchanged in our proposal in itself. The draft law merely ensures that the current system only starts on day one of marriage, and does not work back until the husbands were not even married or perhaps even knew each other. Well, now it is. When you get married, you get not only your great love, but also his financial past. And that's totally free. But what people are often unaware of is that it also leads to large risks of, among other things, unknown past debts from the other partner. And he doesn't have any part in it. In addition, today it is also necessary to share your parents' legacy with your ex-husband if your parents have not made an exclusion clause. Those two things are actually the most important things under this bill. The initiators want this bill to change: better protection against creditors of the other party and private leave what is naturally considered private. If the future husbands want it different and they want to marry, for example, in the whole community of goods, then there is freedom of choice. You just, like now, have to draw up a prenup to lay down those other agreements. This afternoon it was also discussed that marriage would be less and less popular, but that is without prejudice to the fact that many tens of thousands of people still marry each year. If they do not draw up a prenup, they automatically marry in the entire community of goods. We all know that not only everything the partners get during marriage, but also everything that has been built up for it by each partner individually, is thrown retroactively on the great hopes of them together. The initiators wonder whether the basic legal system is in line with what spouses want. This proposal will apply only to future marriages. Yesterday I spoke to a young woman about this. She's 25 years old and she's going to live together and maybe soon to marry her boyfriend. She comes from a single parent family, has always worked to pay for her studies and has been able to save. Her boyfriend, on the other hand, has not completed his studies and has a heavy study debt. I explained to her that if she got married now and didn't settle anything, her savings would fall into the common pot from the wedding and that his student debt would eventually be paid off with her savings. Her reaction was not only indicative of her, but of her entire generation. She said, "Find out, that's not how we got married." In the eyes of the initiators, this situation would be unjust, but it is so at the moment. The premarital property and the debts but also inheritances and donations are matters that are private and should remain private. If you ask the Dutch about this, future husbands will also report it. Let me give you some figures. 61% of future spouses do not want to share property that each had prior to marriage in the event of a divorce. 74% do not want to share the debts each had before the marriage in divorce. 91% does not want to share inheritances and gifts in divorce. That is what is happening now, and I have said it before, in this way. The law now makes the common thing that is said to be private. I cannot stress it enough: the bill is linked to the current basic system. There remains a legal community of goods, but it becomes more limited. There is therefore no fundamental review. This afternoon several times have been said that this would be the case. I think that's a misunderstanding. It has been said about an extensive public debate on the way in which we look at marriage in the Netherlands. I welcome the fact that Mr Van Rij, on behalf of the CDA, has also said that there is a need for modernisation, given the many different forms of society we have. We would therefore like to await an initiative from the CDA on that point. The starting point remains, also in the legislative proposal, the husbands' destiny from the moment they join each other, i.e. from day one of marriage and not before. So the bill certainly does not prejudge the dissolution or divorce, as Mr Van Dijk feared. But at some point each marriage is dissolved by divorce or death. It is good that the legal system fits in with what most people want. The legal system is precisely the safety net if you haven't made a conscious choice or didn't want to choose at all and haven't arranged anything else. In my view, I have also answered most of the questions put by Mr Van Rij and Mrs Wezel. Of course, there are more reasons. The basic system is not corrected as often as in the Netherlands. Almost 30% of newlyweds conclude prenuptial agreements and thus deviate from the basic system. There is indeed a majority which they do not close, as I admit Mr Van Dijk, but on the other hand the community of goods is not a very conscious choice for most. That's just the safety net I was talking about. In addition, for inheritances in most wills there is simply an exclusion clause. I have just heard from one of the experts that notaries are already working on adapting the models of wills, because that exclusion clause can come out if our bill becomes law. That means a lot of parents won't have to make the way to the notary anymore. There's something else going on in the distribution of inheritances. That division can be very random. For example, one inherits during marriage and then has to share that inheritance, because it falls into the community of goods. The other one gets that inheritance right after the divorce and gets to keep that inheritance for himself. The same applies to gifts. One gets gifts from his parents, for example under an exclusion clause, and may keep that gift to himself. The other one doesn't, and he has to share the donation with the ex-partner even after the divorce. That doesn't just feel unfair, it is, for many. If you look outside the scary borders of the Netherlands, you can see that the overall community of goods, as we know them in the Netherlands, and I also believe in Suriname and South Africa, is very rare worldwide. In times when people are increasingly marrying across borders, where there is internationalisation, this can have unexpected and unwanted effects. This has been the subject of comparative European research and is recommended to join one of the two most common European systems. These differences are very different, but there is still a common denominator to be identified. Apparently, most often comes before the final calculation clause, or the limited community of goods as we now propose. The interruption debate between Mr Backer and Mrs Wezel has already shown that this is a bit of a patchwork, but with the legislative proposal we are joining as much as possible one of the two most common European systems: the limited community of goods. There has been a debate on the premarital capacity of the limited community. Mr Recourt will come back to that later. I would like to mention one last reason why the limited community is much more in line with current social developments, namely that there have been extensive inheritance laws since 2003 to leave the surviving spouse well-kept. So you don't need that whole community of goods to do the same. Mrs Beuving asked whether this proposal would not force people to go to the notary and whether we would not be charging them. That is not the expectation of the initiators. The old basic system remains valid for existing marriages. The new system will then apply to the married couples who are to be married. They therefore no longer have to go to the notary to arrange what we consider desirable by a large majority: the private holding of premarital property and the private holding of inheritances and donations during marriage. If you still attach a great deal to that overall community... I can imagine that this applies, for example, to a large part of the Christian community in the Netherlands.... you will indeed have to go to the notary to agree on that overall community of goods. But that can actually be done as briefly, in a very short act, as already stated in the law. Article 1:94 BW now states that as from the completion of the marriage between the parties, the general community of goods will apply. So with one such rule in a prenup, you've arranged it if you want to stay there. That freedom of choice is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u3	I am a little disappointed at the way my point was summarized. My comment to the initiators was not that they oblige or force citizens to go to a notary and thereby put them at a cost. I have made it clear that I understand very well that the initiators did not want to settle such an obligation, because of, among other things, the costs. But I have indicated that our concern is that it may just not be justified at all if people do not go to the notary, given some aspects of this bill. I understand very well that it is not the intention to force or force people to do so, but then it is the question of whether it is justified to marry without a notary's state of production and without proper information on the marital property regime and on the importance of carrying out an administration. I have also listed a number of things in my question on this point. So it's a different kind of question, more like a question of conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u4	Mr Recourt will answer that question of conscience. I think I can agree with Mrs Beuving that it is better to be well prepared for marriage. It would be better for people to think carefully about the financial consequences of a contract as well as marriage. I fully agree with Mrs Beuving. I believe that there is an important task to be addressed, but this will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u5	The issue is that the content of this bill makes it stronger than the current system that people can't really miss getting married through the notary with information and instructions or explanations about administration and so on. I cannot but refer to the words of my colleague, Mr D66, whom I saw here as a warm advocate of this initiative proposal, but which I heard literally use the word 'incongruousness'. He was opposed to 'justice', but for my group it is an injustice for citizens on this issue. That's an explanation. So this bill is about whether the feasibility is not such that you unintentionally force people to take the step to the notary. Most people won't take that step, with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u6	I think I can reassure Mrs Beuving on two points. Firstly, the initiators believe that the basic system that they are now proposing is in line with the intention of most of the future married couples. So there's no reason to go to the notary. Secondly, Mrs Beuving is afraid of resolution problems, as part of a supposed administrative obligation, my colleague Mr Van Oosten will come back to this, but there is no administrative obligation. Mrs Beuving knows that too; I see her laughing. Furthermore, it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u7	Hence the problem of resolution...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u8	Excuse me, Mrs. Beuving. Was Mrs. Swinkels out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u9	I think so. Mr Recourt says he'll come back to this. So if I could just park your question for a while, Mrs. Beuving? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u10	I just heard that this is what most of the newlyweds want. But what is that statement based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u11	There have been several investigations, including from the NIPO and Network Notaries. I think that this bill is based on even more research than in general. The question is: what do you want when the community is dissolved, what do you want at the time of divorce? The proposal of the limited community means that you don't have to share what you already had before the marriage or what you got as a legacy. That system is more in line with what most people want, as these studies have shown.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u12	The present tense is becoming more complex. This bill also shows that it is becoming more complex. Would it not be better for people, especially in this kind of complex situation, to ask the notary what they can do best, especially since a form of prenup is now being proposed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u13	If I may correct you, no form of prenup has been proposed. We propose a basic system that automatically applies when people do not make conscious choices, do not choose at all whether they like it or not. In addition, research shows that I call it NIPO, Network Notaries and Motivation all the time that one does not want to share inheritances and premarital property. It has not been said that it would become more complex. I assume you mean that there will be three powers instead of one common power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u14	Can you mention the specific investigations of the NIPO and Network Notaries to which reference is made? Apparently it's in there. Then I can look it up like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u15	The NIPO study has been a very wide-ranging study. I'll be back in a minute at the exact location.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u16	I have a question on the subject of investigations. You made that clear, even during the parliamentary written procedure. I understand that your point is that those investigations show that in a divorce, the vast majority of respondents say that what was premarital to me must remain mine. I'm just saying it in plain Dutch and not too legal. Am I to understand that that's the communist opinio? In my view, these investigations were carried out before parliamentary treatment took place in the House of Representatives, because there is a very important violation of the principle of the limited community of goods that the premarital abilities of the spouses are respected. What they had together before marriage is involved in the limited community. Do you not agree with me that when people lived together in their own homes before marriage, which is by far the majority of cases common wealth? That just falls into the community, so what ability are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u17	I hear two questions. You're asking if people think it's crazy that premarital joint property falls into the community. I don't think so. I think it feels quite natural that a house that you had together before marriage also falls into the community of goods. There is a good reason for this, but Mr Recourt will come back to that. Secondly, can you remind me of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u18	You've made two questions. Let me get right to the point. What then changes compared to the current system? If the only property of people is their own house and if they had it together before marriage, it's going to be in the community of goods if they get married now and don't settle anything. Soon it'll work if they don't settle anything in the community of goods as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u19	In the case you're sketching, if that's all you've got. Of course, that's not always the case. I already gave the example of the girl with the savings that end up in the big pot. Of course, there is also the point of inheritances that you get during marriage. This bill regulates much more than you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u20	We'll get to that, I think. In notarial practice, everyone actually chooses that exclusion clause in donations. Obviously not in some cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u21	I don't think I should mow away all the grass in front of my colleagues, so I'd like to leave that to them. I will continue with my speech. What remains, of course, is that people with special capital positions and, of course, entrepreneurs are wise to be informed by a notary and, if necessary, to have a prenup. That is already happening, and it will not be any different. I agree with Mrs Wezel. It is important, however, that the legal standard is not intended for exceptions either now or later. This is about the largest group of Dutch people, who therefore, once again, do not make a different conscious choice. The basic legal system must be consistent with what is most desirable for them. We all care about choice and freedom of choice. Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Bikker have asked how we feel about the choice system. This has also been discussed in the House of Representatives. I cannot stress enough that the initiators have investigated this. However, it has been a very conscious choice for them to make the current proposal and not introduce a choice system. This is the basic legal system. There must always be a basic system for those who do not want or can choose. However, there are also important objections to a system of choice, as proposed by Mr Segers in the House of Representatives. It is really only a very limited choice. It only gives two flavors. If you really want to choose, the palette of choices is much larger. You would indirectly limit that freedom of choice with the choice system that has been proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u22	Then the better remains the enemy of good. I think we can emphasise that. However, we must note that 70% of the current marriages are concluded in a legal community of goods without the restrictions proposed by the proposers. They explain what most of the newlyweds would like most. At the same time, there is a very large group of......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is sent to the notary by the proposers, albeit friendly, with one line on a note, where that was not necessarily necessary. If you'd like to serve a large group, these are the two flavors we see a lot of. I find it a little too easy to wave it away with the remark that we can then write all the options in the law. I understand that's not necessary, because that's what we have the prenup for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u23	Thank you for the comment. I think it is important to realize that the people who currently have a community of property as a marital property regime have often not chosen to do so consciously. Most people still live in a pink cloud and think about the financial consequences of marriage too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u24	Then I come to the second question that I have asked: it is not going to change because of this bill, and so the resolution problems remain inherently the same. Surely that pink cloud should raise you much more in advance, as in the conversation you had with the girl from the example? That's what you keep running into, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u25	According to the initiators, their proposal is more in line with what this unsuspecting future wife, who does not really see the consequences well, will want. This has been demonstrated by the investigations of TNS NIPO and Motivation that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u26	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u27	I also miss a whole component of representativeness in these investigations, but we do not agree on that. That has already been changed in the Lower House; I do not want to do that again. I regret, however, that this restricts freedom by making what is now easier more difficult. There is already a limitation, rather than complete freedom. It is a pity that we cannot approach each other in this respect. However, I have just exchanged views with Mr Backer as to whether, ideally, this would not be the pharaoh, regardless of what Segers has proposed. I'd like to hear about that from the proposers. So shouldn't you ideally ignore the freedom of choice of the general system we now have? Isn't the best choice you have both? I understand that Mrs Swinkels rejected her colleague Segers' proposal, because it was all a problem. Shouldn't you ideally study on that, though? I'd like to get the reaction from Mrs. Swinkels. After all, Mr Backer was a little more enthusiastic about that. I thought maybe we could still find each other tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u28	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan zeggen dat er volledige keuzevrijheid is.]] Anyone who wants anything can go to the notary. We believe that what most people want is going into the basic legal system. However, the freedom of choice to do it differently is in no way limited by this bill. I think we have said enough about the choice system. I come to the next point. The following questions were also raised this afternoon. What does this mean for the smaller capacities? Is what you're going to change now or is it in proportion to the alleged complexity of the system that this is going to entail? Some Members, at least Mr Van Rij, have raised the question of whether this proposal does not create more problems than it solves, given that average, nevertheless modest capacity. I'd like to answer that question. Suppose it is true that most couples have a modest capacity of about €30,000. If that's the case, then this new system doesn't make it any more difficult for these people with such power. This group has often built up property during the marriage and will have little or no premarital property. The wealth that is present is therefore in any case common because it was built during the marriage. So the new system doesn't make it that much different for them. It will be easier for their parents, because they no longer have to go to the notary to make inheritances and donations non-common. There is another important point I would like to make. The average capital is, of course, a consolidated, netted capital. The pluses and the mins are crossed out against each other. But underneath it can be very good about larger assets that are part of that total capital. A division will always be about those individual assets. That's what they're getting at. It is not the case that the individual assets in the event of a dispute become instantly common. So when it comes to a mortgage, valuable goods, a savings account or debt, it may be important that it is private, even if the size may be modest. That can make a lot of difference to the individual husbands. In addition, an average capacity of €30,000 for one is a modest capital, while for the other it may be a lot. Then perhaps you can choose to keep it all organized, to leave everything to the past and to make everything in common; we talked about that before. But I would still choose the just solution, namely: what is private must remain private, whether it is inheritance or premarital property. I would then like to give an example that I have ever heard in my law practice. A woman was unpleasantly surprised at the divorce by the hidden gambling debts of €15,000 that her husband, now ex-husband, had made before marrying her and of course he had kept from her for understandable reasons. Is it right, then, for her part to take the fall for these gambling debts? Or should she have done what is always done in the case of a merger nowadays, a due diligence investigation? We can't expect that from her, can we? No, as Mr Backer said, we must choose the righteous rather than the perhaps simpler status quo. We will no longer allow what is naturally private to be made common in this legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u29	Especially in a situation where a partner is in debt, I understand that this bill can provide a solution. But I'm going back to the situation of the 25-year-old woman with savings and her partner in debt. The problem is that, for example, groceries are being made with, among other things, women's savings but that there is not exactly a record of how much of the private money and how much of the joint money is being spent. So the woman doesn't keep track of that. But what if the man does? With him, the debt remains the same, but the wife's private money falls. That is, in fact, an unreasonable situation, because it should be divided. So as long as you don't keep track of what's going on, you're gonna get in trouble. In my opinion, people are not prepared to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u30	Mrs Wezel outlines a situation that sounds unfair, but which is already so at the moment. In her example, there is talk of messages. Those are the cost of housekeeping. The cost of the household should be settled very regularly, i.e. within a year after the date. So you can't come back to that when the marriage is dissolved and when the estate divorce is divorced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u31	But private doesn't stay private. This law therefore does not solve that problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u32	That is what is happening at the moment, and it will remain so. Our bill doesn't change anything about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u33	What's it gonna improve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u34	What improves it? I thought that I made that clear in the previous paragraph, namely that there will be better protection against creditors, among other things. I mentioned the example of student debt, for which the other person's savings will no longer have to be paid if the new bill becomes law. In Mrs Wezel's example, therefore, women's savings will not be able to be used to assess the man's student debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u35	I have the feeling that my colleague and the initiators are talking a little bit. Maybe I can create some clarity. In my opinion, Mrs Wezel asked: what about the savings of one person and the other's debt if they are going to spend that wealth during marriage? I had understood from the initiators that if people break up, then the savings will still be paid out to the husband who had it and the debt will remain with the one who had it, but perhaps I am wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u36	If there's any savings left in a bank account, they stay private. But in the example that Mrs Wezel outlined, it was about using savings, getting rid of the bank account to meet household costs. At that point, the law says: we are not going to look back when marriage comes to an end, because that becomes too complicated; you should have done that much earlier, within a year, and we are not looking at that anymore. So in that sense, it doesn't remain private. But it has already been spent on the cost of the household. Thank you for your interruption. I hope that has made it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u37	Mr Van Rij, you also have an explanation on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u38	No, because this was a clear answer from Mrs. Swinkels. Suppose the money is not used for the cost of the household, but that the wife from the example of Mrs. Swinkels uses the savings to pay off her husband's student debt. Then there will be a right of compensation, I suppose. Are we not going to get that situation much more than in the current situation? Aren't we gonna get a lot of compensation rights over and over again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u39	Maybe I have more faith in the spouses than you do. It may well be that such a woman does that voluntarily and says: we pay it together. If that's the case, there's no going back to that at the divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u40	But then we don't need that limited community of goods, do we? Well, then you can just do it in the current system if she does. Because that goes into a pot: the bank balance and the debt. I do not understand why the problem you have raised, which you so eloquently began with, would be a problem, in your optimistic image of humanity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u41	You know very well that reality is always greyer than the black and white situation we are describing. Precisely in situations of unexpected debt which suddenly arise in the event of divorce, the other spouse is not involved. That's the profit of this bill. At the same time, it also means that if one of the two spouses has been given an inheritance, including those outside it, and the debts cannot be satisfied with it. If that has happened, there will be another right of compensation, as you have already indicated. Mrs Bikker asked about the weaker party in marriage, who does not administer or has less power. My colleague Recourt goes into that. I'm gonna leave it there for a second. I will say something about it in general, in the sense that in practice the resolution problems that have been raised are very minor. These are not new problems. Most of these problems, when it comes to proof of what is or is not common, occur at the time of divorce when a description of what is in total is made. Then it is assumed that it is common. If you want to say "that or that's mine in private," you're gonna have to prove it. Only then, when the other contests that, will you end up on the suspicion of evidence. But my colleague, Mr Recourt, will go into this in more detail. The fact is that with this bill we are moving towards the two most common European standards. There have been no major problems with this system of this limited community, which is more or less present in other European countries around us. Disbandment of the community, whether in divorce or death, appears to have been mostly successful. I think this is a good time to address Mrs Beuving's question on Mr Subelack's comments. Like I said, there's gonna be a property description at the time of a divorce. One indicates what may be private. Contrary to what Mr Subelack said, practice shows that there is virtually no discussion between the spouses as to whether a good or property of one of the spouses is from inheritance or donation. Usually it's obvious. In practice, therefore, there are hardly any problems. What Mr Subelack is apparently referring to is the use of money from an inheritance or donation. In this case, the mixing of power may occur. But that is, once again, an old problem that still exists today, for example when it comes to prenup. Besides, you already have three abilities. There too, there is a mixture of abilities. And that's where they come from too. Many groups have pointed out that many spouses receive donations and inheritances with an exclusion clause. The same problem would apply to this. Again, that is not the case at the moment. That's not so bad. It is also feared that there will be more proceedings, but this exclusion clause has existed since time immemorial. There's not much going on about that. That fear seems therefore unjustified. The initiators are also aware that during the expert meeting the representative of the vFAS, the Association of Family Law Advocates of Separation Mediators, had a much more nuanced view on this matter than Mr Subelack. I'm very attached to noticing that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u42	If something was said at the expert's meeting which seemed to be working and which really affected a real potential problem without regard to the person, because I did not care at all from what angle the comments came from, it was a reason for us to ask questions about this. So far, given the answers given in the written round, these questions have not been withdrawn. The point that Mr Subelack made is that you can arrange it all on the drawing board and on paper very nice and clear, but that the practice is unwieldy. The system of this bill can give people who are in a nasty phase of their marriage, around a divorce, perhaps more triggers to put it in English to get fooled, in the words of Mr Subelack. I would like to hear it if Mrs Swinkels thinks otherwise, with arguments. My group's concern is that there will be more reason to do so. I mention just the fact that there will be three capabilities, including two private assets. The system that is now being proposed has a much stronger role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u43	I think Mrs. Beuving is talking about fighting divorces. They're usually about the kids, about conversion arrangements and about alimony. That's the problem with fighting divorces. They're not so much about the separation of property. It is often only at the end of the journey and is not the breeding ground for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u44	Mrs. Beuving, please be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u45	One sentence, Mr. Chairman. I understand that very well. That is the current situation, but we are afraid that there will be a third issue when this legislative proposal becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u46	I think that my colleague Mr Foort van Oost will go even further into the problems of resolution. It would be nice if Mrs Beuving could wait for that. He will also deal with the administration and the suspicion of evidence. Mr Van Rij noted that an increasing group lived unmarriedly together. That's what the initiators saw. According to Mr Van Rij, this bill would be of no use to that group. He asked why we're changing the matrimonial property law now that fewer and fewer people seem to marry. Should our focus not be on social contracts and forms? This bill is indeed about married and registered partners and not about cohabitants. I am glad to hear that Mr Van Rij and the CDA are concerned about all these new, different forms of society and are thinking about it. I look forward to the CDA's proposals on this subject with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u47	Mrs Swinkels is now making this invitation for the second time, especially to the CDA, but I do not think that only the CDA should do so. This is typically a subject that a subsequent cabinet should deal with. Hence my plea that, given the diversity in social developments in the field of forms of society, it might be better to park this bill in the light of this broader reorientation. That'll bounce the ball right back. I think there is much more social need for this than your attempt to solve this very small problem. That's not just about the CDA; that's really something a next cabinet should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u48	I want to bounce that ball back anyway, Mr. Van Rij. Do you know how long it's taken to solve this little sub-problem? As far as a broader social vision of marriage is concerned, I think that the road to a state committee is completely open. That must be my third invitation. I have come to the end of my reply. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u49	I give the floor to Mr Recourt. Thank you, Mrs. Swinkels. Excuse me, but let me tell you what the situation is: you are ready and I give the floor to Mr Recourt. You have the floor, Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a brief general introduction. After that, I'm gonna go into some specific questions. Let me make a general point: I would like to approach this issue as practically as possible. This subject lends itself to enormous juridification. The average Dutchman has no message about that. He's not going to the notary at all. He's just in love, he wants to get married, he goes to civil status, and that's where it's arranged. It's only after a divorce that the trouble arises. Like the spokesmen, we want a system that does not increase the trouble and that simply regulates things nicely, not only in the case of divorce, but also in the case of death, because fortunately most marriages only end when one of the two partners dies. By that word "happy," I do not mean death, of course, but the fact that most marriages only come to an end when one of the two partners dies. We also want a fairer system of matrimonial property rights that is more up-to-date. A practical remark in this context is that this law will not apply to ourselves, but to our children. The law will apply to new marriages to be concluded. Common capabilities are not converted into private assets. Although the number of divorces unfortunately continues to increase, the largest number of marriages will continue to end as a result of death, as I have just said. Once again, it is important that this is properly regulated. For example, it's about my daughter if she were to marry someone who's been married before. This is plausible, because the increasing number of divorces means that there will be an increasing number of second and third marriages and composite families. This law is ideally suited to that, because I want to protect my daughter from, for example, the debts that were incurred in that previous marriage. Let me put my own daughter here as an average Dutch young woman. I'm not sure she is, but her chances of a faster school career and a slightly faster university career are a little bigger. Because she may start working a little earlier, the chances of her ability increasing earlier is a little higher. Looking at the differences between men and women, I think you can say on average that women in the period before children are born I don't have it, because then the bullshit starts, but this law doesn't see a slightly higher chance of private property than men. That applies to the new generation. Again, the differences arise when having children. I even think that this law is a little bit, but that's just a little bit, can help to narrow those differences in the sense that there is some private power. Then the question is what exactly is the situation with these differences? Will future alimony legislation, which we also have initiatives for, contribute to a less favourable position for women? No, this law is out there. If it does anything, I think it improves the position. I'm gonna go into fate bonding, if you do get married afterwards. "Lot bonding" I prefer to translate into "solidarity within marriage," a term that fits more with my political movement. It is retained in this proposal. There was also an expert who said: there should be nothing in common; it should be two private assets. But then all protection is gone. You shouldn't start with that. It's spring, so you have to work in the garden, because if you don't keep up with the garden, there's gonna be a wilderness. "Il faut cultiver notre jardin," I say chic with Mr Voltaire. The garden we now have in matrimonial property law was built a long time ago, in the time when the man was a breadwinner and cared for the woman. This is where the story of the ability to act, as Mr Backer has already mentioned, fits. And this is where my mother's fate fits, who was fired on her wedding day. She was a teacher, kindergarten teacher. Such a situation is the basis of our current legislation: the man is active outside the home and the woman takes care of the children and must therefore be protected as much as possible when the marriage is terminated. 150 years later, we are in a new situation where we expect men and women to be economically active. The problems arise at the time when children are born, because this makes women much more vulnerable, but this law assumes that both men and women have about equal opportunities for training and equal opportunities for employment. I'm coming up on the international component. If one does it abroad in a certain way, it is not an argument to say in the Netherlands: they are doing so well there, so we have to take it over. In itself, that's a non-argument. I couldn't agree more with the Chamber. Harmonisation is also very nice, but it is not an argument to adopt a foreign system if our system in the Netherlands is better. Neither is an argument. But abroad is important for two other arguments. One: you can already see that fewer exceptions are made abroad by fighting prenup with the notary. It is therefore unlikely to expect a run on the notary if we introduce another system in the Netherlands. You don't see that happening abroad. Two: Abroad, you don't see an endless amount of procedures. I read somewhere that this law would create some sort of lawyer's paradise. If you look abroad, that is absolutely not a legitimate expectation. Doesn't this law increase the number of divorces? I think that is a very relevant question. I have worked very hard over the last few years to reduce the number of divorces, so an increase in them is the last thing I would like. I will come back to the specific examples, but I think that a number of brackets will be removed in general. After all, divorces are often a legal way to shape your struggle, your anger, your grief and your grievance. The easier those brackets are to be grabbed, the faster that can be. You can never prevent a divorce from fighting, by the way. At least this bill makes sure that brackets like "fuck, that's the inheritance I got from my parents, but now half of it goes to that nasty guy" or "I have to pay the debt from her" is taken away. It removes such feelings of injustice. I'm here to talk about premarital property and the notary. Mrs Wezel in particular made a point of this, as did Mrs Beuving. Both ask if it is not so that you have to go to the notary to make a responsible choice under which system you want to marry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u51	I should like to comment on the previous points. I would also like to thank Mr Recourt for his explanation, but I do not quite understand the following. When we look at the neighbouring countries, which do indeed know a limited community of goods, we see that those countries which have often been imported a long time ago. Does this mean that these societies had then achieved all that form of emancipation that Mr Recourt is talking about? He talked about the situation of daughters and economic equality. Is that really true? Let's take a country like Belgium. Was that so emancipated in the nineteenth century? Did the women there already have a lot of rights, more than in the Netherlands? So I don't quite understand that argument. I have already indicated that we would have had a limited community of goods here if the Belgians had not separated. By the way, that immediately indicates that I am not superideological at all. My question is therefore: the whole community of goods developed in the 20th century, through, among other things, the prenuptial terms and the exclusion clauses, in order to respond precisely to those developments that Mr Recourt described? Short and good: if my daughters come to me for advice on this, then I will say neither in the current system nor in the new system: get married in community of goods. I'll say: you are so independent and economically perfectly equal to your partner; arrange good prenup.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u52	I'll start with that last one. I think it is extremely important that the basic system is as fair and reasonable as possible for all those people who are not so conscious about it. That is indeed indeed what I hear Mr Van Rij say, too, which is usually not the overall community of goods. That basic system should also be arranged for the people who do not go to the notary and the estate planner and I know who steps, because that is really only a limited part of the Dutch population. Why else did they do this abroad? I must honestly say that I am not an expert in the way that was arranged in the middle of the nineteenth century. I do know that the Netherlands was quite confessional at that time. In any case, the current from which my party was formed was far from being established, let alone a source of it. I can therefore imagine that a party such as the ARP has indeed been able to put a stamp on this, unlike, for example, the Catholic Southern Neighbors. But that's speculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u53	Mr Van Rij, I would like to hear your interruption turn into a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u54	The question is whether Mr Recourt is also familiar with the matrimonial property regime in the Republic of the Seven United Netherlands, particularly in the States of Holland and Zeeland. That's my question. I hear the chairman's answering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u55	It's too bad her microphone's off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u56	With the nail-naked stomach and all that. Then there was the right to acedom and the right to ship. But that's the inheritance right. It's going well back where it came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u57	But to answer briefly: no, I am not familiar with the matrimonial property law of the Republic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u58	I brought it up because there was actually the community of goods there. That has nothing to do with the Anti-Revolutionary Party or the Roman Catholic State Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u59	It is good that Mr Van Rij does have the answer, but I repeat: it does not seem to me to be very relevant to why we think that the system we are proposing with this law is a better system than the general community. We differ on that; I understand that. So do you have to go to the notary in order to use the system we propose in a responsible way? The answer is no. I shall begin again with a very practical outline of the way things are going. It becomes relevant at the time of dissolution of the common assets, in the event of divorce or death. What then needs to be done under the current law and under the new law is to draw up a list of goods and debts. I just thought I heard that everything is either totally common or completely private. No, on that list, you have to say by item whether it's common or private. The moment this isn't contested by the other, there's nothing to worry about. At the moment when there is a dispute with one of the items, you will see if you can prove it. With a short-term marriage, I think the evidence is pretty easy to deliver anyway. We've also simplified the rules of evidence. No formal conditions are laid down in Book 1, Article 130 at all. A notarial deed could always have been, but there are a lot of sources that make it possible to prove something, all the way through the digital developments. If marriage lasts longer, many things will still be preserved, not only by the former spouses themselves but also by third parties, such as parents who donate or notaries. As a marriage lasts longer, it is also less important to keep a very careful record of what is true of who. It's common and logical that when you're together for 30 years, you're not going to see who owns a painting. Also emotionally that is true, unless you are attached to that painting because it comes from your mother's legacy, for example. And then you showed it again. The importance will therefore also decrease, and if that interest does not decrease, the possibility of demonstrating that is also greater. That's the practical side. Unfortunately, I must also mention the formal side. Whoever has very complex assets positions, I recommend, even under the current law, to go to the notary. You can say "I don't," but that's a problem under every order. We don't prevent that, and we don't have that pretension. Our law is an improvement, but not a panacea for all problems. They also asked if you shouldn't always have a list of applications. No. A list of applications may be a help to provide that evidence, but that evidence can always be provided in a different way. In addition, a list of application has a temporary character and may change over the years. It is neither necessary nor mandatory. Evidence is free, precisely in order to avoid conflicts and unjustified restrictions on private property. Many of the members have paid attention to the reasonable remuneration from a premarital enterprise. Mr Van Rij and Mrs Van Wezel asked about the framework. How is what is reasonable determined? Isn't that too open a standard? Isn't that a source of argument? Does it even give you upside-down businesses? Mrs Beuving also asked about the article relating to sole proprietorship and La Bohème, but that does not tell me much. Let me start with the reason for this fee. Our bill is based on the idea that what is premarital remains private, as has often been said, and that what is obtained during marriage is common. Wage from labour will normally fall into the community, but those who drive a premarital enterprise from their private assets can spend a lot of time and energy on it during marriage, increasing profits in that company and increasing wealth, because of the lack of remuneration in the form of wages or dividends for the time spent. This is not for the benefit of the marriage community and therefore not for the benefit of the other husband. We believe that this is unfair and undesirable in order to protect an economically independent spouse. That is why the legislative proposal includes a fair correction for this. That is the new Article 95a: if an undertaking is outside the Community, it is for the benefit of the community a reasonable remuneration of knowledge, skills and labour which a spouse has used for the benefit of that undertaking, in so far as such remuneration has not already benefited the two spouses in any other way. This is deliberately an open standard. The diversity of forms of enterprise and circumstances is so great that precise legislation would only offer false certainty, unreasonableness or injustice. Whether there is a constant deviation from the main rule, or personal and operating conditions are not taken into account. That is also an answer to Mr Van Rij's question. An open standard will in the beginning, like any legislative amendment, lead to the scanning of borders. That leads to case law, that is true, but it also offers room for clarity and justice. If you close it completely, with a closed standard, then there seems to be legal clarity, but that is appearance, because in concrete cases unfair results arise. That will also be the subject of proceedings and then the judge will also look for ways to correct them and deliver customization. The case law will therefore also seek exceptions. This is resolved by placing reasonable remuneration at the centre, either in mediation, another important way of resolving disputes that I do not think can be praised and encouraged enough, or by allowing the court room for customization. However, there are rightly questions about how this will be completed. For this purpose, we use as an example that the increased value of the company, the profit realised over time and the standard income of the company in question in a particular sector can guide this. What exactly that looks like will be filled in if necessary by the case law, but this is in line with the wish in the House of Representatives to pay attention to the equity correction in matrimonial property law. Well, this is a first step in the right direction. There are no general comments to be made. In the written preparation the benefit test also came along. Would it be a good idea? As initiators, we have said that we see it as possible, but that benefit test serves a different purpose, namely the maximum amount of capital to be drawn from the company. However, that is not the point in this case. It concerns the reasonable remuneration of the other spouse to the community, of course, to the extent that it is feasible. Mr Van Rij asked whether examples of a standard income could be given. It's hard to make a general statement about that. Take the injury law. In doing so, the judge does not always make a good assessment of the loss of earning capacity in the future. There are as many standard incomes as possible. Mrs Wezel wondered whetherzzp'ers should also be included in this bill. I will explain how they fall within this framework. If I understand Mrs Wezel correctly, she actually says that the bill does not go far enough and that the spouses ofzzp'ers should also be given extra protection. In any case, this legislative proposal is making it a step better, because the private assets of the partner of thezzp'er at least remain outside the bankruptcy. If, before marriage, a company, a company is already run, it is a premarital enterprise. Then the reasonable fee of 1:95a applies, which I was just talking about. This is only about the possible benefits from the efforts that flow to the community. It is clearly not about sharing deficits. If thezzp'er carries out his or her business from the community, the benefits and burdens are both now and later common. I hope I have answered the question sufficiently. A one-man business is already falling directly into the community. We're not gonna change that, except for the fact that in the event of bankruptcy, private assets are out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u60	Thanks for the answer. So what's the improvement? The joint home is also in the hands of the creditors of thezzp'er.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u61	I'll be back in a minute at the joint apartment. The improvement is that the partner's private assets in the event of bankruptcy fall outside the bankruptcy property.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u62	Why has it not been taken into account that the risk of the company is kept outside the community?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u63	Because that would be too far-reaching a proposal. Then we will intervene very much in civil law. That one man's business is nothing legal in itself. I don't know how we're gonna construct that legally, other than you're gonna have to go to a company. However, we already have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u64	Mrs Wezel, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u65	Then the question is, what is the improvement? It would be better for people to draw up a prenup.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u66	In complex legal situations, it is always wise to draw up a prenup. With this bill, we don't pretend to solve all the problems. There is a slight improvement because private capacity is being created. For the rest, this part remains the same. That's right. We have had a lot of discussion about many elements: do we have to take this with us or do we not, even if it gets a little better? Sometimes we didn't agree and sometimes the support fell away, because what you move to the left goes wrong to the right, and so on. So we figured out how to get the base, the core. Above all, we have not chosen all kinds of horns and bells that you could still hang on to, because that has to be arranged in a different way or not at all. Mrs Beuving referred to Mr Labohm's comments. Mr Labohm is also in favour of the introduction of this bill, as the expert meeting showed. His article on the one-man business is on its own for now. In this context, we refer to another expert, Mr Lieber, counsel at the Arnhem Court, who states in the Magazine for Family and Youth Law that Article 95a is actually working well. I therefore note that there are different opinions of people who work with them in practice. This is particularly true of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u67	On the contrary, I thought it worthwhile to quote Mr Labohm's article and Mr Van Mourik's article, which is to be published, because I know that they are both in favour of this proposal. In that case, these are very strong wordings that I have mentioned. Mr Labohm says it will be a source of problems, and he concludes with: a prenup is the opinion. And don't leave it to the legislator. The latter sounds to me as a disqualification from the legislator. Van Mourik says that Article 95a, Book 1 does not provide sufficient insight into the phenomenon of enterprise. Wow, I wouldn't want to have said that about my own work anyway. So the fact that advocates say something like that means a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u68	Mr Van Oosten will respond to what Mr Van Mourik has said, but I can tell you that we agree with him. Only, it's not about this law, it's about a ruling from the Supreme Court. So we'll get back to that in a minute. I went into Mr Labohm's article, where the same expert of experience says exactly the opposite. It is indeed a question of appreciation, because another colleague says that in practice this article can work just fine. A lot of questions have been asked about bankruptcy. Mrs Beuving asked whether the second letter of amendment would not be adversely affected and why we chose to do so. First of all, I would like to stress that, with regard to the bankruptcy of one of the spouses, the law specifically protects the other spouse on the basis of the rules contained in the legislative proposal on the liability of the other spouse's private debtors. This private capacity is therefore already an additional protection compared to the current system, where the current system does not have such a separate capacity. It may also be worth pointing out that often the most important asset of future spouses living together is the common home. This property is almost always financed by a loan from the bank, for which both spouses are jointly and severally liable. The fact that the property is brought into the community does not in itself matter, because the mortgage provider already has a claim on both spouses. The question also arose as to why the community should not be dissolved in the event of bankruptcy. The second letter of amendment also provides more protection in the event of bankruptcy. Article 61 of the Bankruptcy Act was amended. In that we maintain the main rule that the husband takes back all goods that belong to him and that do not fall into the marital community. So all the rules of evidence that make it difficult for him to take the goods back, we're gonna cancel. So you can take back what's private without any restrictions. It has been asked whether this change is not detrimental. I do not see for whom the change is detrimental. The protection for the unfailed husband is increasing. After all, it is easier for him or her to take back private property. This is mandatory in the law, as it is now stated in the bill: he is taking back. He can't or can't take back; no, he's not going back. There is therefore no need for authorisation, not from the curator, not from the judge or not from the creditor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u69	I had to think about it, but I would like to come back to the remarks about the house. If I have understood correctly, Mr Recourt says: if one has common property, so even before marriage, then the bank has joint and several liability. So what difference does it really make whether it comes into a limited community or not? Is that legally correct? Then why did the proposers amend the law by letter of amendment, so that it would indeed be part of the limited community of goods? Otherwise, wouldn't it be the simple community of goods if their own house were to stay out there? There is bound co-ownership, I admit, and a debt to the bank with joint and several liability, but the difference is precisely the following. If there is anything left in a limited community after the sale of the house and the repayment of the debt, it is in the community. Otherwise, it won't be in the community. I did not understand the answer to that point. Mr Recourt suggested that this would be the same, but I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u70	There are two reasons why the home should also be part of the marriage community. First of all, we were sensitive to the argument that no more than three communities should be created. It is also logical that what is common for marriage is also taken together during marriage. Secondly, that commonality before marriage is another. It is covered by Book 3, while the marriage community is covered by Book 1. That marriage community gives more protection. You can't just steal the marital home, to name one thing. So we have created additional protection by frightening that common good for marriage, which is covered by another legal regime, into a matrimonial property from Book 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u71	Mr Recourt says at the same time: otherwise four powers would have arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u72	Or five, six or seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u73	So you have made a concession on the principle underlying your whole reasoning as to why we should have a limited community of goods. That was because what was private before marriage must remain private. In a situation of tied co-ownership, there is private property. Then it's just tied co-ownership. You have now legally brought that into the limited community of goods. It's about the possession minus the debt deduction. If anything remains after the repayment of the mortgage debt, it will be at the expense of both spouses' private assets. You explain it well, but you must also honestly say that it violates the principle of the limited community of goods.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u74	That's right. It is only a fairly logical and partly desirable infringement. We have, of course, received this question. We believe that this has increased the level of support. For the rest, I would repeat what the reasons are for this change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u75	For me, it is almost a death-killer when it is said: often it is a loan from the bank, there is basicity, so on balance... ah! I can see that that's not entirely satisfactory. I do not think that is an adequate answer to our question on this issue. I therefore fully agree with Mr Van Rij in this regard. I notice that I also find it very annoying that this fourth power is always coming back and that it is as if we do not make any meters in it. I indicated in the second written round, quoting a piece by Professor Nuytinck, that there is no reason at all to fear a fourth capital, because there is no fourth capital at all. Both shares in the premarital simple community belong to both private assets. So the shares in the simple community belong to the two private assets of the upcoming spouses and then belong as proposers to remain outside the new marriage community in the original system, for the first note of amendment. The unfortunate thing is that this fourth-power issue keeps sticking, while I have a strong impression that this argument is not valid. Nor can you say that there is often basicity, a joint and several situation with the bank and therefore joint and several liability with the bank. Then we still don't have the core.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u76	I have already added to that answer by saying that the three assets remain, whether there is a fourth or a fifth capital or not. I think that the discussion is partly semantic, because it is about resolution in the event of bankruptcy. There is a community, it is just not a Book 1 community but a Book 3 community. That its shares belong to both private assets is correct. I would like to give that to Mrs Beuving immediately. However, it still has to be dealt with and distributed in the event of bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u77	Mrs Beuving, can you be brief in your question? I'd like to make a few briefs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u78	Now we're at the core. If you have to deal with it according to the Book 3 system, this will result in the curator being able to execute only the undivided half in bankruptcy. So the undivided half of, for example, that common house before marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u79	The question is whether this is the case if it is used as a marital home, but it will certainly result in a different settlement. In doing so, my position is that the protection of the husband is greater when you move the home into the marriage community, because that part of the property is less easily alienated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u80	Finally, Mrs Beuving. You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u81	I do not understand why the protection of the unfailed husband is greater if the share in the simple pre-marriage community has been absorbed in the marital community without shares compared to the situation that it would have remained part of private property during marriage. Say: Half the common home will then become private property. Doesn't that strengthen the position of the unfailed husband? You can advance a complex legal reasoning, but ultimately it means that the curator can't execute more than the undivided half of the bankrupt in bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u82	But the question is whether this can be done. I would also like to come back to that in second place, because I am not entirely sure. In Book 1, extra guarantees are given just for the marital home, so that you do not own that property instead of with your husband with an investment company. The right of residence, whether the right to rent or the right to property, is extra protected in Book 1 BW. The moment you don't protect this in Book 1 BW but in Book 3, the creditor can indeed only tell stories on half of that undivided property, but he can make a change in the property right that he cannot achieve through Book 1. But again, I will be happy to do so in very detail, because I am also saying this out of my mind and come back to it in second term. Good. I'll see what I've answered in the meantime in interruptions. I would also point out that the dissolution of the community in the event of bankruptcy does not solve anything, because even after dissolution, the non-failure spouse remains jointly and severally liable for the Community debts incurred by the bankrupt spouse. The situation of private property does not change with the dissolution of the community. Does a bankruptcy end the commitment of fate that is made with the marriage? As far as we are concerned, that is not the case. Undoubtedly, bankruptcy will bring the necessary tensions, but it would also be a good thing if we legally decided that this would end the marriage community. This could be seen as an encouragement not to solve the problems together. I do not see directly in front of me which system should replace it when it is lifted as a result of bankruptcy. Given the time, I'll shorten my answer a little. I'll come to the briefing. There is much to be said about this, but the point of information is actually on the Minister's plate. We are very much in favour of information. We think that is very important. As I said in the House of Representatives, I repeat this: you can imagine that you are trying to encourage people who have been to the notary or to another expert to get a discount on the cost of marriage. I happen to have gotten married quite recently myself. That was a precious joke, considering what I had to pay at the county. I imagine you're reducing the cost of expert advice for stimulation. For example, there are more opportunities to get information more actively off the ground than to change it only on the government website and to ask a notary to do something about it. I think that notaries have a fantastic role, but they should not be involved in the process by default. I think municipalities have a role to play in this. They shouldn't so much inform themselves, even if they can. On the website you can keep all kinds of general stories, but the civil servant is not a notary. When you need to be specifically informed about an individual case, it is useful to consult an expert, but it should not be necessary. That brings me to this point. My final part concerns examining the basis of support. I realise that Mrs Swinkels has already addressed that point. I can make a promise, because I'm getting a ticket for that now. The NIPO study was mentioned in the note following the report for the Second Chamber, Section 33987, No. 8, page 10. I'll give the ticket through the messenger to Mrs. Wezel. It's about the NIPO investigation that Mrs. Swinkels cited. Mrs. Wezel was looking for the place to find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u83	Mr. Chairman. I thank you for the reception in this impressive hall. I'll walk through some of the topics. Most of the issues have already been dealt with by my colleagues, but the main issues I will deal with are administration, the premarital community and taxation. I'll start the paperwork. Both Mr Van Rij and Mr Van Dijk made it seem as if we were turning marriage into a weekend filled with keeping records and accounting records. I can assure you that I would never have wanted to attach my name to this bill if that were the result of it. I also have every confidence that this doesn't have to be done. In fact, for the essentials, it is pretty soon clear who belongs to what. Houses and debts are also just mentioned in the registers, in public deeds and so on. Some of my colleagues have already mentioned this. Inheritances and donations are mentioned in the deeds. It's pretty easy to find. So they are easily traceable. Cash flows, bank accounts and receipts can give indications. However, I do not see it in front of me that we are going to look back shoe boxes in the attic if after a divorce one of the husbands does not think about it anymore etc. The Chamber can also think of iCloud. This law is also made for the future. I can assume that this law was also made for years after this treatment. Digitisation continues. What if there's a dispute? I'm not ruling that out, because in family law there's always a stick to be found if I can just say it as flat as I can to hit the other one if you want. But if there is a dispute or a discussion between the surviving spouse and heirs of the other spouse and no evidence can be provided, then we have the suspicion of evidence from the relevant Article 94 (8). That is not new, by the way. It is now also in the law, but as paragraph 6. Then it's considered common. Mrs Strik and Mrs Wezel asked whether the presumption of evidence also saw debts. For the sake of the Acts, I would just like to make it clear that there is a presumption of evidence on goods and not on debts. Over time, it always gets harder to prove what originally belonged to who. I understand that, but frankly I do not think it is very unfair, if I may put it that way. Let's take the example of a sloop, a sloop... I'm going to keep it small... that you buy out of private property before you marry. If, for example, after a year, you want to determine whether this has been purchased with private capital or with common assets, it is quite easy to determine, for example on the basis of the proof of purchase. But what if you're ten years ahead? You've been in danger and have fun for ten years, but you can't figure out who ever bought that boat and financed it. Then something like that becomes common for lack of evidence. Is that bad? I don't think so, because you've advanced very much in time. What if fate wants you to be married to the perfect administrator? I don't wish it on anyone, but it could happen to you. You've never dealt with administration yourself. You're gonna be left destitute? We dare not, because during marriage everything becomes common. Private power is often easily traceable. That perfectly registering husband can only withdraw from that marriage community what was premarriage to him or her or what may also have come in in between as inheritance or gift. What's built together remains both. Nor can it be said after years that all kinds of ordinary household costs have been incurred from their own premarital property. You have to take that out of account, but Mr Swinkels has already said a few things about it. This follows from common case law by our Supreme Court. The husband without administration is not unprotected, by the way. I would like to dispute that it is, because there are almost always registers in which the necessary administration can be found of large expenses, large debts, inheritances and donations. If you have a good system in mind, and as initiators of course we have that ambition, that evidence must also be free in our view. It could be unjust and also escalating if there is evidence, but it cannot be argued. People don't understand that. People don't understand that. That is precisely why we have deleted the current Article 130. It was Mrs Beuvink who asked for it, and that is precisely why we are dropping that reinforced rule of evidence for everything that is kept private by prenup. Otherwise, there is a difference between the situation in which assets remain private thanks to prenuptial terms and the legal standard system. Moreover, I believe that the PVV, as well as other parties, has a very temporary character in the written round of negotiations which is now mandatory. There are things like a car, a laptop, a television, but those are exactly the things that can be replaced in the course of marriage. If you're going to the notary for a prenup, then it's not mandatory to make a state of application to prove later what was his or hers. It's okay, of course, as in life, it's okay, thank God. The reason for this is that such a list has a temporary character and is not always complete. As Mr Recourt said, of course, Mrs Swinkels also said in her introduction: divorces and the settlement of inheritances are, unfortunately, often accompanied by quarrels. Not always, but often, unfortunately. We will be the last to pretend that our proposal can solve all this, because that is an impossible task. There is often a lot of emotion in these violent events. Ratio and reasonable consultation are not at the forefront. That seems to me all the more reason to bring the legal standard into line with what a very large group, in my view the largest group of future married people, considers logical and also fair. Because, yes, who has to share the inheritance of mother in divorce with the evil witch whose parents are alive, or who is suddenly saddled with unknown premarital gambling debts, will not rarely take everything to chop the other one up. It would be nice if things could be avoided. Then I come to talk about the business aspects of the premarital community. Mrs Beuving and Mrs Wezel asked for a broader reflection in this area. However, I would like to make the point that Mr Recourt has just said a few things about this and will perhaps come back to it in the second term. But let me be very clear about it once again: it is true that we are in breach, in my view a small one, on the premise that premarital property, the premarital community is completely drawn into the marital community. The reason for this, apart from the consent requirement et cetera which Mr Recourt spoke of, is to find support within the legal profession, within the various articles written about it by all kinds of professors. That has to do with that fourth power, although I hardly dare to take the floor because Mrs Beuving just spoke about it in very firm terms. Our ambition is really to make sure that we have the courage to take that step together, so that we protect people from premarital debts that may arise, that are unknown and can just come at you. Let's make sure that when people have built for marriage and have amassed property, that basically remains their own, unless they decide to hand it over to the other. That is actually the essence of the legislative proposal as we see it. Then we find it forgivable to leave that fourth power for what it is, although it should have been if you were very strict about it. But I am clear about it: it is true that we are now limiting it to three, and that can be seen as a minor breach. I'm also saying this to Mrs. Wezel, who...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u84	Mr Backer has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u85	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u86	I had a comment on that myself. It's systematically wrong, but I think it's legitimate to do so. I understand that if, at the end of the day, parties think differently about that premarital property, they can still register it and have a deed on it, in order to record any different claims. I didn't hear it mention it, but that's just another possibility, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u87	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I am looking at Mrs Wezel, because I had just started answering one of her questions, but now that I see the answer, I think that the point has actually been discussed in detail. It saw on the pre-marriage bought house and the small breach I just explained. The premaritally purchased house is brought into the marital community on a fifty-fifty basis. If people want it different, they can, but then they have to draw up a prenup. I am also saying this to Mr Backer, whom I do not see at the moment, but who is undoubtedly around. Yes, there he is! This also raises the question he has just asked me. Then I come to speak about the rights of compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u88	I've lost it for a while. The intention of the bill was that what is private should remain private. Let's say people buy a house for marriage together. So they're not married yet. One gets a ton from his parents. That amount will be put in the house. The other works at a bank, gets a better mortgage and therefore takes 60%. Then why not just each one to his share? Why don't you just split up fairly? Isn't that the idea of keeping everything private private?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u89	I essentially agree with you on that. That is why I was just trying to point out that, in my view, the initiators accept this rather clear breach of the initial proposal. We have read a great deal of criticism of this, including from the professors' world. Then there will be a proper discussion, including about that famous fourth capital. We say: if you have built up common property for the marriage, then that goes on fifty-fifty basis to the marriage unless you make different agreements on the basis of a prenup. Mr Recourt rightly says that the tonne remains private for the rights of claim. Let me give you a brief summary for those who may be having a bit of a dip right now. Jointly acquired premarital property falls within the community of goods; all other premarital property, gifts and inheritances remain private. I had started with the rights of remuneration in Article 1:87, which was already in force. Mr Van Rij and Mrs Beuving asked. There was also a reference to someone I have very high regard for, Mr Van Mourik, and an upcoming article by him in the WPNR. The central question is: is it fair that when a share in value increases, the right to compensation is fully increased? I do not know if that was true for others, but at least we had the privilege to take note of that forthcoming article. This view of the author on the effects of the application of Article 1:87's investment theory on an undertaking financed with the assets of the other spouse is, for the time being, consistent with the provisions of Article 1:87 and the related provisions for the company in the case-law. Our bill doesn't change that either. Let me be clear about that, because that seems to be the essence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u90	Would you care to comment on that argument a little more precisely? You also have the article that prof. Van Mourik has written and will be published next Saturday. His argument is that a share is not property, but a special right to claim against the e.g. He then distinguishes between a dwelling and a share in an e.g. Here's what he's saying. The capital increase in the e.g. is the reflection, the impact of the company's activities. You will be reimbursed by salary or dividend. It would be very unfair, at least I understood that if that increase in capital is not paid out as a salary or as a dividend, which does not benefit the community for the full amount, the €620,000 in that calculation example, but to the spouse who has the right to compensation. I will not explain this in detail now; you know that too. He says it's supposed to be $20,000. That is at the heart of his speech. You are talking about a vision, but it does not do justice to the article. Perhaps we can get some clarification during this debate. That is very important for parliamentary history. It was, by the way, a tax question that I had asked. I also got an ear fig from Van Mourik, because I had not entirely formulated that question. So we're in the same camp. I have been given an ear fig and you have been given a slightly bigger ear fig, because the title is: A worrying parliamentary misunderstanding. So let's get that out of the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u91	It is all the better that we are still discussing it on the basis of this supplementary question from Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u92	First, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u93	I find it difficult for the parliamentary debate to quote from an article which is not part of the debate. I don't know the article. All kinds of wordings and reasonings are attached to them. I find that very interesting. Perhaps we can get the Rule before the votes on the parliamentary documents, if the author so wishes. Then at least I know what this is about, because I find this a bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u94	I agree with you. It's an unpublished article right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u95	I take note of that. Let me just say this: as far as my knowledge is concerned, in this indeed unpublished article there is in fact criticism of judgments of the Supreme Court, i.e. on the line set by the Supreme Court. However, that is not what our legislative proposal is about. Of course, we can say a lot about it and find out everything about it, but I think it is good to make this comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u96	Then I withdraw my request. If this isn't the case here, perhaps it's an interesting article by Professor Van Mourik that I'd like to read sometime. If it's not here, it's not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u97	Our bill doesn't change anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u98	Mr Van Rij has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u99	That article is really not much more than I have just explained with regard to Article 87. I tried to explain and I got the impression that the initiators understood it as well. It's actually just the question of how a share in an e.g. is treated versus another asset. Maybe we can respond to that. After all, it is important for parliamentary history how the initiators see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u100	I would like to say, quite apart from the whole article, that the issue raised is whether the doctrine of remuneration that has been reflected in Article 87, particularly where it relates to shares, securities and so on, is a doctrine that is working in a good way. You can find anything you want. You can criticize the existing doctrine, as laid down by the Supreme Court. We have merely considered that our legislative proposal does not change anything in this respect, and so I shall not look at it in the direction of my fellow Members, as such. I think this in itself is the reflection of what I am trying to say. Where I have given it complex publicity by referring to an upcoming article, which is therefore not yet available, that only complicates it. I hope to have restored that along this road. I come to the issue of taxation. This is a very important subject that several members of the First Chamber have asked for. It is true that the Tax Administration always comes around the corner, at an earlier or later moment. I would do well to change that for once, but I must first see if there is consensus behind this table. It's not that far. The question is whether it is important who will be the first to die of the partners. Is it now the case that the effects of inheritance law would have more effect on the longest-lived? I'd like to go into that more closely. First of all, it depends very much on personal circumstances. In advance, it is not possible to say that we have also stated in our note whether the survivor pays more or less tax than is currently the case. That also depends very much on whether he or she is the one with own funds. If there is a 'limited', I say in quotes, equity, it really doesn't matter tax. I think it is important to explain for a moment what we mean by 'limited'. Limited under the current exemption is €638,000. I dare tell you that I would squeeze my hands if I had €638,000 at my disposal, while I have quite a good job with a good salary. 70% of the people, as I have been told, do not have to deal with the problem raised, the concerns that might arise from the group that has more power, which thus exceeds that exemption. Let's say that own funds are above that tax threshold. Then there is a chance that prenup or estate planning will come into play. I believe that Mr Recourt has already said that we are not banning a prenup. In fact, I don't see it happening that that morning would be gone. If you have a company or if you have a lot of ability, I would also advise you to go and get information from an expert, whether or not a notary, and think about how you go about it. That is not the group of people we are defending here and for whom we have now tabled this proposal. Perhaps it is also good to note in general terms about taxation that we do not actually change anything at all. Mr Van Dijk also asked for this in a broader sense. In the Lower House it also came along, especially in the written round. In fact, we're not changing anything. Mrs Beuving also referred to a quote by Professor Huijgen. That's about the assumption that in the context of estate planning, the legal community is incredibly popular, because older people convert their prenup into a legal community. As rightly pointed out, marriage often ends with death. However, this does not always happen. Sometimes, for example, marriage ends through divorce, or because one of the spouses might die much earlier. All in all, it is very dependent on when and how a marriage ends. If the spouse dies who, for example, has not acquired a inheritance, then his private property shall remain unchanged and the property of the community shall be half of the estate. This means that this property will be subject to inheritance tax again. The other spouse's private property will not be taxed again until he or she dies. Well, for those who have lost me, we just want to point out that it is simply not possible to say in general that the death bill is worse or better for tax purposes. Nor do we pretend any change on this point. We want a change in civil law, because we also believe that it should be a guiding principle in this context. The tax issues should not be leading, although, of course, they are rightly raised. I have tried to answer them to the best of my ability. Finally, I would like to say something in the direction of the Chamber. This is not irrelevant and, in my view, Mr Recourt has indicated it. The MPs know it all. All this only applies to new marriages. The tax consequences also apply only to new marriages. It applies to future marriages and cases of death which, I hope, will only occur in the distant future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u101	I'm doubting a little, because there's a great risk that we're gonna fall into fiscal cases. I don't want to. I can follow Mr Van Oosten's reasoning. That is what I said in the first term. He says: there are already a number of tax issues in existing matrimonial property law, with the community of goods. They concern the treatment of the home, the treatment of significant importance, and there are still a number of questions. I agree with Mr van Oosten when he says that our legislative proposal does not change that, nor did we intend to. However, I would like to repeat my question, which I also asked in the first term. If the matrimonial property regime is to be changed, would it not be an appropriate opportunity to solve the existing issues and bottlenecks, which are sometimes seen as injustices, right away? In short, I am in favour of an integrated approach here. Will Mr Van Oosten please go into that again? In my opinion, that is a missed opportunity. Although I can't wait, I'm just gonna stay away from the casuism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u102	I would like to confess that I am secretly a little grateful to Mr Van Rij for the latter, Mr President. Of course, anything can always be better. I'm not gonna put that under seats or couches. There is no doubt that it will be even better on this point. But I think it was Mr Backer who said in his term: let the better not be the enemy of good. I hope I'm saying it right. We are trying to bring about a change in family law here. All the spokesmen are very involved. That's what I've been hitting since I was allowed to do this beautiful job and join these initiators. I've been able to see that this is a lot of people's business. It's just people at home getting married or already in marriage. But this also involves a lot of lawyers, experts, fiscalists, professors and so on. We pretend in all modesty to take only that step. I realize there's always more to be done, but we're restricting it to this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u103	Mr. Chairman. Because I hope to get married for 25 years this year, it was 25 years since I had the opportunity to study marriage property law. I would therefore like to begin by thanking the authors for the opportunity they have given me for this and for the hard work that has been done on the complex and socially very relevant issue of marriage property law. But I would also like to express my appreciation for what Mrs Berndsen has done in this regard, as the first initiator. The role of the cabinet in assessing own-initiative proposals is that of advisors to the Chamber, focusing specifically on whether the initiative law is enforceable and whether there are any insurmountable repercussions in other areas. With this look at the legislative proposal, I say before I go into the specific questions asked to me, the cabinet believes that there is no legal objection to the present proposal. It is a political consideration whether political groups think it is an improvement on balance, but the cabinet sees no objections and likes to leave the law to the Court's opinion. I come to the specific questions put to me, first and foremost those of Mr Van Rij. He asked whether it would not be wise to treat a bill like this as part of a broader vision of marriage and forms of society in our society. I translate that question in such a way that the first question is whether it is necessary to have such a broader vision in order to be able to handle a law like this properly. I do not think that you can say that this is necessary, because it is not unusual, even if the government comes up with a bill on this subject to put a part in a law. The environment is, of course, monitored, but it is not only done when such a broader vision exists. The cabinet will not come up with such a vision in the current missionary phase either. It is inevitably partly politically coloured. Then it would be more logical to leave it to reformers and interested parties to decide whether they would like to come to the next cabinet. Mr Van Rij also asked me: why this bill if nothing is going to change in practice? Once again, it is ultimately a political balance. What the bill essentially does is change the matrimonial property regime for the standard option if parties do not make a choice. Again, whether you think that is desirable is a political choice. Is it feasible? My answer to that is yes. Mr Van Rij also asked me about taxation. Very practical: when is the letter from the Secretary of State for Finance on the tax case presented by Mr Van Rij? The Secretary of State will send the letter this month. I am sorry that the letter has not yet arrived at the debate, but it will come in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u104	I'm really very disappointed about that. With all due respect to the initiators and the answers they have given to the tax questions: this letter was promised before mid-March. The law is now on March 21st. We don't have the letter. He is now promised by the end of March. That is after we have voted on the bill. This is something very important. It's about what the Secretary of State for Finance thinks. This deprives us as the First Chamber of the opportunity to respond. So I am very disappointed with this reply from the Minister and I do not think that the care of the legislative process in this House is being taken into account in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u105	I respect Mr Van Rij's position, but I would like to point out that the government has already indicated in the written round that there are no new tax consequences of this law. Mr Van Financiën is happy to answer the questions about specific cases, but that does not change what is the main question: are there new tax consequences? The answer to that is no. Mr Backer was the first to ask, after him also Mrs Wezel and Mr Schouwenaar, for information from the government or for people who marry. At the moment, information about the different matrimonial property regimes is available via the government website. This will also be the case if this law is adopted. The consequences of this specific amendment will undoubtedly be generated by the adoption of the law. In addition, the government believes that in future, as at present, it is very much on the way of the professions, particularly the Royal Notarial Professional Organization, to provide specific information on the various matrimonial property regimes. That's true now. The importance of this information does not change this law. Mrs Bikker asked whether an open standard is sensible when it comes to the reasonable remuneration for one's own entrepreneurship. The advantage of an open standard is that there is room for the spouses to provide themselves with the compensation they consider reasonable for the knowledge or work provided. They can therefore take into account the financial status of the company. Nor is it unusual to work with such an open standard in legislation. In the end, it also gives the judge the opportunity to assess the reasonableness and fairness in the specific case. Because open standards are used more often, there is no reason to believe that a judge would not be able to deal with them properly. Mrs Bikker also asked how this bill relates to the bill on partner alimony. That too is an initiative legislative proposal, as Mrs Bikker knows. The partner alimony regime applies by definition after the end of the marriage, while this bill concerns the situation during the marriage. The initiative legislative proposals can therefore be adopted independently or not. Mrs Bikker also asked whether additional tax revenues would be expected as a result of the own-initiative proposal. The answer to that is no, also in line with what I said to Mr Van Rij: no new tax consequences are expected, therefore no additional revenue. Mrs Wezel asked about the impact of the new possibility of digital marriage declaration. This bill does not really have any influence on that. It is an extra, modern possibility to announce marriage, a bit more modern than the classical marriage at the town hall, but does not touch the content of this bill. Mrs Wezel also asked whether it would not be preferable to deal with a more comprehensive legislative proposal, which would include this proposal. I have already indicated to Mr Van Rij that this is not necessary in order to be able to take these measures. The cabinet in missionary status won't come up with it either. Mrs Wezel also asked whether it would be better for every entrepreneur to go to the notary for information on any prenup. I immediately agree with Mrs Wezel that it is very sensible for an entrepreneur and marriage candidates to go to a notary to be properly informed about the consequences of both self-entrepreneurship and marriage as well as combinations thereof. We can't force people to do that, and that's a good thing. In any case, the legislation must ensure that if people do not want that advice and therefore fall back on the standard legislation, it is sound and enforceable. I have indicated that I believe that the initiative proposal complies with this. Both Mrs Wezel and Mr Schouwenaar asked whether the government intends to include in a legislative proposal the proposals for improvement which have been made on various sides of this law. The answer to this is that the cabinet will not do so at this stage. If the law is passed, we will experience it. If there are grounds for doing so, we can of course consider whether additional legislation is needed, but at the moment we do not intend to do so. Mrs Wezel and Mr Schouwenaar asked whether stricter rules should not be laid down by the legislator on the reasonable remuneration of companies. As I said to Mrs Bikker, the government also believes that an open standard is workable and also offers advantages, because both marriage partners can do tailor-made work on this remuneration in good consultation. Mr Schouwenaar asked about the implementation of the Bergkamp motion on broad and neutral life-form education. That motion was adopted during the examination of this law in the Lower House. The motion calls on the government to consult with professional groups on an integrated approach to comprehensive and neutral life-form education. The motion states that this information must be provided by the professions. The implementation of the motion follows logically from the adoption of the bill. In that order, we shall first await the opinion of the Chamber on the legislative proposal. If that's okay, we'll proceed with the motion. That is what we will do at that time. Mrs Beuving asked whether the proposed system was justified without a visit to the notary. My answer to that is: as much or little as the current system. Again, I would consider it very sensible if wedding candidates, regardless of whether they are entrepreneurs, were first properly informed by a notary about the consequences. However, this bill does not change that desirability. This also applies to the current construction, where partners can suddenly be held liable for debts without realising them properly. This will also be a reason in the current system to ask for good information from a notary in advance. The new system also implies that this would be sensible. If people do not do so, there is a relapse to a basic legal regime which, I repeat, is, in my opinion, feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u106	But under the proposed system there is reason to come up with a state of application and there is a great importance to administer during the marriage. Those were reasons for me to ask this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u107	Yes, but under the current system there is also reason to ask the future partner what the capital position is and, above all, whether it is not seriously negative. If people don't do that, it could be a nasty situation. This situation would be less annoying in the new legislative proposal, but there is another challenge that arises, namely not the obligation but the desirability of administering it. Moreover, this desirability now also arises when people do choose a prenup. In practice, this is not carried out very precisely, without noticing that for this reason the prenup is currently completely unenforceable. To sum up, it does not, in my view, result in the situation suddenly becoming more complicated than it is now. In both situations, it would be wise for people to be properly informed. Mr Van Dijk asked what the government would think of a completely free choice system. In a way, there is and remains so. After all, the law regulates what happens if not elected. However, both the current legislation and the proposed legislation offer candidates the possibility to choose a different interpretation. If you were going to include a number of options in the law, I think it might be out loud; perhaps Mr Van Dijk is looking for it in that direction, then you would still have to arrange how to determine which choice is made and what happens if people don't choose. I also believe that this legislative proposal is feasible. I'm sure there are other executable variants to think of, but they're not ahead of us now. Mr Van Dijk asked whether it would perhaps be attempted to show that there was no private power at all, in order to reduce the inheritance tax. Such an attempt can also be made under the current marital property regime. The chances of success are as high or as small as under the present legislative proposal. Mr Van Oosten also pointed out that there is an exemption of about six tonnes within the marriage for inheritance duties. The group for whom this would be tempting is therefore clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u108	I have a brief question about this. The Minister says that it does not really matter and that it can be done in the current system. However, in the current system there is a community of goods and there is one asset, while in the new situation there are three assets. In my view, Mr Van Dijk was trying to say with his question that the temptation might exist to move private property to the limited community of goods in order to save a piece of inheritance tax. So there is a little less good administration. Of course, there's no temptation now, because it's in the community. It's fifty-fifty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u109	Yes, but even now there are people who are changing their marital property regime again in the hope of being able to influence inheritance taxes. An example of this was also mentioned. So it's not like you couldn't plan in the current system. Some people make it a sport or a livelihood. This can be done in the current system and it can be done in the new system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u110	Finally, Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u111	In the legal system, in the overall community of goods, there is just one asset. If one of the spouses dies, half belong to the matrimonial property and the other half to the estate. In the new situation, there are three capabilities and this temptation can therefore be present. Perhaps I see it wrong, but in my view the Minister is referring to the situation that there is a prenuptial agreement under the current regime and that there is still a final settlement clause, for example. That's something else, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u112	That is something else, but the need for fiscal craftsmanship exists in some people. This can be done under the current regime, and this can also be done under the future regime. Mrs Strik asked me whether I would like to see adequate information provided by municipalities and professional groups and, if necessary, to intervene. I have already indicated that there is currently information material available from the government on the marital property regime. That will also be the case in the future, but that will always be common. I think it is desirable for people to go into this further, but then you always come to customization and you are really dependent on the notaries in particular. The division of tasks as it is now is: general information by the public authorities and specific information by notaries in particular................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I hope that I have answered the questions I have been asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u113	We have thus reached the second term of office. One moment, I see Mrs Wezel has a request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u114	Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u115	Is a five-minute suspension enough? It seems to me that this is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u116	We are now ready for the second term of office. I call Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u117	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for the very comprehensive answer to the many questions. There are three points to be made. Despite the answers to the questions, the question remains what this bill actually solves, looking at the social developments in marriage and living together. If you approach it positively, it's only a very small part of the puzzle. In the first term, I have already said that we have a great deal of difficulty with this. In terms of legal systems, implementation and legal certainty, despite the answers, there are still very serious concerns and concerns, not only with the CDA Group, but with several groups in this Chamber. As a result, I would like to make a motion on behalf of Mr Wezel of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. If it's all right, the motion is signed by enough members. The President shall: Mr Van Rij, Mr Wezel, Mr Kox, Mr Bikker and Mr Van Dijk proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are major concerns within the First Chamber as to the feasibility, legal certainty and legal systems arising from this initiative proposal;]] [[expresses the wish that the current legislative proposal should be kept under review;]] [[calls on the Government, after consulting the initiators, to examine the possibility of incorporating the present initiative proposal into a new legislative proposal, taking into account the concerns and concerns expressed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33987-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u118	I can keep my second term short and finish with one request. It's actually a question. I would ask you to put this motion to the vote first next week if it comes to a vote, that is to say, for the draft law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u119	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u120	Mr. Chairman. I take note of this motion. It has not been submitted to me for signature, but that is perhaps understandable from the thought that I would not co-sign it. The motion does surprise me, however, all the more so because I myself believe that the initiators and the Minister have set out in a very enlightening manner a large number of questions that have been raised this evening. I refer to questions such as the premarital capacity and the transparency of the scheme. I would also like to mention the issue in which Mrs Swinkels gave a very good example of the savings that are being used. This also applies to a part of which I have said myself that there could be questions. But of course it is a very good example. If you decide to put your own money into the common account, then it is part of that. But the bill is, of course, important about the fact that, if you do not, that money will not be used to deal with the partner's debts either. That is, of course, what this proposal is about. That power does not belong to it automatically. That is clearly stated. That is why I think the proposal is an improvement. Mr Van Rij gave a personal example. That always speaks to you when you tell me how daughter comes to you with a question. Mr Recourt also spoke about a personal matter. I could do the same, but I would like to give the following to Mr Van Rij, and I do not mean that simply but seriously. We have daughters who can go to a father who can look at this matter and give good advice on it. That doesn't mean they're listening to that. However, this is about the thousands who do not get that advice at home or anywhere else, and who make a choice that they do not see. That is what this proposal is about. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u121	That's right. I couldn't agree more. That is what I said in the first term. What we do not agree on is that the current regime is very simple for by far the largest group of Dutch people, who have no or no assets. You're getting married and it's fifty-fifty. The new regime is becoming very complicated and needs to be explained. That is exactly why we do not think it is a good proposal. We disagree on that. When I spoke about the daughters, I said quite conditionedly: if they come to me already. You'd better assume that's what they're really gonna decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u122	I think they will, Mr Van Rij. But this is indeed the point. It is about the appreciation of whether the system becomes more complicated. I thought the Minister was very clear about this. He said it's a good thing to do it. I think that is an interesting statement from the Minister. The subject of taxation has just been discussed. It would not be an obstacle for my group to go a little further on taxation. The Minister has made that clear. It is touching, but it is not a substantial change in taxation. Of course, there must be an answer, but that is not a decisive factor in my group's opinion on this. Aren't there any worries at all? Of course there are. They are also addressed and discussed extensively in many cases, as we did in the written preliminary round. In this debate, of course, you will notice that personal and family law is a sensitive area. I told you in my first term. We talk about how you look at social developments and how you understand the signs of time. And then you come to the question of whether this is an incremental improvement. Yes, even in the worst case, of bad administration and arguing about divorce, even in that case this is still better than it is now. I think that Mr Van Oosten made a very good point, that I had not yet realized myself, namely that part of the disputes are about children, but when they are about wealth, it is also about a sense of disadvantage. There is always irrationality in these arguments, but that feeling of disadvantage is reduced by this proposal. I'm gonna finish up. I started with the opening sentence of Tolstoy's second novel, Anna Karenina. The first novel was called War and Peace. I really hope that after the intensive debate we have had, we will be able to make peace on the point that there is a need for improvement here. The motion doesn't invite that, but I haven't given up on that hope yet. We have had fervent and respectful discussions about this, including in committee. My group hopes that in the end we will be able to grow towards each other and treat this bill positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u123	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the authors for their detailed explanations and explanations of various points in the legislative proposal that lived in this Chamber. To sum up, I have signed my motion for a reason, because I am concerned that we are not putting the socially valid view of matrimonial property sufficiently into this new legislative proposal. I would like to invite the Minister to make this motion in order to look more broadly and more closely at the representativeness of the investigations surrounding it. 70% of people are married in the community of goods and it has not yet become to me what improvement is desired in this bill for those 70% of people who marry in the community of goods. That is what our opinions on this evening continue to differ. I sincerely thank the authors for the effort they have made, but I think we will continue to talk alongside each other. It is good to say that the Christian Union Group really thinks that this bill complicates the situation and that there is no freedom of choice. That was the hand-out that was done in the Lower House, but we also continue to disagree. I believe that freedom of choice is being restricted. We could find each other if steps were taken to keep the overall legal community of goods possible without going past the notary. To return to Mr Backer's comment on War and Peace, I think that is the key to peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u124	Mr. Chairman. The SP's concerns about feasibility, legal certainty and the legal system have not been addressed by the initiators and the Minister. That is why I tabled the motion with Mr Van Rij asking the government, after consulting the initiators, to examine the possibility of incorporating the current initiative proposal into a new legislative proposal, taking into account the concerns and concerns expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u125	Mr. Chairman. I applied for two minutes, but that was before this motion was on the table. I would actually like to buy a few minutes, subject to the rule that it should be within half the speaking time in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u126	Are you serious or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u127	Yes. I always am.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u128	I thought it might be a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u129	No, it's a serious subject and it deserves serious attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u130	Is five minutes okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u131	Fine. I know you'll correct me differently. I'll start with the motion. This one surprises me somewhat. I also don't quite understand what the meaning of it is and what is actually being asked. There is an objection to a legislative proposal and for that reason, if I read it correctly, it must be kept indefinitely. Then the government must take the initiative and come up with a more comprehensive bill. I find this a difficult course of action. We have a normal decision-making process here and I wonder why we can't just follow this. I am afraid that we will perhaps hear about this problem again in a number of years' time. Maybe it'll get a little longer. I don't think there's any need to deal with it like this. It demands something from the government. The Minister will no doubt reply to it, although I think he will remember that in the first period of time he answered the question of whether he would like to address other points as well, that we cannot expect him to do so with his present missionary status. That's a fair answer. I imagine he's gonna say that again. It is also strange how the initiators get involved with their initiative. Although I am not in the Lower House, I think I know that there is the rule that everyone else stays away from an initiative. It belongs to the initiators. I'm very curious how they're going to do this. As far as we are concerned, it is not a good motion and I am sure we will not vote in favour of it either. More generally, I think that tonight all the arguments have been mentioned and exchanged and that there is not much news left to add. The problem remains, of course, that everyone weighs those arguments differently and places a different specific weight on those arguments. That creates all sorts of uncertainties. They've been expressed here, too. However, there are also a few certainties. First of all, if we leave everything to the old, half of the inheritance continues to go to the ex, half of the donations continue to go to the ex and the woman remains exposed to all kinds of unexpected debts. It saves a lot if they're college or play debts, but they have to be paid. I don't think that's a good thing. It is also certain that large parts of real estate are fixed in public registers. So there can be no misunderstanding about that. Exclusion clauses now work well in implementation and do not give the problems outlined here. The boxes full of receipts that are mentioned are in themselves fun and also funny. I've also been laughing hard at the jokes of the SGP. I really liked them and I'd really like to hear them more. However, it is not real. That's why they're jokes and they're so much fun. They make a caricature of reality. Compliment, Mr Van Dijk, keep up the good work. Finally, there is one certainty. I can't offer any more certainty. However, this seems to me to be sufficient. Personal and family law is very problematic and depends above all on the behaviour of the spouses or former spouses. This is hard to get into rules. There's a lot of emotion. So let's do this, I think we did this piece by piece, bite by bite, in small chunks at once. After that, let's see if there are any more problems asking for a settlement. There are still a number of things in the pipeline that will be joining us soon. So we can still get to work for now. Let us, above all, do this one by one, and let us not strive for a large law in which all possible marital problems are finally resolved. Mr President, thank you for the extra time. I hope I spent it meaningfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u132	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their detailed answers. At this stage of the debate, the following points are of great importance to us. Firstly, the amendment to the first letter of amendment, to which I have already referred in detail, is, in my group's view, an unnecessary and potentially detrimental breach of the principles of this legislative proposal. I am referring here to the consequences of this change in the event of the bankruptcy of one of the spouses. Secondly, as Mrs Swinkels herself put it this evening, the proposed system is less simple than the current system. So in my words 'less simple' or in Mr Backer's words 'less clear'. Both Mrs Swinkels and Mr Backer are opposed to the justice they see in the proposed system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u133	I object to this. You have now shown me twice and summarized my whole speech as 'less clear'. I'm a little shorthanded about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u134	Okay, I even heard the word "unclear." I thought Mr Backer would have met with that word, which I thought was a slip of the tongue, not to use here. I have added the text of the speech and indeed used it consciously. I think there is a point of principle. I note that both Mrs Swinkels and Mr Backer use this in contrast to the word 'justice', in the sense of the justice they see in the proposed system. Then I say, and I will take care of that: as if the lack of clarity of the basic system of matrimonial property law is not a form of injustice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u135	We should not repeat the debate. I just want to make it clear that it should not be reduced to a word, because then you will be failing my contribution. I hope that we can get closer to each other on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u136	Nor was it my intention to summarize Mr Backer's contribution. I have heard it quite deliberately use a word that is contrary to the word 'justice', which is the same contradiction I encountered with Mrs Swinkels. I then ask the rhetorical question: as if complexity or even confusion of the basic system of matrimonial property law is not a form of injustice. If it makes us feel any better tonight... In order to ensure that it may seem as if I am the only one who is fluttering it here tonight, I would point out that Mr Van Oosten himself said at some point tonight: now we are having a bit of a flurry. Yeah, that's what it does to us at certain times. So what does that mean for the many Dutch people who have a less good starting point to assess this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u137	I would not like to add to the controversy on this point, but I would like to say something about the fluttering. You are raising a complex case position on the Bankruptcy Act. It is a complex matter, but I do not see how it has been explained by Mr Recourt in two instances and later by Mr Van Oosten. So it doesn't bother me. I'd say if you're dizzy, fine, but don't speak on behalf of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u138	Although I did not quote him with the word "dizzling," I understand that Mr Backer still needs to go into that. Mr Van Oosten's statement that we are equally confused did not refer to that very technical debate about the bankruptcy situation and that undivided share in the simple community in the absence of the letter of amendment, which was a small debate between myself and Mr Recourt. In my view, Mr Van Oosten has used the phrase 'we're here for a moment' in a different context. It is indeed a good thing that we do not catch each other on that, but I think that in practice many people are going to get dizzy. That probably doesn't even happen, because a lot of people don't deal with it in advance and they don't worry about it in advance. A lot of people won't think in advance: what if, what if? However, if an unforeseen situation such as a divorce occurs, it may prove to them that it is divisive or that the system proposed in the legislative proposal has unintended effects. This brings me to my third point: that most people will not make a state of application at the start of the marriage and will not have kept records during the marriage. Mr Recourt argued that as the marriage has lasted longer, it is less important that it has been kept up to date. The question is, however, whether many people who are involved in divorce will reason as rationally as Mr Recourt does quite understandably. The PvdA Group fears that this bill will give more incentives for the dissolution of the marriage, even after years of marriage, to say that everything has remained private or to dispute that everything has remained private on the side of the other spouse. In doing so, we fear that this bill will lead to more conflicts and divorces. Fourthly, I would like to highlight an important benefit for my group from this proposal. That advantage lies in the case of, above all, unknown premarital debts with one of the spouses. However, the question is whether this is enough for us to support this bill. As I indicated in my contribution in the first period, the final assessment of this legislative proposal will be about whether the proposed new basic system for most married persons actually, in practice, has more advantages than disadvantages compared to the basic system of the general community of goods currently in force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u139	Do you think about your time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u140	I'm on my last sentence. We will discuss this at our group meeting next Tuesday. The same applies to the motion tabled by Mr Wezel and Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u141	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the authors and the Minister for the answers and the explanations. They did so in a very passionate and honest way. I have already made it quite clear in the first term that I find it difficult to appreciate the substance of the legislative proposal in a positive way. In my view, the proposal considers marriage too much as a business contract. And if things are going to work out differently than expected, you need to be able to break up again without too much tears. Then I find Benjamin Franklin's advice, an American politician who also knew a lot about electricity, much wiser. He said keep your eyes wide open before marriage, then close them halfway. Focused on this bill: before marriage, you need to know what it is like to have each other, but during marriage, you shouldn't want to recalculate each other, as far as you can. I foresee many practical objections. In my view, the idea that a couple will keep records of this kind that will allow this bill to fly has a rather theoretical content. I suspect that the handling of a lot of divorces and inheritances under this bill will be quite complicated. I fear Brexit-like situations at family level. By the way, I'm sorry for this touch of populism. I still have to get used to the campaign being over. Forgive me! I would like to respond to the Minister's comment on the avoidance of inheritance tax. He is absolutely right when he says that tax shortcuts will always be crafted, but my concern, as Mr Van Rij put it, is that this bill stimulates that craftsmanship once again. In addition, I find it strange, to say the least, that the proposers did not really want to offer freedom of choice by introducing a choice system, so that there is really something to choose without having to go to the notary. In conclusion, the SGP cannot accept the present legislative proposal. We support the motion of the SP and the CDA under letter I, with the following remark. If a revised bill comes back here that is a little too similar to what is now before us, then we shall vote against it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u142	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister for their excellent response. The words "complex" and "unclear" have already been mentioned here several times. I would point out that our society has become complex and unclear. People divorce and then get married again. They're creating composite families. They are also called "patchwork families." Both partners may have had a lifetime before making a new commitment to another. People are more individuals. They also remain individuals after they have entered a marriage. These are all developments which require us to consider whether it is not outdated that we still have the standard starting point that the whole past passes into the estate of the new legal community. Of course, even after the adoption of this bill, people can opt for the latter. I would like to point out to Mrs Bikker that freedom of choice will not be restricted. It's just about turning the starting point. We need to keep an eye on that here. The question is which point of departure is best suited to this time of year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u143	People who don't have to go to the notary now have to go to the notary. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u144	Yes. The other way around, people who choose the limited community now have to go to the notary. The question is, of course, what fits in with what most people would want. We've heard about all kinds of research and the needs that exist. The question is, how do you appreciate these investigations? Even though most of it goes automatically for the overall community of goods, that does not mean that they are always conscious choices and that most people want it most. I dare to cite myself as an example here. I don't regret it, but if I'd given it a lot of thought, I might as well have made another choice. I wouldn't have been disgruntled with the other system. I think this applies to a lot of people. We need to think about that. There is also another point that I have heard several times here. It leads to a lot of uncertainty, but when I hear the criticism here, it also seems to lead to less protection. In my view, the initiators have convincingly indicated that in many cases it leads to greater protection. In that sense, too, I would find it a step forward. We believe that this bill is better suited to the present time. Does it solve all the problems that already exist? No. Questions have been asked about bankruptcies and tax situations. This bill will not solve the problems. The question is whether you should necessarily assess this bill on that point. Now we just want a final solution that meets all the problems we have? Or do we confine ourselves to reversing the starting point? We have noted that there are other problems, but they can always be solved. Mr Schouwenaar of the VVD has indicated that there are several legislative proposals. They're all being arrested. Let us continue to press from the First Chamber to ensure that this is actually regulated, but I suggest that we do not have all of this printed on this bill. There is one more point that I have drawn attention to and which is not separate from this legislative proposal: people need to be well informed about the new situation when the legislative proposal is adopted. Information must be rapid and adequate and reach everyone. We'll talk to the Minister about that. That's what promises have been made about. Mr. Backer ended with War and Peace. Then I have to think of all kinds of marriage problems that can arise, war, then peace and then war again. On this spring's day we still have to observe that many marriages are stranded. My group sees this as a recommendation not to let this bill go down, because many people will be able to make good use of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Strik. I'll take a look at the initiators and the minister. Do you need five minutes of consultation or are you able to answer directly? That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u146	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first and second term contributions. We have, of course, taken note of the motion. Our response will be brief. I would like to comment on Mrs Beuving's question about the housing that falls into the community if there is bankruptcy. I agree with Mrs Beuving: if there is only a claim on the private debt, then if you withdraw the letter of amendment, the partner can retain half the property. This will be different if there is also a claim on the community. Then that will not be the case. We are prepared to explain this in writing if there is any need for it, but this is for now the short response. With regard to the follow-up, I would like to say the following. Once again, we have heard very well that part of the Chamber is experiencing problems. We find the motion remarkable in itself, because it does not ask us to come up with a novelle or anything like that. She's asking the government something. That's a remarkable style figure. For the rest, of course, it is up to the Court of Justice, including that remark, because one remark is the only thing we can make. After this debate, we shall proceed in consultation and I wish you much wisdom. In itself, we have no instruments to do anything other than call on the Chamber not to support that motion. Don't! Here's to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u147	It is not quite clear to me, because you say: we go in consultation. Are we going to be told what the outcome of this consultation has been?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u148	That will not be possible in a formal way, because the votes are scheduled for next Tuesday. Then there is no reopening of the debate or anything like that. In an informal way, of course, we will let you know through the party lines, but I do not see how we can make our position known in a formal manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u149	There's something you're being asked to do. Then we get curious whether you are going to implement it and if so how.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u150	We cannot therefore implement this, because the motion calls on the government to do so. That's not a question to us. Of course, we find it an uncomfortable motion, and that's an understatement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u151	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Swinkels still? No. Mr Van Oosten still? No, I didn't. Finally, I will give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u153	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with the motion tabled. The operative part consists, first of all, of an assignment to your Chamber itself, which your Chamber itself must decide on. It then also contains a request to the government. I also pointed out in the first period that it is not very common for a outgoing cabinet to start with far-reaching legislative proposals or to prepare them. So I would actually like to ask the Chamber, after it has decided on the first part of the motion, because I am not going to vote in the Chamber or vote in the Chamber, to hold the motion until there is a missionary cabinet. After all, it is on that cabinet's way to come up with far-reaching new legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u155	I'm here to deal with the bill. I hardly have to ask the question, but ask him: does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next Tuesday on the legislative proposal and also vote on the motion tabled next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-21-eerstekamer-10.u156	I will close the sitting, but not after I wish Mrs Swinkels and Mr Recourt a very successful future. For both of them, membership of the Lower House ends tomorrow. I wish you every success and I very much appreciate your strong support for this initiative proposal today. Mr Van Oosten continues in the Lower House. I also wish him every success there, but we will see him at the Binnenhof. However, I wish you both all the best.
