ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I call Mr Omtzigt of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u2	Mr. Chairman. I hear someone sighing in the room: ten minutes. That would be too much. We are dealing here with the budgetary discharge. In any normal business, discharge at the annual meeting is the central moment when it is checked whether the government, the company or the institution has done what was intended. If I hadn't "hammed" this bill, it would've been a hammer piece. That shows a little bit of how our democracy works. You can appeal to politicians every day and even wake them up in the middle of the night to indicate what plan, what test balloon you have. But when it comes to checking things that have been done at the end of the year, ten minutes are a bit on the long side. It can be done in two minutes, I hear to my right. That's right, but then we're gonna do the Millions Note in two minutes. But no one here is gonna imagine that. I am very pleased that the Secretary of State for Finance is here today, because there are some matters concerning the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, and especially the Tax Administration, which deserve further attention. There are three points I should like to make in my speech. The first is the redundancy scheme, for which expenditure has been incurred, the legality of which has not yet been established. The second point is tax management at the Tax Administration. Is the Tax Administration itself capable of properly calculating and paying its taxes? The answer to that is: the Tax Administration still has a bit of a problem with that. With my third point, I would like to talk in general about the situation in the Netherlands with regard to the culture of annual reports. I know it is a very boring subject, but in a market economy it is an extremely important subject. The first point therefore concerns the redundancy scheme. As you know, people from the Tax Administration could leave with a redundancy premium of €75,000 or a whole year's salary, which is sometimes even higher. It was not only people who worked in the Tax Administration and whose job would disappear, but also people whose job would not disappear. People working at the FIOD or customs could also make use of it. However, FIOD and customs were not affected at all by the reorganisation. In other words, people were allowed to leave with a redundancy bonus, while their work did not disappear. Everyone knows about the customs situation in the port of Rotterdam, or about the delay in the FIOD investigation. We also know that the departure of some 300 highly qualified staff with an exit premium has had very negative consequences for customs and the FIOD. This departure premium is also not a priori lawful, because under the General Government officials' regulations you can only leave with the so-called braking scheme if you either lose your job yourself...................................................................................................................................................................................... That is the so-called braking regulation. So, what's next? Of the 300 people who have left, four functions are: I repeat: four functions are filled by someone whose job would otherwise have disappeared. What does the General Court say and what does the Joustra report say? You can set up chains. If someone leaves here, his or her job may be filled by someone else and his or her job again by someone else and his or her job again by someone else, until you come out with someone else who would have lost his or her job. Only if you can find such a chain for each of the people who left, is the release legitimate. We have received answers today from the Secretary of State and it has shown that these chains are not yet available, but that he hopes that customs will find a large number of these chains. This means that today we cannot determine whether the expenditure was effective, no, it was not effective, but whether it was lawful. The first commitment I am asking for here is whether the government is prepared to re-inquire the Chamber on the Navy's note around 1 December as to whether or not this expenditure is lawful, so that we do not have to establish it now. If we were to establish this now, we would not be able to establish the legality and therefore find that it is unlawful. Then I come to the second point: the taxes that the Tax Administration itself has to pay. The training deduction showed that the Tax Administration had unlawfully applied it to itself. The tax officer who controls the Tax Administration had to impose a post-tax on the Tax Administration, because the courses that the Tax Administration staff had taken did not qualify for the training deduction. Under the redundancy scheme, the tax authority of the tax officer responsible for controlling the tax administration received a post-tax of approximately 170 million because it was a hidden VRS scheme, and then you have to pay a post-tax. The report of the Audit Service Rijk reveals a third problem. The Treasury doesn't know how much profit tax it has to pay to the tax authorities. Since 1 January 2016, public companies are also subject to tax on those items that can also be done in the market. Then one can think of debt collection and bailiffs. You can have the IRS do that, and you can let the market do that. We have already asked for the extent to which the public authorities are affected in the process of examining the legislative proposal. That was all in the picture, that would all go well. And what does it turn out to be? The IRS doesn't know how much tax he's paying himself. You can say: what does it matter; this is a tax that the Tax Administration has to pay to itself on the chapter of taxes, so financially it doesn't matter. That is true, but beware: all other local authorities must pay this tax. If, with all the knowledge he has, the Tax Administration itself is not able to determine what he has to pay tax on, how can he expect other taxpayers to understand the same tax legislation? That is why I ask for a second commitment from the Secretary of State, in line with what the Joustra/Borstlap Committee has established, namely that the tax administration of the Tax Administration itself is not 100% in order. Does the Secretary of State wish to report back on how these problems have been resolved or dealt with in the next six months' report? That last point is important because it affects not only the Tax Administration, but also all the other local authorities that run a marina, or waste disposal or public transport. Local authorities sometimes do that, although they generally do not make much profit. The third point concerns the annual reports. We have the Financial Report of the Empire, which has arrived in time, with the approval of the National Audit Service. But there is a problem in the Netherlands, namely that in many municipalities the annual report is not ready in time and has not been approved by an accountant. Many hospitals have had an annual report with reservations for years, mainly because the settlement in the Health Insurance Act is not done in time, so they do not know what they still have. The Parliamentary mini-survey showed very clearly that a lot of companies no longer deposit their annual report in good time. We do not know at all how many companies there are, because the Chamber of Commerce is not being audited. In a functional market economy, I hope that the Dutch economy is a well-accounted-for economy, annual reports are available in good time and publicly available in good time. Otherwise it will become a mess financially and may develop problems that only come out years later with a huge "fright." Now there's also a problem with accountants, but I can't deal with that in my ten minutes. I therefore ask the Secretary of State for a third commitment. The economic investigation service no longer exists, because it has been incorporated into the FIOD. In fact, no one checks whether you're making a timely deposit, let alone that you'll ever get a fine for it if you don't. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the government itself will check with the Chamber of Commerce, the municipalities, the hospitals and other places where the annual accounts have not been established in time, as with the health insurance companies, why this is so and how we can improve it? After all, when financial statements are no longer transparent, it becomes a mess. Is the government prepared to do so and present a plan of action for this in the coming autumn to show how the annual accounts can be better published? So much for the annual report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u3	Mr. Chairman. If we want to judge the content, it is important that we receive timely information. What strikes me is that we did ask for it, but we didn't get it. This is mainly about the replay... brake controls. Difficult words I always try to avoid, Mr. Chairman. If you use them, you'll trip over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u4	I know all about it, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u5	What I'm trying to say is that it looks like it's procedural. It seems that someone is paying attention to the procedure, but if we do not have a clear picture of the procedures and if we do not get the information in time, then we cannot exercise our control function. It is precisely this control function that checks that things are right and that they are right that is so important to this Parliament. I would therefore like to support Mr Omtzigt because he has done so. I am not thinking so much of his substantive points, although I also support them, but above all of the appeal to this Secretary of State to improve them in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u6	The Secretary of State can answer immediately. I shall give him the floor to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u7	Mr. Chairman. I am always grateful for the attention paid to the implementation. After all, it is the implementation that is sometimes tough, but always very important. That is what ultimately matters. We're talking about braking control. It has been discussed several times. Earlier I pointed out that I did not consider this addition to an already undesirable and never ordered departure scheme to be desirable either. But she turned out to be there. The regulation itself is already very open and unbiased, and Mr Omtzigt has a point to make. In a variety of ways, this regulation offers room without actually being clear how much space it offers. Mr Omtzigt asks how big you can actually make the chains. For example, the braking system refers to a "one" task. Yeah, what are we talking about? The deadline is unclear. Also, it is not clear whose seat needs to be occupied somewhere in the chain. There are still several things to say about that. I'm never such a huge fan of arrangements where you actually don't know what's in it. The technique is clear; it is indeed about the chains. That's what all kinds of clauses are for. I can try to say it with some precision, but it remains that there is a fairly unbiased arrangement. Right now, we can say that there are four work-to-work candidates. Mr Omtzigt spoke of four, but I think there are now five, but this is totally immaterial. Of course, this isn't what the view should be. There are still 130 internal streamers. We must now look at which of these internal streamers leave an empty chair. That is also a criterion that contributes to the task, not only a work-to-work candidate but also someone who leaves an empty chair. That has second-order effects: who will take that chair again? That's how an entire chain comes after it. Moreover, FIOD and Customs are still recruiting. Again, there can be both work-to-work candidates, and people who leave a chair empty, or people who give a third- or fourth-order effect. In the end, therefore, there are a lot of possibilities to complete the scheme, precisely because it is relatively unbiased. In the long run it's not impossible to get this done, but I've also literally said that I have a hard head in it. The IRS is making a very serious and very brave attempt, but I can't make it much more beautiful than that. I'll come back to legality later. Since this is a regulation which seeks to define the limits of what this law is about, I should like to say that I will return to it in the half-yearly report in October or to the Autumn note and report where we stand. I would like to say a few words about this: this is a slightly different undertaking than Mr Omtzigt calls it. I hope to reassure him and to convince him with the following: it is now legitimate and cannot become unlawful with retroactive effect, and I embrace the substance of the matter that has to be dealt with. That is also my commitment. The legality is just subtlely different from what I said last time, after checking with other connoisseurs. What is addressed in the Final Act is not unlawful in itself. That law is about mutations in relation to the Navy Note. There are no unlawful mutations in it. So there are no unlawful elements in the final act we are talking about, but you can attach further importance to the final act and say that it is actually a bit about the integrity and legality of the entire financial statements. That, I think, is what Mr Omtzigt intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u8	In the way in which the Chamber operates, the final law always goes together with the discharge. There are no unlawful acts in the final act itself. Also because the Secretary of State has reported a number of cases in good time, this has been done neatly in the Finance budget this year. It's about the discharge. This is not about efficiency, because I think we agree that it was not great on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u9	We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u10	It's about whether it's legally spent. We cannot see that, although we would like to vote this evening on a motion that grants discharge to the entire state budget. In order not to delay this discharge, I sought a commitment that the Secretary of State will return to the question of whether it was lawful in the autumn. That may indeed be the case with the six-month report or with the Navy's note. So we do not need to establish whether it was legitimate, because I do not think we can determine it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u11	Mr Omtzigt's intention is perfectly clear to me, but I am going to try to reassure him. Yes, the promise is that I will return to that, but no, it is not true that we cannot now establish whether it is lawful. You can do that again. Payments have been made to candidates who were entitled to the compensation. That makes the publication legitimate in itself. The application of the braking system was also found to be legitimate by the General Court on the basis of the findings of the ADR. It's a bit economical: "to the letter of the ARAR lawfully." I'll separate the spirit and the letter here. I have already said what I think of the arrangement; that was the spirit. Here's the letter. This means that not only is this now found to be legitimate, but it also holds that judgment. That judgment doesn't change. We may eventually be dissatisfied with the way those chains are then closed down. There could be doubts as to whether the original objective has been met. That doesn't make it illegal. It makes it possible to make it even more inefficient, it makes it politically undesirable or it gives us a great reason to take a good look at this paragraph in the ARAR. I said it's quite a job, though. It was undesirable. I would very much like to come back to it, either in the half-yearly report or in the Autumn note, because I agree with Mr Omtzig in spirit that we need to come back to this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u12	Then I would like to ask the Court of Auditors, through you, to give a further explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u13	Can you talk a little louder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u14	I would like to ask the Court of Auditors, through you, to explain whether this can now be qualified as legitimate. There's really a difference of opinion here. In my view, the Court of Auditors says that it is only properly applied that 'just apply' is the legality test if those chains can be formed. That cannot be demonstrated now, but it may be demonstrated in the future. I would like you to take up this point, that we do not have to stop the legality now, with the Court of Auditors, otherwise we will have a very long debate here in which things go side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u15	I'm not convinced that things go side by side. We don't agree. The ARK has given an opinion on this, namely that it is lawful according to the letter of the ARAR. It is not for me to make requests to the Court of Auditors. I think that might be up to the Chamber in this case. I take a close look at those who interact with the ARK every now and then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u16	I have here the piece of the ARK. I read: "Another question was whether the braking system (Article 49xx of the ARAR) was correctly applied to Customs and FIOD employees. There was no direct placement of a remplaced person. We note that the ARAR does not set a time limit at which a remplaced person must take the place of a remplaçant. Assuming that this does happen at some point, application of this article seems possible for Customs and FIOD staff." However, there is a very large "if" if we assume that this is happening. That "if" cannot be demonstrated at this time because time is not limited, according to the literal explanation. Then we now have to assume that it will happen, when it only happened at 5 out of 300.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u17	No, the General Court says this seems possible. He does not draw the conclusion that it seems legitimate, but that it is legitimate. That judgment doesn't change. It may well be that you have to conclude that it has not been possible, that objectives have not been achieved or, I say again, that there might be a reason to look at this paragraph in the ARAR. I get the information from the back of the Chamber that we can ask the Court of Auditors for an explanation of the promised half-yearly report. Shall we do it like this? Then the Court of Auditors again explains what he means by this somewhat cryptic phrase. In my lecture, "it seems" refers to closing the chains, but "it is" is the rightful character. So we'll see this again. Then we'll have this discussion, if we have to have it, at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u18	I'll take a look at Mr. Omtzigt. He nods, so it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u19	Mr Omtzigt spoke about the tax control of the Tax Administration as a taxable person. He actually said that the Tax Administration did I hear him use the word "knowledge"? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not it here. The examples from which they are drawn have nothing to do with all three. The Tax Administration was well aware of the legislation on training deductions. I am not saying that it is necessarily better, but the Tax Administration knows this legislation very well, but it turned out that the administration itself was not in order. That's no better, but it's not about knowledge. That's what I'm saying. I want to make it clear here that the Tax Administration is an organization where the law would not be known at work level. We have seen that supporting processes are messy over the past year. Unfortunately, we have also noticed that this has been going on for a long time. So it's not good, it's clear. But I want to free the professionals at the IRS from this suspicion. There is something similar about the tax on profits. All kinds of new taxpayers have joined, including the Tax Administration itself. It is then perfectly common to determine the tax position for all different activities. This has also been largely done by the Tax Administration for its own activities. There are a few more where the interpretation is still running. That's not abnormal at all. This is a very common procedure for many new taxpayers, including in the public domain. That explanation may also have to do with, for example, the search for facts and circumstances. And the inspector sometimes has to judge in complex cases. That's not weird, but that's not due to the inspector's lack of knowledge. I think this is related to fiscal control. That's what we're talking about. It's allowed under that title. That's what's going on, that's what's being put in order. I can imagine that in the six-month report, too, I would say something about this. At the time, we considered that to be an important point. There is some improvement, but I think it is good to account for the extent to which this progress has been made in the next half-year report. At the end of Mr Omtzigt's speech, the scope of his words is clearly widening and the language is becoming more serious. "The demise of the market economy." I dare say that this does not have such a relationship with the final law or with the department's financial statements or the discharge. I'm struggling with this a little bit. I know the point, but primarily the Minister of V and J deals with accounting law in the Civil Code. Secondary concerns the Minister for Economic Affairs about the obligation to deposit, but also about the enforcement plan, an arrangement behind it. Tertiary, you could still call on directors in these sectors to do something about it. The only one who can actually do relatively little with that is me. That's kind of sad, too. I would therefore ask Mr Omtzigt to focus the instruments he has as a representative of the people on precisely what is at stake and not to choose the final Finance Act, but at a time when we are talking about accounting law. He can also ask written questions about it, something I have never found Mr Omtzigt ashamed of. In short, it is not quite the place and time here. And I can't do so much with it. Without saying anything wrong about the call, I must say that there is some recognition, but I can't do much with this now. I cannot make such a commitment because I have no instrument in my hands to do anything about it. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u20	I give Mr Omtzig the opportunity for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u21	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answers. I await with interest what is in the six-month report. I would just add, before the Acts, that this means for the CDA that we can only then and also after the Court of Auditors' judgment decide whether we can regard that piece as legitimate, not the rest of the budget. Subject to that reservation, we can then agree. Then we'll see about that in the six-month report. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for the commitment to tax control of the Tax Administration. That's what we've been talking about before. It is precisely with the role of example that this is important and it is also good that the Secretary of State should come back to it and consider it important. When I asked for this debate, I said I wanted the Minister of Finance with me. Then perhaps the issue of financial statements would have been even more appropriate. But I fully understand his absence, because he is currently at the G20 in Germany. He told me yesterday that he is at the G7, at the G4 and all kinds of other very nice consultation clubs. So I have every sympathy for that. However, I shall table the next motion because a motion in itself is not only addressed to the Secretary of State. A motion calls on the government to do something. So it can be invested in the right place in the government. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major problems with timely and complete audit reports in many sectors such as municipalities and hospitals;]] [[noting that many companies do not deposit and publish their annual reports in good time through the Chamber of Commerce;]] [[considers that it is of the utmost importance that annual reports are available, approved and published in good time;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of why annual reports are not published in good time and to come up with a plan to improve the annual report significantly;]] [[Invites the Government to forward this plan to the Chamber before 1 November 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34725-IX-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u22	Mr. Chairman. I have here only too lightly judged judgments on offer. I'm not doing the motion justice with that. I think colleagues other than myself should be required to give an opinion on this. I'll see who they are later, but I can't judge this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u23	I understand that, given the earlier argument. I would ask the government to do this. I understand if it doesn't work out for the votes, but if the government thinks this is a good idea, I can imagine her reporting that it is a good idea. It may therefore consider taking over the motion or starting implementation before the recess is terminated. After all, the recess is not a holiday. Otherwise, we'd be losing two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u24	The suggestion has probably been heard, but if we want to do justice to the motion, I think it would be wise for the motion to be held until a later vote, until colleagues have been able to think wisely about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u25	What are you going to do, Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u26	I'm holding the motion at the moment, but the suggestion is well heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-37.u27	At the request of Mr Omtzigt, I propose his motion (34725-IX, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
