ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u1	Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for Housing and National Service. I call Mr Albert de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The main objective of the Quality Assurance for Building Act is to increase the quality of buildings. The name quality assurance already says that. More quality is also needed, because there is still too much error in construction practice and that costs billions. The Labour Party is particularly pleased that the original idea, in our view an idea of a blunt privatisation operation, has been turned into a legislative proposal aimed at increasing consumer legal protection. Legal protection is regulated in the legislative proposal by strengthening the contractor's liability, but that can be even more robust as far as we are concerned. In any case, such liability should also cover fully licence-free construction works. Can the Minister confirm that this is also his intention and can he indicate exactly how this is enshrined in the legislative proposal? In the case of the Labour Party, the contractor's liability must be accompanied by the guarantee or guarantee that the owner and the user of construction works are fully relieved if there are any defects during a wide warranty period. If mistakes are made, it must be ensured that the contractor is also affected. He should actually feel it in his wallet. Does the Minister think that this incentive is sufficiently embedded in the bill? Finally, the Labour Party also wants this law to contribute to making construction works cheaper. Cheaper can be done by reducing the number of building errors. Cheaper can also be achieved through standardisation and industrialisation. The Quality Assurance Act must be the starting point and incentive for this. How does the Minister intend to promote this? At the moment there is still a lot of error on the construction site. We all know the examples: roofs that leak, sturdy facades that turn green or dirty, windows that rot, construction faults, tearing, insulation that doesn't work, cold bridges, sloppy finishes, color differences, health problems, ventilation systems that work badly, an EPC of 0.5 that in practice doesn't go beyond 0.8 and zero-on-the-meter houses that still lead to a high energy bill. It is now the case that if the contractor presents itself with a previously hidden defect after delivery, it is only required to recover it if the contractor makes it plausible that that defect is caused by a deficiency which can be attributed to the contractor. The burden of proof, therefore, lies entirely with the victim in the current system rather than with the offender. This leads to a lot of trickery before it is recognized that a mistake has been made and then trickery about who is responsible: the contractor, the subcontractors, the architect, the client, the client himself or his supervisor, the inspector of construction and housing control, the supplier of construction products or who else you can think of that is involved in the process. Restoration is usually arranged in the end, but often with a lot of hassle and not always free of charge. The consumer has usually spent a lot of money to get his right, and he does not get that money back. We really need to get rid of that. The Labour Party wants it to be absolutely clear on whose behalf an error must be corrected. In our proposal this is always the contractor, being either the producer or the supplier of the building. He decides whether he can make a work according to the requested design and specifications. He decides who he uses for this and he also decides which materials he uses. He determines which changes and instructions he can and cannot accept during construction. If a contractor can't make a mistake, he shouldn't take it. In addition to hands, the contractor has to deliver brains. The general rule that the contractor is fully liable may, as far as we are concerned, be waived with the agreement of the client, but only with regard to the professional client. In our view, the non-professional clients are not only natural persons, but can also be small companies and sometimes also large companies, institutions or governments, for example clients who have a specific building built once, such as a company building, a bridge, a hospital, a theatre or something like that. When is a client professional? How does the Minister feel about that? Really professional clients could opt for other agreements on liability, if they still want to exercise influence during the work, in other words, if they want to work in direction. We also understand that full liability for very specific constructions, highly innovative designs and/or complex installations is not reasonable. In the view of the Labour Party, the contractor must then stand down and accept the contract only if other agreements on liability can be reached by mutual agreement. Such agreements must, however, clearly specify how liability between the parties is to be governed, because even in the event of non-conformity or defects, it must be clear within what period and on whose behalf recovery is to be arranged, so that the user receives the quality he is entitled to. Because it is difficult to determine precisely when a client can be classified as professional, we suggest that the contractor is always fully liable, unless the client is willing to make other arrangements. We have tabled an amendment to tighten up liability and to lay down the exception mentioned for clients. The Labour Party is very surprised at the position of Building The Netherlands. That organization is afraid of the increased liability. She has lobbied against this law and wants to preserve the current situation. Building the Netherlands only wants to go for a while in the bill if it really has to be for natural persons as clients. The Labour Party really thinks that's unbelievable. Doesn't Building Holland stand for the quality of its members? Is it really so bad with our construction companies that Building the Netherlands fears the liability that the Minister intends and which we want to tighten even further? How could it be that the smaller contractors, united in the Dutch Federation of Contractors (ANFL), were killed when it appeared that they would not be covered by this law in the first stage of implementation? Why are the suppliers of construction products, united in the Dutch Confederation for Construction (NVTB), strongly in favour of this law, just like large organisations such as NEPROM and Aedes? It is precisely in the larger works that the most money is spent and a mistake often also means a big damage. Building the Netherlands should take up the incentive provided by the law and ensure that quality increases among its members and reduces the number of errors. It should ensure that there is more standardized and industrialised in construction. She should ensure that her members invest to deliver real quality at a lower price. If Building Netherlands really cares about the building quality in the Netherlands, it would make a fist and make sure that the tender of work changes so that it can make a good risk analysis with its expertise before registering at a work. We find it very remarkable that, in view of the amendment tabled, the CDA has apparently fallen in favour of the Building Netherlands lobby. We know, of course, that there are lines, but the question is whether this is not very obvious. The Labour Party would prefer to ensure that liability is accompanied by an adequate guarantee or guarantee. That was also the thrust of the motion that Mr Paulus Jansen and I tabled in 2014 and which received broad support in the Chamber. The Minister doesn't want to carry out this motion. Instead, he opts for an information obligation for the contractor. It must provide information on the way in which it has arranged for the obligations towards the client to be fulfilled after a possible bankruptcy. He must also provide information on whether and, if so, how he has been insured in the event that he is called upon during the warranty period to recover defects attributable to him. In the letter of amendment, the Minister defined that obligation even more clearly. We regret that there is no compulsory insurance or guarantee in the law. The current regulations, BouwGarant, SWK and Woningborg, offer only part of the solutions. We are in favour of a "first party" insurance linked to the construction project for new construction and conversion. That is an insurance which the person who, at the time of discovering a defect, owns the building, can rely on. The insurance then takes into account the interest of the owner and any interest of his tenant or user to ensure that the defect is repaired by the contractor as soon as possible, covering the costs and, where possible, recovered from the contractor. It is then an insurance policy that gives the owner and the user complete care. For us, caring means that the user of the building cannot be saddled with all the work necessary to achieve the recovery, such as issues of evidence and all the rule of physical recovery. The Labour Party would like to see a strong promotion for clients to take out their own "first party" insurance before the start of construction work. That insurance must be linked to the building and be transferred to the next owner. We have been thinking of making such an insurance compulsory in line with the motion adopted, but we think that this can also be arranged by encouraging the conclusion of such an insurance that is certain to come, so our insurance is included as a condition when obtaining a mortgage or mortgage guarantee. Another option is for insurers to include such insurance in the deposit insurance by default. Is the Minister prepared to agree that he will urge insurers to develop building-linked first party insurance and that he would like to plead with mortgage providers and the NHG provider to apply them in their terms? A user who is the client himself may choose not to insure himself, but if he sells, rents or otherwise uses his building within the warranty period, it will be different as far as the Labour Party is concerned. We ask the Minister to say that he is examining how it can be concluded that a successor owner and through that owner the possible tenant can successfully rely on the contractor's liability in the event of a default within the warranty period without having to follow lengthy procedures and without having to incur high costs. When introducing the possibility of insuring clients, we see an important additional incentive to deliver quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u3	I am trying to understand what Mr De Vries is trying to do. Is he saying that if you rent a house, you're not going to the landlord with a lack, but you're going to the contractor who built it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u4	No, it couldn't be. The tenant is dependent on the owner, so he reports to him. But we would have liked to have found out what the owner's obligations are to actually rely on the liability he has acquired from the contractor for the tenant without the need for all kinds of very complicated, lengthy and costly procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u5	Then the tenant is put in the position in which he has to enter into the contract between a builder and an owner? This is about rental right and suddenly an element of building right is added to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u6	Yes, it's also complicated, but we're talking about someone who rents, who actually notices the objections of a defect. For example, if there is no zero on the meter, the tenant pays a higher energy bill than he has been previewed and if health in the home is not guaranteed, he has health damage. We therefore believe that such a tenant should have rights which lie with the owner: he should therefore be able to appeal to that owner very easily with the aim of ultimately implementing the rights that the owner has with the contractor. This does not require lengthy legal procedures that involve a great deal of costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u7	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u8	Mr President, to reassure you: I did not intend to interrupt very long, but still... This is the right to rent: a tenant can always go to the landlord. Mr De Vries is now saying that the tenant will be given a role in that he can interfere with the contractor who once built the house. From a legal point of view, I don't understand what this is going to bring to the tenant, and I don't understand that from a practical point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u9	Then I did not explain it correctly or you did not understand it correctly; let us keep that in the middle. You are right to say that a tenant must always obtain his right from the owner, but the tenant knows that that owner can rely on the contractor's liability. We want thought to be given to it, and we will ask it by way of motion, unless the Minister agrees that he is prepared to do so, in order to ensure that the tenant is taken care of as short a route as possible through the owner. Insurers will be much more interested in reducing the number of errors and defects. They will therefore invest in quality systems for construction. However, if the insurance of contractors is arranged in such a way that the contractor who is addressed actually feels this strongly in his wallet, this will have a preventive effect. This can be achieved with substantial no-claim schemes or with a firm bonus malus scheme in the premium. We ask the Minister whether he is prepared to convince the insurers of that interest. When it is published which contractors face claims and for what mistakes and amounts this is, good contractors can distinguish themselves from clients who do less well. Then we can finally show who acts as a bun the hare or who repeatedly fails to deliver quality. Is the Minister prepared to promote a public register of the claims of construction companies? If insurance is good and adequate, we see less reason to include a 5% suspension right in the law. In particular, for small contractors, this has a significant impact on liquidity and the credit facility. We believe that a guarantee that can be used by the contractor shortly after the end of the construction may be sufficient if it appears that the contractor does not wish to remedy those defects. How's the Minister looking at this? If the changes mentioned earlier in my speech are made, the focus in the building regulations can, as far as we are concerned, almost entirely shift from permit application and construction process to the assessment of the final product after delivery. "As built," it's called in the jargon. If we make that move, the builder becomes a normal supplier of products, just like the supplier of TVs, washing machines, cars, planes and think of it. The builder then becomes a supplier of products that meets the legal requirements, the regulations and what has been agreed between the parties. That's all a consumer wants. He wants to be able to assume that what was ultimately delivered meets what he ordered and that he gets value for money. How exactly the structure was created is really less interesting for the customer. In current practice, only paper plans are checked when issuing the licence. In practice, the structure realised is virtually always different from the permit granted. It is also attractive for a contractor in current practice to cut as much as possible on the product to be delivered. The price is fixed in advance. By cutting his budget, his profits are increasing. Sometimes the contractor cuts down on measures and sometimes through cheaper processing. No one checks the impact on safety, health and sustainability. The builder is therefore hardly at risk. Only the things you see as the client of the delivery must be restored immediately. We must go to an assessment of what has actually been delivered. In order to be able to easily assess the finished product, we believe that an instrument is needed, a transfer file. In our view, this dossier should be given an essential place in the new system for authorised and licensed construction works in all cases where a contractor contract has been concluded. We therefore believe that this dossier and its demands should be firmly enshrined in the law. By means of the transfer file, the manufacturer, the supplier of the building, should be able to easily prove to the competent authority that the performance requirements of the Building Decision and other relevant regulations have been met. By doing so, he must demonstrate to the client that the agreements in the contract of adoption have been fulfilled. The Labour Party considers it necessary for the transfer file to remain linked to the structure throughout its lifetime. In the case of sales, the file will therefore be sent to the new owner, including any insurance. In the event of a subsequent agreement on the adoption of changes and adjustments, the dossier should be supplemented and amended. I would like to stress that in the case of a subsequent adoption agreement. If it's up to us, the digital copy of the transfer file will remain under government control. If the liability and the guarantees for the end user are properly regulated, we believe that quality assurance can, as in other sectors, simply be placed with the producer or supplier. It surprises the Labour Party that a liberal minister in this bill opts for so much government interference. He set up a completely new system to help business to bring quality management to a sufficient level, with instrument providers, quality assurance providers and a new independent management organisation, which should monitor quality management. We do not see the need and we consider it vulnerable. Are there sufficient quality assurance providers with sufficient knowledge? Is there sufficient investment in education in this knowledge? Is the guarantor going to work efficiently? Who controls that quality assurance and who is he employed with? What happens if it goes wrong? Despite these questions, we do not now need to amend the legislative proposal in this area of public scrutiny. We consider liability and insurability more important. So let's try it with this model. The shore will turn the ship around. The quality assurance authority does not accept any liability. The experiments carried out show that the intended goal is not being achieved: construction works are far from fully satisfactory in all cases and houses that do not comply with the legal requirements are put into service, let alone the contract. We fear that the shore will turn the ship, also because we are afraid that the new Christmas tree that is being rigged up by this system will make quality care more complex and expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u10	One of the most important aspects of this bill is the privatisation of building and housing supervision. I am a little surprised that the spokesperson of the PvdA Group will not go into this after 15 minutes, because this is one of the biggest privatisations of recent years. Construction and housing supervision is now in the municipalities, where supervision is carried out. It's being privatised. I cannot imagine, even on the basis of the lessons we have learned from the past, that the PvdA Group will agree to this, as I am thinking of building fraud and the survey on housing corporations. Am I right or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u11	I think Mr Bashir is completely wrong. I am surprised that he is now presenting this statement, because his predecessor on this dossier, Mr Paulus Jansen, agreed with the Labour Party that the big profit of this bill is that the builder will finally be truly liable and that there will be a normal supplier of products. A normal supplier of products should not be subject to government control. The supplier himself is responsible and if he makes a mistake or supplies a product that does not meet the requirements, he must be on the blisters at the end. That's the profit of this bill. In our opinion, the whole thing with quality assurance can be a little bit less. Why should we interfere with the question of how business ensures that it delivers quality when it is fully responsible for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u12	I have to take this into account: a spokesperson of the Labour Party group who is passionately in favour of privatising construction supervision. In any case, what Mr De Vries is saying is not correct. I would like to point out that my predecessor, together with the other G4 municipalities, wrote a letter to the Chamber which included a number of comments on building and housing supervision. They write that there must be guarantees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u13	I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u14	Let us look at the results of the experiments. During the experiments with this new method, the municipalities intervened several times, precisely because the private parties mainly focused on maximum profit. Mr De Vries also said this. They do not look at the quality and therefore there was a need to intervene. Isn't that an extra reason not to choose to have the butcher judge his own meat?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u15	We talk past each other, and that's too bad. The original idea behind this law was also, in our opinion, a privatisation operation. We are opposed to this, but the producer is responsible at the moment when the full responsibility for what is delivered lies with the producer. We need to introduce a few safeguards to serve public interests. I will mention it and I will also comment on the letter from the G4 because I agree with them that a number of things in this proposal are not good. Now that we finally have liability and a consumer law, should we not fall back on the word 'privatisation'? That's really not the issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u16	The spokesman of the Labour Party welcomes the greater liability of the builders. I share that view; that is a good aspect of this legislative proposal. However, we are afraid of privatising supervision. Mr De Vries obviously is, because he points out that this can lead to problems. That is why I am surprised that he says that we must continue with this. Wouldn't it be better to protect the consumer? After all, you often end up with e.g. this and subcontractors that and there can also be accidents. The balconies that fall down are a good example of this. Is it not better to instruct the Minister to get this done properly and to come up with a new bill after the elections? We should not now agree to this, but we should ask for improvement and see if this is acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u17	I share the concerns about the vulnerability of the system as it has now been introduced by experiment. However, we must realise that the results of these experiments relate to a period of two years, because you can only evaluate after such a period. I expect this system to be able to fix and prevent a number of errors, but the biggest profit is that the contractor will be fully liable and feel it in his wallet. Beun de Haas will not get another chance to tamper, because he is simply not hired anymore. We are in favour of a public register showing which builder has been called upon because he has made mistakes and to what amounts. We argue for insurance to ensure that the client is cared for when a mistake has been made. These are all impulses to improve quality. We must now shoot the ball that is on the line, also into the target. We need to add a number of safeguards to this bill to ensure that the negative aspects of the matter are properly dealt with. I shall come back to that in my further speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u18	A structure is a very complicated product. It is therefore very difficult for a customer to determine whether this is the case or not. You get into liability discussions very quickly. In addition, dangerous situations arise very quickly. I mentioned all the balconies falling down. Then you can say "you are liable," but the suffering has already been done. I'm from construction myself. I know mistakes have been made quickly, consciously or unconsciously to save costs. However, this story has another aspect. You pay for a building permit. The prices are hugely high. For a house, you pay thousands of euros in construction fee. In it there is a piece of control; the municipality has to check and you pay for it. Now another system is being rigged. There'll be insurance and inspectors, but how much will those construction lashes go down? I don't see anything about that. Because all kinds of people are hired to do so, the costs go up, but the construction legs are left alone. Why don't I hear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u19	Because I'm not at the end of my story yet. I agree with Mr Madlener more than ever. That's special. I also think that something should be done about the construction costs, but I also think that attention should be paid to the budgets of the municipalities. In the rest of my story, I'll come back to that. We agree! Surprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u21	The Labour Party is afraid that the instrument holder will want to protect his instrument and will not be inclined to cooperate and coordinate with others and that the quality assurance agency will want to earn more than the municipal official and will be inclined to control much more than is strictly necessary to prevent him from making a mistake and thereby possibly losing his job. Furthermore, it seems unlikely that there will suddenly be sufficient quality assurance staff who have all the necessary knowledge, knowledge that guarantees that they can carry out an adequate level and overall monitoring in such a way that errors are excluded. In order to ensure that costs do not rise, while not achieving the quality required, we want the legislative proposal to focus more on recognised technical applications and on risk-driven control. Recognized technical applications can prevent us from constantly checking all the frequently used applications in construction. In our vision standard applications are described once in detail by an instrument provider, including assembly, and the application is then recognised once by an expert organisation. We are thinking of an existing expert and completely independent organisation such as NEN. Upon delivery, the contractor/producer's declaration and the documentation required for the approved application shall enable it to be easily demonstrated that an application has been made in conformity with the approval. Any new invention can be proposed for recognition, so that new inventions can be applied by default. This is how we stimulate innovation. The recognized application is mentioned only in a small sentence in the explanatory memorandum and not even in a positive sense. Looks like a quality assurance officer can just ignore a statement like that. We consider that to be wrong and too thin. We call for a quick and simple route to be established in the legislative proposal or in an AMvB for recognised applications without unnecessary control by quality assurance agencies. Is the Minister prepared to do so? This commitment is crucial for us to be able to agree to the very complex system of quality assurance. The Labour Party believes that, in addition to standardisation, risk-driven control is needed to ensure that high-risk matters are given real attention and to avoid too much control. The municipalities have a role to play in this. We would like it to be compulsory to carry out a risk analysis when applying for the permit and, on that basis, the municipality can indicate in an inspection plan which risky parts require specific accountability and control by a quality assurance body and which components can be covered by an approved solution. So Mr Bashir knows exactly what the G-4 are asking for. This makes it possible to distinguish risky parts from simple and routine matters. Examples of high-risk components include complex ventilation systems, high-risk fire safety elements, foundations in specific conditions, monumental components, innovative insulation solutions, zero-on-de-meter projects, etc. You can supplement it yourself. We think we can tackle the objections of the monument communities by adding the authority for an inspection plan. Moreover, these municipalities should bear in mind that the monument permit in the new system is still necessary and that this monument permit goes for the other technical requirements of the Building Decree if and in so far as they are in conflict with each other. By allowing municipalities with an inspection plan to control specific risks, the costs for municipalities can be reduced, including the fees. The inspection plan is also important to ensure that the risks that may arise in the case of simple constructions are also taken into account. The Minister opts for a system of consequent classes of buildings. First of all, he wants to make the new quality assurance system applicable only to follow-up class 1. But there may also be risky parts in this class. Conversely, there are many simple components in the complicated structures, those of the subsequent classes 2 and 3, where it is not necessary or desirable to check things to the last detail. An example of the fact that risks may indeed arise in class 1 is the ventilation requirements. The requirement for new buildings to be delivered almost energy-neutrally by 2020 will increase the requirements to build more compact and airtight. The current ventilation systems often provide a non-healthy indoor climate in practice. It is important to prevent the construction world from looking for the lower limit for this type of risky building elements and to ensure that these more energy-efficient homes are used to create undisputed houses. How does the Minister intend to rule out these risks? Moreover, not every quality assurance officer will be equally competent in all areas. We believe that risk analysis and the inspection plan should be included in the system so that municipalities can carry out their enforcement tasks properly in the new system. On this enforcement task, we ask the Minister whether the quality assurance officer will be subject to an alert, in case of irregularities. The inspection plan is also important at the end of the journey. On the basis of the transfer file, the municipality shall determine, as easily as possible after completion of the construction, whether the inspection plan has been carried out and whether it is likely that the performance requirements in the building decision have been met. If that is the case, it will record this in writing within a week, after which the building can be put into operation. If the municipality is in doubt, it can ask for additional information. If the documentation is not complete or if it is not possible to establish that the product meets the public requirements, the construction cannot be put into service until the defect has been resolved. With regard to risk analysis and the inspection plan, we have tabled an amendment. We have included provisions in our amendment on the transfer file in case the building is put into service without a municipal consent. We are in favour of making possible, in such a case, a penalty payment charge for General Measure of Management, allowing the client to recover any resulting damage from the contractor if it has actually put the building into use before the required municipal statement. I mentioned it for a moment: a pressing question is what will happen to the fee. Mr Madlener has already pointed that out. In our view, the clients are right to say that they should be substantially reduced in the new system. We therefore propose to include in this law, as in the Environment Act, that Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act should apply. That article regulates the examination of the financial implications for the municipalities. There are indications that the fee with this new system can really be drastically reduced. With this bill, the building regulations change dramatically. The profit is in increasing and clarifying liability. Their impact can be significantly enhanced if more robust insurability is also possible. For us, it is crucial that the unnecessary quality assurance model remains manageable in our view. We have made proposals for this. I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u22	You say the contractor will be held liable and you think that is a good thing. We also believe that this is a good thing and progress, but of course the consumer does not benefit as much when the contractor falls over. So we get a situation where construction supervision has been privatised, the municipality no longer supervises, a contractor can fall over and the consumer may have a guarantee of liability, but nothing can tell because the contractor is no longer there. The motion adopted by the Chamber by my colleague Paul Jansen and yourself will not be carried out in this way. Can't we just make sure that this motion is carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u23	The Minister has offered an alternative. He has included an obligation to provide information in this law, which requires the contractor to indicate how, even in the event of bankruptcy, he will take care of it or ensure that the consumer receives what he has ordered. If a consumer is in contact with a contractor who has not adequately regulated this, the consumer himself is not very alert. We also propose to create a so-called first party insurance on the client side. That's an insurance policy that serves the client's interests. If there are problems, this insurance goes on the way for the client to make sure it works out, in case of bankruptcy and in case of defects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr De Vries says that this is a consumer law. However, I see that the construction supervision is being removed from the municipality. This is laid down by private parties, who have an interest in working with as little cost as possible and thus taking large risks. The obligation to ensure what the Chamber has asked for is not going to happen. Consumers can work without that insurance. They may have the right to hold the contractor liable, but of course they may have fallen over before the house is ready. Then the consumer is without the purchased and paid home. The city hasn't looked at it, it's not finished and the contractor's out. Then why are we working on a consumer law? Can't we just put that motion that the Chamber has passed into the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u25	It really is a consumer law, because the consumer can be very protected in this system. The obligation to provide information imposed on the contraaor enables the consumer to see whether the contraaor has been insured in the event that he falls over. The consumer can therefore see for himself whether the risk in the event of bankruptcy is excluded. In addition, we strongly advocate that there should be an insurance policy that will further relieve the consumer, so that he does not have to go after it himself if something happens. With a car you also have insurance. When someone else hits your car, you go to your own insurance. He'll make sure everything's taken care of. We also advocate this kind of insurance in the new system. If we do that, the contractors are really responsible for the way they deliver quality. Then let them take care of it themselves. If they don't do it right, they're gonna sit on the blisters. That is the other part of my argument: if things go wrong, the contractor must really feel the consequences in his wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u26	I conclude that building and housing control is removed from the municipalities. The contractor may be liable, but there is no obligation to insure. So the consumer will soon be the scare. I really do not understand why Mr De Vries, in particular, is so passionate about this great privatisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u27	Mr Bashir continues to talk about privatisation, but we really do see it differently. It's not a rose scent and moonshine now either. Those balconies of Mr Madlener fell off the premises when there was still a regime with building and housing supervision, with public supervision. The current system therefore does not guarantee that everything is going well. It just made the construction companies lazy. Others checked whether they were doing their job properly. In this law they have to check for themselves and make sure that the quality system is in order. If they don't have that in order, they're gonna be on the blisters. The Labour Party really thinks that's a final agreement. The consumer will really be served much better than in the current system. That ball must enter the target as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u28	It is true that mistakes are now being made. Sometimes it's real mistakes, too. It is not always about fraud or saving; it is sometimes also about faults of subcontractors or whatever. The municipality sometimes lacks supervision. We all know that. However, the Netherlands still has a good reputation when it comes to its buildings. We're threatening to risk them now. So it's not like nothing's gonna change. A lot is changing with this bill. For example, I am concerned about the mandatory insurance for contractors. Of course, we could easily say that a contractor who works for a private person must have compulsory insurance. Think also of the GIW guarantee. There are all kinds of guarantees. I get the impression they're pretty affordable. This way we could protect consumers. We shouldn't expect too much people to figure everything out. Life is complicated enough as it is. My question to Mr De Vries is as follows. He talked about the fees; they should fall heavily. It has been a thorn in our eye for years that this fee leads to wild growth. It is often a tool for municipalities to close their budgets. I know it's not supposed to, but it will. We've been asking for lower fees for years. The differences between municipalities are absurd. Sometimes you pay two to three times as much in one municipality as in the other. Where does Mr De Vries get the confidence that the fees are going down?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u29	The Minister has sent us all sorts of reports and analyses showing what the financial consequences are. From this, I make it clear that the fees in this system can be considerably reduced. The only fear I have is that for some municipalities it will lead to a breakdown in their budget. I therefore call for Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act to also look at the implications for the municipalities. However, there are numerous indications that the fee can be significantly reduced. I also think that is necessary. I agree with Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u30	At the moment, in many municipalities too, the fee can be reduced. It must be cost-effective, but of course it cannot be that it is twice as expensive in one municipality as in the other. They are the same civil servants and the same collective agreements. So you can already see that municipalities are using the buildings to close their own budgets. So far, there has been no intervention. Mr De Vries says that we should look at that. I think that's so buttery. Of course that is not going to happen; so is Mr De Vries. On the one hand, we are going to burden the consumer with expensive extra insurance, with a whole new system that brings a lot of extra costs, but on the other hand, it reduces the expense of butter. Mr De Vries says that we should look at that, but I think that is too weak a story. This will only lead to increased costs for consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u31	This system will increase consumer security. It will make construction cheaper. It will lead to fewer mistakes being made. These are all points that make it cheaper for consumers. I have the confidence that the fee, if we look closely at that, can really go down. We have exactly the same goal. I'm not taking anything off of it. I also think that the fee should be reduced. I don't see the difference of opinion, so let's not build that either. This also applies to the stories about building and housing supervision. It's said that all that was rose-scented and moonshine. I'm lucky I was allowed to lead people who did that work for a while. They did a fantastic job, but that doesn't mean that things didn't go wrong every once in a while. You saw construction companies leaning all the way back and waiting to see if the people of construction and housing control discovered an error or not. In this system, the construction companies themselves are responsible. That's a huge win.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u32	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u33	Yes. A new system means that, no matter how well we dealt with it, there will also be new disputes which will lead to new case law. We believe that it is very desirable that, prior to case-law, the possibility of having disputes settled by an expert college, a college that could be supported by the NEN organisation, because it represents all interests and because the objectivity of that organisation is generally accepted. In the building industry, these are often technical issues, the knowledge of which is logically limited in the regular case law. If, after examination by the college we have proposed, it comes to a normal course of law, then the view of such an expert college can also contribute to the best possible balance of interests. My final question to the Minister is what he thinks of the idea of setting up such a college.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. A private home to your own taste, with that extra large kitchen or that beautiful bathroom, drawn by an architect, built by a local contractor. And if that doesn't work, a house in a new building district is a great alternative. You can still divide the house a bit and you can choose the sanitary facilities and all kinds of specialities yourself. Who doesn't want that? But your dream can just become a nightmare, for example because you didn't see when the ventilation ducts were not properly constructed, or because the promised energy performance is not being achieved, or because after a few years you discover that the concrete is starting to crumble off the floors and your contractor is long gone bankrupt. If building and housing supervision overlooks a construction error, for example with balconies, you cannot hold the municipality liable, even if you have paid €40,000 fees. These aren't new problems. In fact, they have existed for decades and there is every reason to strengthen the position of consumers in construction. That position leans heavily at the time of delivery, as the customer is then deemed to address all visible defects. There is also insufficient guarantee against cracks, from curvature and from aesthetic issues, such as wrong tiles or improper use of colour. I draw up the private houses because that situation directly affects many Dutch people. But there are many more reasons to take the whole system of building and housing control, that whole quality system, on the kick-off. So that goes considerably further than just housing. Construction's changed. It's gotten a lot more complicated. We put high demands on technology in a building, on safety and on energy performance. Contractors therefore work with even more subcontractors than before. And especially when building offices, architects sometimes want to create bold designs that defy the laws of gravity. As a result, solving the problems has become technically and legally more complex. The average cost of failure in construction is 10%. At least this percentage has not been called into question by anyone in the run-up to this legislative proposal. Technical developments continue and are spectacular. I have stood with amazement and admiration watching Helmond build a house in one day. In the morning at 9.30 a.m. the first truck arrives, in the afternoon at 2 p.m. the plug of the central heating boiler goes into the socket. Beautiful houses, zero on the meter, built by a large construction contractor who stuck his neck out. The same development is taking place in utility building, where modular construction has been taking place for a long time. We must ask ourselves what, given these developments, is the role of municipal building and housing control. Physical supervision of the construction site is hardly taking place anymore. How would you like to oversee one of those homes or corporate halls that is set up in a day? By the time the inspector shows up, the lawn mats will be rolled out in the front yard. How can you as a municipal supervisor vouch for the energy efficiency of an office building? The focus is now mainly on construction and fire safety, and not on integral construction quality. And then of course we also have the lead time, because you can see that large construction companies already hire certified parties that do work that actually belongs to municipal supervision. After all, they prevent delays. Meanwhile, you still pay thousands, sometimes tens of thousands of euro's construction fee for a construction project and you don't even get any security back, because government liability is very limited in the Netherlands. Last year, during a general consultation, I called building and housing control in the Netherlands a toothless paper tiger. And I knew it! It has led to one of the most interesting work visits of the last four years. I've seen highly driven professionals looking critically at complex structures. Those people are actually discovering construction flaws. And this is not about houses, but it is mainly about publicly accessible buildings where thousands of people come. This science does not relieve us of the obligation to now respond to the practical problems that supervision has to deal with. I refer to high costs of failure, expensive government supervision with little certainty and a bad position on the part of the customer. We must respond to these problems here, but we must also ensure that the building expertise is secured. Construction is a rather conservative sector, and any change in regulation is accompanied by immense financial interests. However, we have seen how builders, suppliers, customers and governments have been in close contact since 2002 to bring about a necessary change. That has led to this bill. This legislative proposal provides that the position of the buyer is strengthened and that contractors are simply liable for imputable shortcomings. It regulates that the construction sector itself becomes responsible for quality. To this end, a system of quality assurance tools will be set up, with quality assurance agencies and an admission organisation. Finally, insurability constitutes the litmus test for quality assurance. This shifts a number of legal responsibilities between the public and private sectors. We just talked about that. The private sector has a greater direct responsibility for construction. Public authorities are given greater system responsibility through this admission organisation, and administrative burdens are reduced, while compliance is intensified. In other words, we rely more on craftsmanship in construction, we make the work difficult, and the government gets a new but firm role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u35	I want to talk to you about the fee again. So far, it has been found that the Lower House cannot align these municipalities. The fees are far too high in many municipalities. It's been for years. This has been said by several parties and nothing has ever been done about it, because it has been said: the municipality has to know for itself. Where does Mr De Vries, sorry, get the wisdom from the VVD spokesperson that this will automatically work out? Of course, these municipalities are going to reduce that fee to a minimum, and the citizen is left with all these expensive insurances. It is therefore not going to be cheaper on balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u36	I am not getting that wisdom from anywhere, because I share Mr Madlener's concern. I think the construction platforms are a big point. I'll get back to you on that. If we don't get on top of that from this Chamber over the next few years, it's gonna go all wrong. So you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u37	It's been going down for years. That's exactly what I'm talking about. For many years I have been calling on my party for the fact that the construction sites in the municipalities have got completely out of hand and that the differences are unacceptable and inexplicable. This has nothing to do with cost, but only with the cost of chasing the citizen to eat his own municipal cash. You haven't been able to solve that problem in the last few years. Then why is that going well in the coming years? I await your term, but I hope there will be a hard answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u38	We share that. Moreover, I have not seen any specific measures taken by the PVV in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u39	I would like to continue with this. This bill has already been experimented with. Turns out what? In the municipality of Voorst the costs have doubled. First you had to pay a fee, but later you'll have to pay the cost of quality assurance. This has doubled the cost to consumers. The question is therefore: what is the added benefit of consumers? The contractor's gonna be bankrupt. Everyone will say: you can hold the contractor liable if the construction is not successful. But if the contractor's bankrupt, that still doesn't do you any good. So you're gonna have a double charge. Look at the municipality of Voorst, but still your house isn't finished if the contractor's bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u40	I think the pilots were just meant to bring this kind of failure to light. It is very good that Mr Bashir points that out. I'm thinking a little bit more. As far as insurance is concerned, I have just said that this is the litmus test for what we are doing. If you don't get insurance, you're sure you're messing around. That's the bail that's in the whole system. I share the fears expressed about fees, but I believe that we are all in agreement on this. If it works well, the fee will be taken off and people can then opt for the insurance. I say "choose," because in the end, of course, that's up to you. This should lead to less costs. That's also apparent from the wire transfer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u41	I quote the example, because this bill has been experimented with in practice. Then you see what happens to the costs. Everyone has a big mouth about the costs, which I have also asked written questions about. What is going to happen in practice, and what benefit will the consumer have in the future if the contractor's house is still unfinished and he can't get anywhere? The municipality has deducted its hands from it, because it is no longer responsible for building and housing control. The contractor is gone and the fee has doubled. What is the VVD going to do now to make sure that something happens to those out of hand costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u42	Now I get the impression that Mr Bashir has not read his documents. The big problem is that although we have building and housing control, the way in which we have regulated this varies greatly from one municipality to another, and that building and housing control in its present form is no longer calculated on the future. I take back all the words about toothless paper tigers, because I've seen how hard those people work there, but it doesn't work anymore. Building and housing supervision looks at construction safety and not at the integral construction quality that we need. The other point is that supervision as we do it now is simply not calculated on the future. I was just quoting the examples of physical surveillance. In my view, we share with his only fact that the construction sites are the big problem. At the hearing in which Mr De Vries and I took part, almost all the parties were on the side of the clients complaining about the unpredictability of that fee. That differs from one municipality to another, the height is no longer explainable. We should be on top of that, we share that, and that is precisely what this bill is for. So if Mr Bashir asks me what specific measures the VVD proposes, I say: take your piece and read it; that is what it is about!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u43	Finally, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u44	The only thing I read is that there will be a right to information, but then a consumer can choose not to insure himself. This can happen for cost reasons or for other reasons, for example because someone does not understand what the consequences may be. This means that there is no insurance, with the result that the consequences are even greater. Then why can't we, if the VVD really agrees with the SP, opt for compulsory insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u45	The current situation is that 85% of newly built houses are insured. This is mainly about serial new construction. In practice, that part has already been settled. That is exactly the current situation. So you've got double costs. I would like to keep the possibility that a professional client may be a company, but it can also be an architect who has a private house built... says: I don't have to insure myself, because I can see the risks myself. It seems very healthy to me to be able to make a choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u46	I hear Mr Van der Linde talking a lot about the fees. Others do, too. Of course that's a point. I have also recognised this in my contribution, but does Mr Van der Linde not agree with me that the point in this bill that will lead to a reduction in costs is precisely the increase in liability? The bill ensures that the builder becomes really responsible and that he will also feel it in his wallet if things go wrong. Surely that will make a much greater contribution to the cost reduction than the fee alone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u47	It's both. You're right. If we can reduce 10% of the cost of failure, if only by half, then we will make a huge blow that will benefit the builders in the first place, but also the buyers in the second place. Yes, we agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u49	We have already received answers to most of the questions through the note on the report. On behalf of the VVD I would like to raise a number of questions and points of interest. I'll start with the quality assurance guy. The bill states that the quality assurance officer should not be involved in any activity that might conflict with his independent judgment. As a result, the VVD asked the concrete question whether the quality assurance officer could be employed by a construction company or by another party involved in the construction. Can I conclude from the answer that a large construction company may have quality assurance staff, provided that they can operate independently? Then it becomes something like a corporate lawyer, who also has an independent position. If so, how do we guarantee independence? Has the Minister considered using an ISO or NEN standard for this purpose, or is it done by the instrument developers on their own in practice? Then there's the delivery file. My group has previously asked how this file can be seen in retrospect. This is particularly important in sales. In the note following the report, the Minister elaborates on that consumer file, but in fact it is only reported that the information cannot be transferred to the Land Registry. My specific question: can a property owner in the future get an insight into the delivery file that was ever left there? I'm on liability. Many parties are involved in the construction process. In addition to the client and the contractor, that is still the architect and the subcontractors. There is often also a project developer, who can be the contractor or contractor depending on the situation. Responsibility and liability are difficult concepts, especially if the architect makes a bold design or changes the client's specifications halfway through the construction. The legislative proposal is now based on "attributable shortcomings." This is what the VVD considers to be a major gain compared to the current situation, in which the delivery moment is still crucial. I therefore do not share the criticism of the Institute for Construction Law regarding the wording of the proposed Article 758 (4) in Book 7. However, a new system will inevitably lead to legal proceedings on liability. Without sitting on the judge's seat, I assume the professionalism of the client will be taken into account. The inexpensive private individual is, of course, more entitled to legal protection in this respect than the expert purchasers of the National Buildings Service, Shell or Tata. Does the Minister endorse this image? In this context, I have taken note with surprise of Mr Ronnes' amendment to exclude any business party from the benefits of this law. You'll only have a grocery store in Boxmeer, a general practitioner's practice in Middelburg or a farm in Staphorst, or you'll only be zzp'er in Rotterdam. Then suddenly you're a professional party and the CDA drops you like a brick. I know Mr Ronnes a little bit; I'm pretty sure it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u50	This was entrapment, but Mr De Vries was already at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u51	I agree with Mr Van der Linde, but I understand that Mr Ronnes wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think we should bring the discussion back to what we are aiming at with the amendment. It is precisely the cases in which a professional client can influence the construction process. Mr De Vries just said that there must be consumer protection: if you buy a product, that product must be in order. I wholeheartedly agree with that. If I go to a store and buy a phone, that phone has to be of good quality and do it. However, in complex construction processes where the professional client influences the construction process during the construction process, there may be situations where false liability is laid down with the contractor. That is why we have tabled that amendment. I would like to discuss with Mr Van der Linde the nuances and the way in which you prevent the small businessman from getting hurt. But the problem we want to solve with the amendment is precisely giving a fair place to the great professional client.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u53	My point is that the judge will do that later. It checks whether the client is professional. That's why I gave the example of a large company or the Rijksbouwbouwdienst. If they do come to court, the judge will consider that they are very professional clients. As it is now stated in Mr Ronnes's amendment, the vegetable man, thezzp'er or the general practitioner who does a small renovation and is not professional at all, is considered a professional client. They're dropping Mr. Ronnes at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u54	I want to put that ball back. If a small contractor works for a corporation or if a professional client gives an order to a smaller entrepreneur, then Mr Van der Linde puts that small builder in the cold. Then the builder has to surround himself with all kinds of certainty in order to be able to do an assignment with a professional party. So I'm going to put the ball back with Mr Van der Linde. Just because of the line of thought he follows, he makes it difficult for small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u55	But even then, the professionalism of both parties will be weighed by the judge if it comes to conflict.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u56	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u57	It will be weighed by the judge in all cases. It's where you put the burden of proof. Small contractors carrying out a contract with a professional institution or client will then be excluded from the contract. They just can't live up to it. At that time they do not have the knowledge to fight against the professional client.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u58	You will eventually be offered a construction plan from your client and you will sign in or you will not sign in. I mean, you can do it or you can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u59	Mr President, very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yes, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u61	But then I'll come back to my point. It's not buying a phone. We're dealing with a construction process. We have already heard that construction plans are often modified in many places in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u62	Yeah, but you can't sell phones and say, "Sorry, it's actually not my fault I can't fix that phone."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u63	This is what the PvdA was afraid of. There are now a number of discussions about how liability is regulated. Mr Van der Linde says it must be imputable. Stand on it. What is imputable and what isn't? The PvdA's argument is that the contractor is always liable, because he determines what he accepts. He decides who he turns on and what materials he uses. He's completely in control of what he does and doesn't want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u64	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u65	Does Mr Van der Linde agree that discussions on liability undermine the substance of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u66	I think it is very important, in the context of legal history, that we investigate these things. So I'm happy with the questions. The tricky thing is that this contractor cannot always be held responsible for precisely the reasons that Mr Ronnes mentions. You see in practice that halfway specifications are changed. Then there's no more attributable deficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u67	Of course it is, because the contractor then goes along with the client's wish, without knowing for sure that he can make it. If he can't make it or he can't make it clear, he has to say to the client: "Oh, that's a great idea, but I'm not gonna do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u68	Then I'm gonna make it visible. I'll have a house built. I hired a contractor. That contractor called in another electrician. That electrician's busy, and I'm gonna tell him, "Oh, you pull that extra line back there and so on." The contractor doesn't know anything. Then we have an excellent example of a non-attributable deficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u69	I do not agree with Mr Van der Linde either. The contractor shall choose its own subcontractors. He can instruct those subcontractors. He can tell you what they like and what they can't. Let's make a clear bill. Legitimately liable. Let us make sure that the entire procurement system is changed, that contractors have the opportunity and the time to realize how much risk they are at when they accept the contract, but once they have accepted it, they are truly fully liable. Then we'll clear it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u70	Then you forbid me to do business directly with the electrician for a no-fucking-all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u71	No, that's not true either, because the moment you ask it, it doesn't seem so complicated for the electrician to contact the main contractor, because perhaps it will be on your account. That's reasonable, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u72	Yeah, but then we're putting together a purple crocodile.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u73	It is of course daily practice that when you as a client accompany a construction process, you say: I still have this wish and that and we can sister or something. That's the order of the day. You say that the client's liability lies in your example. That means a lot of people get in trouble for this. They don't realize that if they ask if the door can do anything else, they become equally liable. Of course, that is not workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u74	That is why we have the system with attributable shortcomings. Any lawyer can do a great job with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u75	We're legislators here, aren't we? It is far too easy to say "we make a law that is very unclear and let the judge solve it later"? Then we don't know what we're up to, do we? We have to think about what we're doing here, don't we? Isn't it daily practice that people who build something, influence it, or say "I want an extra socket"? That could have consequences, you say, for the client's liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u76	I don't think so. At the moment when I deal directly with a subcontractor, and that happens in practice, there is no more attributable deficiency. These are perfectly normal legal concepts. These also apply if you buy a car or an iron or a hair dryer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u77	That's exactly the difference. When you buy a car, you have a ready-made product. If you build something, it's a process that involves a lot of parties. Some parties are in contact with the consumer, but some of them he never sees. There is a constructor behind it, an architect and a municipality. That is a very different product and therefore the comparison between buying a car or building a house is not a good one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u78	Then let me make a comparison with the car. If you buy a car and you put an extra spoiler under it and you also put in some electronics on the inside, then the car manufacturer is no longer responsible. That is precisely the essence of these attributable shortcomings. This subject is alive. I even saw my colleague Ronnes driving his own gig last Saturday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u79	What do you have with Mr. Ronnes today? You're luring him out again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u80	I was at the CDA Congress and there was that bus. It even said "Building Netherlands." Oh, no, it was, "Build the Netherlands." Now I remember. When we discussed this bill in March 2014, I first drew attention to the innovation in construction. This innovation comes mainly from suppliers of building materials. Those are parties that have the most international competition. It is important that we regulate the entry into the market properly for these companies. Established parties benefit from labels and fixed procedures. My concern in 2014 was that there would be a huge lobby to strengthen that position through the tools of quality assurance. After all, these parties are also at the table at the Quality Assurance Building Steering Group. I am now largely reassured on this point, but the question remains what possibilities the Minister has, given the ZBO status of the admission organisation to intervene if innovation and competition are at stake. I now come to the financial consequences. The external cost transfer has been carried out very well, but at the same time we see how many uncertainties there are. I can imagine anything. There will indeed be the necessary court cases. Indeed, it is not clear how fast the construction fee will fall and you do not know how quickly the cost of failure will decrease. What I do know, however, is that I come to Mr Madlener's point of view is that I can hardly explain the current height of the construction sites, let alone in a new system. The sound of this at that hearing was unambiguous. There is a plea for a 50% reduction in the construction fee, but the demand is of course more fundamental. If municipalities don't make significant costs, why are we paying construction fee at all? I am struggling with this issue and the Minister does remember it from previous debates. It has now been agreed with the UNG that as of this year there will be transparency on the building up of the fees. In that light, it would be strange to start making additional rules now, mid-January. But what do we do in 2018 when the Act for Entire Class 1 is rolled out and it turns out that there will be no reduction at all? Is the Minister then prepared to use his competence under Article 2.9 of the General Environmental Law Act and to set a maximum for himself? This question goes beyond this legislative proposal, because in the context of the Energy Agreement, and who knows about the Treaty of Paris, there is an unimaginable amount of new construction, renovation and sustainability coming towards us. It's just not right that the municipalities make money from that, when there's hardly any work to be done. The VVD not only wants to keep its finger on the wrist, but also wants to prepare a credible sanction. I ask the Minister to indicate how we can do this properly. With this, I want to close my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u81	I share the concern about the fee. We have to see that effect back at the fees in the municipalities. I would just like to check how Mr Van der Linde sees it. The fees are already limited at the moment. They may only cover the costs incurred by the municipalities in providing those products. However, municipalities can choose to what extent, for example, they allow the costs to be high or low with enforcement and the use of people. Will Mr Van der Linde go so far as to want to break into the municipalities and indicate to what extent, for example, they should regulate enforcement? Or is he, like me, of the opinion that municipalities themselves are about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u82	The biggest problem at the moment is cross-subsidisation. This means that fees are attributed to small buildings or to large buildings. I understand that this is partly done by municipalities, but now tariffs are being charged that no longer correspond to people's sense of justice. They're not normal for what's being done. If you put down a rooftop cap of €5,000 and you have to count down €800 in fees for that, there are municipalities where that happens. You don't understand what's going on anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr. Chairman. I just received compliments from Mr Van der Linde for my bus. It doesn't say "The Netherlands" but "Building a better Netherlands" and that might be the difference between the VVD and the CDA at the moment. Mr. Chairman. It is a fact that the construction sector is building better and better. There are more and more beautiful buildings and architectural excellence that we can be proud of. It is also a fact that it still prevents parking garages from sinking or balconies from breaking apartments. It is a good thing to strengthen the position of consumers in this respect. We note that the following aspects are relevant to the quality of the building. The complexity of the construction process has increased. Technological developments allow more complex applications, but the position of the construction consumer is rather weak. What happens if a structure shows cracks because the contractor didn't build well after all? In recent years, the control of building quality has been limited to the preventive building plan test carried out by municipalities and the supervision of the municipalities during construction. However, this preventive planning test by the municipal authorities is insufficient, because the focus of the test lies in the assessment of only the paper construction plans. The paper is checked, but the piles themselves or the foundation are checked too little. Monitoring during construction is limited in more and more municipalities to a single sample. The practice is that many construction projects are built in derogation from the environmental permits because the construction plan had not been fully developed at the time of an application for authorisation or because the contractor and the construction method were not yet known. As a result, the construction quality is almost always different from the building quality as assessed by the municipality in the review of the construction plans on paper. There is a paper reality that is contrary to reality in practice. In assessing the more complex buildings, it has been common for expertise to be hired. Municipalities don't usually have the expertise in the house. In our view, this old system no longer meets today's demands and complexity. One part I'd like to highlight concerns the monuments. Around old buildings and monuments exist at the CDA to ensure that the law will also work out well with those buildings. Although monument care is not covered by the private system, there are concerns about the irreversible consequences this law may have on the protected monuments. The law assumes that it is possible to describe all specific building engineering issues associated with the monumental building in question as requirements of an environmental permit. This assumption is not based on the usual practice in which many monumental aspects are only discovered during construction after the demolition of, for example, intercede ceilings, partitions and cabinet walls. Such discoveries lead to a plan adjustment and thus to a deviation from the pre-defined building requirements in order to avoid unnecessary loss of monumental value. Should we not recognise that the cultivation of monuments entails a higher social risk? Shouldn't we pay more specific attention to this in the law? Also the building we are currently in will have monumental surprises in the upcoming renovation. There should first be extensive experience of this law with unprotected buildings before the more risky works are brought under the new system. Does the Minister share this thought? I come to a point that has already been raised by a number of speakers: the private clientship versus the professional client. The law assumes better protection for the client, but is it logical that the private client should be treated in the same way as the professional client? The position of the individual who has his dream house built once because he has been able to buy a lot is quite different from that of a professional client who does nothing but negotiate with clients and contractors every day? They have expertise and can influence the construction process, as I mentioned earlier. We believe that the intended extension of the contractor's liability should only be given to clients who are consumers. For such clients, they generally do not have a relevant influence on the construction process and have no expertise in the field of construction and therefore indeed deserve that additional protection. The alleged liability of the contractor will result in the contractor not being liable unless he makes it plausible that the defect is caused by something for which he is not responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u84	We came to talk about this earlier in the debate. There are a lot of organisations, including those that are professional organisations in the words of Mr Ronnes, that do something once in a while. I myself have some experience in building a theatre; I always bring it up myself, otherwise others will. For a municipality that is really not a simple task. That's what a town council does once. Is such a municipality a professional client?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u85	No, but you can see that that kind of organization often hires professionals to play that role. For example, if municipalities have schools built, advisors are hired to guide the construction process and influence the process during construction. You have to make sure that smaller contractors are excluded. When an disproportionate burden of proof is placed on the small contractors' sign, it is no longer possible for them to fight against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u86	I just mentioned the example of the theatre and the municipality, but there are a lot of people or organisations that are professional organisations according to Mr Ronnes' definition. Think of Mr Van der Linde's example of this general practitioner and mention it all. In doing so, Mr Ronnes makes this proposal virtually impossible. The big profit I will try to stress one more time is that it is clear who is liable, namely the contractor, in all cases, because it simply affects what he will and will not do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u87	I understand the point made by Mr De Vries. I would also be happy to clarify the amendment I tabled on that point so that it does what it really intends to do. In situations where you are dealing with professional clientship, in which professional people can influence the construction process that is going on, I would still argue that we should be a little more cautious and not throw that responsibility over the wall at once in the direction of the contractors, because that way you also ensure that a lot of small contractors can no longer participate in those routes. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mr De Vries has another supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u89	Then it is very weird that the ANFL, the small contractors, in all the discussions I have had on this issue, were there very many people saying that they are very much in favour of this proposal. They are because they are able to distinguish themselves from the shackles. They deliver quality and they stand for it. They're willing to be responsible for that. So these little contractors love this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u90	I also think this proposal is fantastic, but it would be even more fantastic if we could make the proposal even better. I think that organisations that hire professionals to guide the construction process do not quickly get to this category where they work with beunhazen. They must really want professionals. That's why I think we're talking past each other. We have to compare apples with apples, and we should not give examples that are not related to the amendment as I have tabled. This reverse burden of proof does fit in situations where the client has no influence on the construction process, but it does not fit in cases where there is a relevant influence of the client. A relevant influence of the client can lead to defects. In that case it is therefore not appropriate to hold the contractor liable for defects in general terms in advance. As I have said, I have tabled an amendment to that effect. I have also indicated that I would like to adapt this, so to define the intention even more precisely. However, I am also curious to hear the Minister's response on this point. I now turn to enforcement and monitoring, which I have a few questions about. The proposed shift to private supervision may be at odds with the enforcement powers of the competent authority. Does the competent authority remain fully competent to enforce, even in the case of private supervision? I would like a clear answer from the Minister to this question, because the municipalities are right to say that they want to know clearly what they are going for. I also ask the Minister whether he is prepared to fully take over the recommendations in the report The role of the municipality in providing private quality assurance and to implement them in the further implementation of the law. The CDA believes that municipalities should be able to make a good risk assessment of the crucial moments in enforcement and supervision. I mention the foundation and monumental aspects. How can insight be secured prior to construction? A risk analysis may be requested from the applicant prior to the authorisation, so that it provides insight into the crucial moments during the construction. Does the municipality also receive this risk analysis, so that it can check the risk moments? I'm going into the fee now. I would like to thank the Minister for the extra research that has been done on the fee. It is now clear that, on balance, there will be a substantial reduction in costs. This one needs to be visible. Now municipal councils are primarily about this, but we believe that the minister should also play a role in this. For example, the Minister can make agreements with municipalities in an administrative agreement. How is the Minister going to ensure that municipalities actually lower their fees? Finally, how exactly is the implementation planned: at what times is the Chamber involved? Is the introduction sufficiently careful and careful and in what way does the Court see anything back from the moments of evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mr. Chairman. It is important that there is no ambiguity as to who is responsible for the construction. The contractor and the builder deserve clarity and the client and the end user deserve protection. This bill should be the answer. This has been the case for years, but also for years. We saw various committees, foundations, directors, quartermasters and many investigations coming along. Between 2008 and 2015, almost 1 million euros were spent on external reports and opinions. Unfortunately, the starting point of this legislative proposal was initially wrong. In all these years there has been work on a new building control system based on the assumption that construction is taking a step forward and that the government is taking a step back. And that, when we have just learned from the parliamentary survey on housing corporations that public reins must be attracted. The abandonment of public responsibilities and the confidence in so-called self-regulation has caused many problems. People pay the bill for that. In the present legislative proposal, municipal building and housing control is transferred to an entirely new sector of private quality assurance; a major privatisation blow. A system change with high risks is chosen. With this new bill, the butcher will approve his own meat. Can the Minister explain why this new system is better than the current system? I see experiments that start ringing alarm bells. See, for example, The Hague, Zeeburger Island and Voorst, where experimented with this new bill. These experiments all point in the wrong direction: high or unknown costs and problems in quality control. In The Hague, it was concluded that quality assurance in the experiment proved to be detrimental to the final inhabitants. There are also reports of several situations in which the municipality has had to adjust and shut down work due to construction problems. In Voorst the costs for the client appeared to have doubled. In Zeeburger Island the construction was shut down by the municipal supervisor, because there were many defects. What is the need to replace public building supervision with a butcher who approves his own meat? I would like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u92	In my contribution I mentioned a number of major problems in the current situation, one of which is public liability. What are the specific ideas of the SP to improve this situation? It's very easy just to say that it's all wrong, but what are the alternative ideas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u93	We have been very clear about this for years. It's very easy to say that we've just been shouting things. In fact, we have tabled a proposal for which all parties have voted, except the VVD. The Paulus Janssen/Albert de Vries motion, which asked for compulsory insurance, was supported by the entire Chamber, except by the VVD. Although that motion was passed, that compulsory insurance was not included in the legislative proposal. I wonder why we have had all these debates all these years if proposals from the Chamber are not finally accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u94	We do not want compulsory insurance. You're right, but does that solve all the problems we currently have in building and housing supervision with the liability, where you are supposed to see everything at the time of delivery?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u95	A second aspect, which we would like to add, is to look ahead, also for the installation of a building. In the letter from the G-4 there are two very clear things: make sure that, before construction starts, the municipality has taken a look, made an assessment and carried out a risk analysis. Afterwards, municipalities also look at the building before it is put into operation, examining whether all the assessment criteria have been properly implemented and whether all the risks have been measured. Only then will a permit be given to put the building into service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u96	If I understand correctly, then the municipality becomes responsible for the delivery moment, not the client.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u97	I'd say read the letter from the G-4. On behalf of the SP Group, I support what is in that letter. I'll come back to this later. The municipalities make a number of recommendations to improve the legislative proposal, which has limitations. I embrace those recommendations. I'd say let's embrace those recommendations. If we embrace them together with compulsory insurance, we could suddenly be in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u98	So I think the SP is in favour of the bill if that letter from the G-4 is taken over. You have heard in my speech, Mr Bashir, that the PvdA agrees with you. I will also put forward proposals on this. Is that enough for you to change your mind? Your arguments about these experiments are a little out of order. Experiments are done to learn the strengths and weaknesses of a system. Of course, there were flaws in it. They're also in the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u99	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u100	If we take over the G-4 proposals, is the SP going to think about voting for this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u101	In the end, we're both doing it for the consumer. Mr De Vries says that the PvdA is doing this for the consumer. I too am doing this for the consumer, because we want good buildings that are safe and that meet what has been discussed with the consumer in advance. But of course you don't want the contractor to be unable to meet his obligations due to bankruptcy. So, in addition to the points put forward by the G4 which we support, we also want the Paulus Jansen/De Vries motion to be carried out. That motion on compulsory insurance was almost accepted in the Chamber. Then we will indeed look positively at this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u102	Then we'll be very close together. I would like to draw attention to the obligation to provide information in the law and our proposals, which will be submitted in the second term, to develop first party insurance. Does the consumer not have all the tools to take precautions and to ensure against the risks? Does it almost satisfy compulsory insurance if the consumer himself has access to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u103	If something's nearly enough, it means it's not enough. That is the reality. If the legislative proposal improves in such a way that there is no real privatisation and the municipality is still watching and judging with it, we are, of course, more positive. The positive aspect of this bill is that the contractor's liability is well regulated, but if the contractor goes bankrupt, you don't have much of that liability. In the current situation, the contractor is responsible, but if he goes bankrupt, the consumer is there. Next, Mr Ronnes comes up with the proposal from Bouwend Nederland that the contractor is no longer responsible if there are professional parties. Then there is no supervision by the municipalities and the liability of the contractor has suddenly disappeared. We do not want that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u104	In principle, of course, we are in favour of a voluntary choice of insurance, but we must also protect consumers. Is the insurance that the SP advocates, an insurance for all parties or just for consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u105	The compulsory insurance applies to all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u106	Well, that's gonna blow my mind a little bit. There are many parties who know very well what they are doing and who choose to carry risks or make good agreements. I can certainly imagine something about compulsory consumer insurance. They must know the code, but many people do not know it and of course all these rules. It's just too much and too complicated. There are already a lot of regulations and insurances, I mention the Warranty Institute for Housing and Housing, and so it is a question of connecting. I understand from the contractors that they are also affordable. However, I am going too far to settle this for all parties. I wonder whether Mr Bashir will submit this to the Chamber in an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u107	At the moment when there is no municipal building supervision, something must be done about that. This bill regulates the contractor's liability, but that is not enough if there is no compulsory insurance. Mr Madlener says that it should not apply to all parties. Then you have to set up municipal building supervision for the parties that are not covered by compulsory insurance. That makes sense to me. You have to have one or the other, otherwise something happens without any supervision or liability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u108	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u109	I do not agree with Mr Bashir. A professional party can, of course, decide which risks it wants to bear. That freedom must be there. For the consumer I can imagine a mandatory insurance of the contractor against bankruptcy. Is Mr Bashir going to table an amendment to that effect, because then perhaps we will be inclined to vote for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u110	We have already put forward a proposal for this and it has been adopted. It suits the Minister to carry out our motion now. I think that's the right order. Privatising quality assurance is therefore not a good idea. A strong government with good enforcement is needed to protect the construction consumer. With this bill, the Minister wants to make the private parties responsible for the building engineering requirements of the Building Decree. Private parties are responsible for both the planning review and the supervision. But what happens if something goes wrong during construction? The municipality is the only one that has a enforcing role at that time, but the municipality has absolutely no insight into the technical aspects of construction. Doesn't the Minister find this a little strange? Is he prepared to legally anchor that a prior substantive assessment may be carried out by the municipality and afterwards, but before the entry into service and the test, in order to determine whether the management measures have been complied with? The G-4 suggested this. I'd like to hear a response. People who choose to build must know where they stand and get their rights if something goes wrong. The prevention of errors and defects is important. That brings me to the mandatory guarantee. The Minister writes to the Chamber that he considers the preventive incentives for better building quality desirable and necessary. Then why is he ignoring the ruling of the House of Representatives? Almost four years ago, a motion by Paulus Jansen and Albert de Vries was adopted asking the government to provide a mandatory guarantee for clients, users and others. Why didn't this happen? The new law only obliges a contractor to inform the consumer whether and if so, how insurance is arranged. But what if there's no insurance? A consumer then has no choice: either he takes a huge risk or he blows off the purchase or renovation of a house. Surely the Minister cannot call that consumer protection? In what way will the Minister check whether a contractor gives the right information? What's the penalty if it turns out that the information isn't given or wrong? Another purpose of the law was to reduce the regulatory burden. I see, above all, a great deal of bureaucracy at the moment when the quality assurance committee is being set up. How does the Minister see this? The new law also creates new bureaucracy in the construction sector itself. There will be an enormous number of contracts and statutes to be amended. How does the Minister see that? What does this mean in practice for smaller contractors, smaller construction companies orzzp'ers? How does this relate to the many jobs that will be lost in the coming years? An impact analysis carried out by the Dutch Association for Construction and Housing Supervision showed that 500 officials will lose their jobs. Is this number right? What other impact will there be on employment? I'm gonna go into the fees. In June 2015, the Minister wrote that it was very difficult to predict the impact of this new law on the level of the fee. Now the Minister suddenly says that there is a reduction in the fee. How is that possible? Has service collapsed, reducing the fee? How desirable does the Minister consider the loss of a service to be? Last year, the Minister proposed an increase in costs by making system changes acceptable. Does he still think that the higher costs are acceptable and, if so, for whom? For citizens or for businesses or for both? Is the bill not too much deposited with the construction consumer, who wants to protect the minister? The Association of Dutch Municipalities even states that consumers are on balance declining. The organisations Elke(in), the Housing Association and VACpunt Wonen also say that the costs will increase especially for the construction consumers, residents and users. What is the Minister's response to that? What happens to the service function that municipalities have? Will information on buildings that are still public remain public? Can the Minister guarantee that the emergency services, the fire department and the police will continue to receive all the information necessary to ensure the health and safety of the people? That's important. The Association of Dutch Municipalities is also very concerned about this. If construction and housing supervision is privatised, it is doubtful whether all the information is available to these emergency services as well. The best thing would be for the Minister to carry out the improvements in the area of protection and clarity, but not the change in the system. Is he willing to do that? We do not want the butcher to approve his own flesh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I am now a somewhat sniffing and cold spokesperson, but in view of the interruptions and others I think I can keep it short. The fees are too high, which has been a thorn in our eye for years. And we all know that construction supervision, which now lies with the municipalities, has been inadequate for a long time. You can do two things. This way you can improve building supervision by the municipalities. Efforts have been made to do this. If I understood the reports correctly, this seems to have gotten a little better. However, you can also choose to set up a whole new system, so what this government thought it should do. Then, of course, you get the question whether that is an improvement or not. That is always difficult to assess, because this is a system change in a very complex world like the construction world, where there are always many parties involved that all have their own responsibilities. In addition, there are very different clients involved: from bakers to general practitioners to very professional parties, at least knowing Mr De Vries, I am going to go from this as municipalities. It's hard to make rules for that. We've been able to tell from the insertion that this is complicated. It's hard to predict how all this is gonna turn out. In any case, we have a number of concerns, which I would now like to put to the Minister. Maybe he can convince us to support this bill, because we very much doubt it. The first question is, of course, about costs. The new system will lead to many new costs. There's a job leaving the city. In fact, this should be a zero operation, because you're taking something away from the municipalities, which they're not always doing right now, but you're already paying for. It shouldn't be more expensive. These fees should therefore actually be reduced, at least by the amount of the costs that are currently being charged to the whole system: all kinds of experts are being hired, all kinds of insurance must be taken out and so on. How exactly, Minister, is this going to lead to more costs for the consumer or not? I don't see any guarantee. Nor have I received any guarantees in the questions I just asked the spokesmen of the government parties. I have heard wishes, but given the practice of the municipalities, I find that a little lean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u112	I'd like to make an attempt to get the PVV into this bill anyway. All parts that are in it are very good for individuals, so for the ordinary people in the Netherlands. For example, what does Mr Madlener think of the 5% retention right, which is now being greatly improved? What's his opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u113	Like Association Eigen Huis, I am naturally pleased with the increased liability for contractors. I also think that makes sense, because if you ask a professional party to do something, it should be in front of that. Moreover, you should not have too much to do with subcontractors. Such a contractor must therefore simply be responsible for its subcontractors and the product. That's the good thing about this bill. It could well also be that construction control is finally going to work properly. But we should not pretend that the municipalities are doing nothing now, because in many cases the current construction supervision is working well. I therefore have questions about its abolition and doubts about the new form. Nor am I convinced that this will lead to an improvement. With all the extra insurance that will have to be taken out, this will lead to a lot of extra costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u114	Mr Madlener now addresses questions on liability. Eventually, that part of the bill is gonna make everything cheaper. It will force contractors to deliver real quality and to reduce the number of errors. Know that 10% goes wrong in construction: the cost of failure is 10%. Does Mr Madlener know the amounts involved? Those fees are only a fraction of it. That is why I also call on Mr Madlener to think, and not to allow this opportunity to make construction really cheaper, to allow the consumer to benefit from it and to take care of him if there are problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u115	I doubt this kind of claim, which is that it's all going to be much cheaper. The reason for this is that the contractor becomes more liable and that he will therefore make fewer mistakes. I don't know if that's gonna happen. The construction process is very complex, with many subcontractors. Mistakes are not always made aware, but also unconscious. The fact that this proposal will all improve is an assumption that I cannot find hard. I don't know if that's true; I doubt it. I can see some benefits. We therefore support the aspect of greater liability for the performers, but I doubt whether this will lead to so much less cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u116	I said in my speech that the Labour Party felt that liability should also be absolutely clear. We are tabling another amendment to that effect. Perhaps Mr Madlener can support that, too. We will also table an amendment on a transfer file. The Association Eigen Huis considers it essential that the builder is actually accountable and shows whether he has met the performance requirements of the building decision and the agreement. That proposal is also on the way. I therefore believe that Mr Madlener and his party are fully served and that there really should not be so many hesitations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u117	That seems to me to be a good direction. Then we will be served at that point, but at the cost point I do not see that at all. For years we have been expressing the wish that the fee should go down. The differences between municipalities show that there is no coercion or incentive for the municipalities to charge the costs actually incurred. I hear the spokesperson of the VVD saying that perhaps we should completely abolish these construction platforms. What's a city still doing? See if a construction plan meets the rules? How much would that cost? I'm curious. A civil servant can see in a few hours whether something on paper meets the rules. How much can that cost? In an average municipality you will lose €5,000 in fees to build a house. That's a lot of money. We're gonna have to take out some extra insurance. Let me put it this way: at least these costs will be passed on. I have my doubts about it and I ask the Minister to clarify it more clearly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u118	Mr De Vries, you really need to be brief in your interruptions and not constantly interrupting after every sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u119	I'm just coming up with a conclusion. Mr Madlener starts with the fee and ends with the fee, but he completely ignores the huge cost reduction that can be achieved by making the contractor truly liable. I hope he will remember this in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u120	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u121	I am not going to ignore that, because I recognise that this may lead to some reduction in costs, but I doubt whether it will be as large as Mr De Vries claims. I don't see any cost reductions in that order of magnitude, but maybe the Minister can convince me. In addition to the construction fee, it is of course also a question of building supervision, especially during construction. For example, in the case of a final delivery, the consumer cannot determine whether there is enough steel in the foundation. That was precisely the task of the municipality. I think that is a very important aspect. That's gotta be better. The municipalities didn't do well either. Can the Minister convince me that this is going to happen with this bill later? That's what it's about, just like there's less cost on balance instead of more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. I am the second last speaker, so much has already been said. However, I am going to repeat a number of points, because I think they are extremely important in this legal process. Construction works have become increasingly complex in recent years. This has made it more difficult for consumers, especially for private individuals, to monitor the quality of the building. The aim of this bill is to give greater responsibility to the builder and thus greater security to the consumer. D66 wholeheartedly supports this line, because it is a complete reversal of the process so far and because it strengthens the consumer. Now there is one moment of assessment, namely in the case of transfers, but this proposal also allows the consumer to obtain his right if defects occur later. Mr De Vries said in his first term that a house will become a normal product, as is the case with other products. This means that the producer has a great responsibility. We already have a lot of experience with that. D66 is very much in agreement with this line. The way I'm suggesting it, it all sounds very simple, but there's a world of complexity behind it. This changeover is a huge and incredibly complex operation. It has not been discussed for nothing for 15 years. This is certainly not the case in a day; this applies both to the contractors, the builders, and to the creation of a ZBO, the new building and housing supervision and the new quality standards. So I think it is wise that the Minister should take the time to introduce this whole process gradually and gradually, so that we can learn from the planned evaluations. That is why we are pleased that pilots have been carried out under this bill, so that we can learn from it, because of course things are not going well at once. That's what the pilots showed us. The pilot in The Hague shows that it was not for nothing that we kept a finger on the wrist. Partly on the basis of these pilots I have a number of questions about the implementation of the law. In today's debate, the focus is mainly on two main issues. The first point, raised by Mr De Vries, is that if the contractor is responsible for the quality and for the possible correction of errors after delivery, will the consumer be able to obtain his right, or will he then end up in a legal marsh, in a subordinate position? Shouldn't we take care of something for that? Mr De Vries spoke about compulsory insurance, following the Jansen/De Vries motion (32757), No. 50).................................................................................................................................................................................. I am very curious about the Minister's response to this, because I see that the individual consumer simply has less power to be right than, for example, an insurer. The second point concerns the competent authority and the letter from the G4. Mr De Vries has tabled an amendment to that effect. I am also very interested to hear the Minister's response to that amendment, because it guarantees that the competent authority has control over the technical aspects of construction. In addition, I have a number of more specific questions in addition to this. How does the law relate to local regulations? Is it true that additional local regulations remain possible? Apart from the disappearance of the preventive test, there is little change for the local authorities, or am I wrong? Which institution shall review or comply with the additional local rules? When will this happen in the construction and delivery process? We read that local authorities can enforce ex post if the additional regulation is not complied with. Then who's at risk? Then is the builder responsible, or isn't the builder responsible? Then who's gonna pay the extra cost? I'd like to get a reaction to this. We attach great importance to the evaluation to keep an eye on the pulse for careful implementation of this law, but there is still some uncertainty about the evaluation. The evaluation criteria would still be decided in 2016. Is it true that we have not yet received these criteria? At least three issues are now being considered: affordability, the actual functioning of the building quality and the effects of the disappearance of the municipal preventive review. In addition, to what extent is a total administrative burden considered? Is the level of the fee also explicitly monitored? I have a more specific question. The implementation of this law will start with class 1 follow-up. Depending on the results, the higher follow-up classes will follow later. We understand that the multi-layered apartment complexes are no longer subject to class 1. Why did the Minister choose this? Is the classification of those follow-up classes included in the evaluations later on in time? Can certain types of buildings eventually be moved to a lighter or heavier class? I would like an answer to that. My last specific point is about private commissioning. D66 attaches great importance to the possibility of private commissioning. These are usually costly routes for the consumer where a lot of care is put in by the client and architect. Now there is a fear among architects that, in addition to an architectural firm, private clients will have to use another company to guarantee quality. Can the Minister indicate whether an architect can act as a quality assurance agent for a building in private commissioning? Why can't I do that? We also like to hear the advantages and disadvantages of allowing an architect as a quality assurance officer. All in all, we have a number of general and specific questions. I am very curious to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. Let me drop by the door: the SGP finds the present proposal to emphasize the responsibility of builders sympathetic. Only the draft law leaves the necessary uncertainties to be found. We wholeheartedly support the idea that it is up to the builders and not primarily to the government to do proper work. However, when drafting this proposal, we are faced with a lack of clarity in the relationship between competent authority and private parties. This also raises the problem of the lack of experience with the proposed instruments. There have been pilots and lessons have been learned from them, but then you should actually do a pilot again under the custom conditions to see what its effect is. It's gonna take some time. If we introduce the proposal too quickly and not enough time is taken to learn from pilots as we do, the whole process is at great risk. Especially for vulnerable categories such as monuments, that risk is not imaginary. I would have liked to ask a question about the fee, but it has been discussed extensively and several times during the interruptions and in the contributions of colleagues. So I'm not going to repeat it. I would like to join with the questions on this subject. I have already pointed out that, as far as we are concerned, the introduction of this bill in the short term does not seem advisable. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how the government is going to assess whether the first step and the follow-up steps can be taken and what due diligence is required as a guarantee. The SGP calls for particular attention to monuments. In the long term, the legislative proposal could improve that category. In the current system there are regular complaints about the execution of works on monuments and insufficient monitoring of the use of high-quality parties. In the short term, however, additional risks arise here. It is still unclear what the effectiveness of the proposed instruments will be. I also hear concerns about a planned undesirable separation between building technology and monument quality. I would ask the Minister to respond and at least reassure us. Given the fragile nature of monuments, the SGP considers that special treatment for that category is obvious. My question is therefore whether there is room for a separate entry into force for monuments within the next class. I mentioned the relationship between the competent authority and private parties. That point keeps raising questions. The government indicates in different keys that it is obvious that municipalities are in contact with quality assurance agencies and the admission organisation. However, the absence of a clear regime leaves much uncertain. The SGP aims to exclude as far as possible that municipalities continue to interfere with supervision on the one hand and on the other hand are wrongly held responsible for reporting shortcomings on the other. The SGP considers it self-evident that municipalities should be able to take enforcement action when unsafe situations arise, but when it comes to building quality, according to the SGP, this is not obvious. Why does this proposal not ensure that municipalities are only encouraged during the construction process when those responsible fail? In passing, the government mentions that other measures must first be exhausted, but this is not very clear from the proposal. A further clarification could be useful in this respect. The SGP also likes to hear in detail how the government sees the process for itself when the municipality receives a file for ready notification. To what extent does a test take place on the architectural quality? What does the government expect of municipalities? The government states that the legislative proposal not only retains the responsibility for important elements such as safety and fire safety, but also that the energy performance, usability and environmental performance remain under municipal supervision. Is it not contrary to the principles of the bill that municipalities can still look at? This is particularly true when there is no reason to question the presumption of evidence. Why are such elements not excluded from municipal supervision, especially as the contractor's liability is increased? Is it not strange, by the way, that the legislative proposal and the draft decision seem to be silent on this point? Finally, I come to the contractor's liability. This has already been discussed at length. I shall make a few points. Strengthening the contractor's liability is a benefit to the SGP in the proposal, in particular as regards the position of vulnerable individuals. The SGP likes to be heard in the response to the Ronnes amendment to item No. 9 whether this amendment is also necessary and desirable for commercial parties. I do not yet have an opinion on that amendment. Maybe it's still being modified. We are happy to see and to hear the Minister's reflection on this. Does this amendment not remove an important incentive to seriously monitor commercial clients for shortcomings? Does this fit into our legal system? How is it practiced in other countries? I would like to hear the Minister's response to this. According to the SGP, the proposed regime for liability in respect of the supply of construction works is still unclear. That means extra food for lawyers. With all due respect to this profession, I'm not that excited about that. I mean, I'm not so excited that there's gonna be extra feed for litigation in which lawyers have to mingle. It is an increase in uncertainty for citizens. In the current system, uncertainty is mainly due to the question of whether non-listed defects are hidden in the delivery process. However, the transfer of in principle all liability to the contractor inevitably raises the question of what can reasonably be expected of the client. What to do if the client has noticed a defect in delivery but not mentioned? That's not in protocol. What to do if a visible deficiency is only presented as a problem by the client after months or is experienced as a problem? How do we prevent damage caused by use from being placed in the contractor's shoes? The SGP welcomes a response to these three categories. Does the discovery of the defects have the actual meaning of being recorded in the minutes? Or does it also have a normative charge: that which should have been reasonably discovered? These are pretty fundamental questions for us. I am very interested in the Minister's response to this. I'm afraid I have to apologize. I have other obligations and therefore cannot attend the Minister's reply. I will continue my course weeping, because I am not offered that opportunity. But you can be assured that the group staff will follow the answers with spicy ears. Madam President, I hope you will excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u124	I think that's inevitable sometimes. It is, as Mr Bishop says, a small group. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, the installations turned out to work here. As all speakers have noted, quality assurance in construction has been the subject of discussion in the Netherlands for a long time. That is, of course, because it is an incredibly important subject. Almost every Dutchman, whether he is a tenant, house owner or entrepreneur, has a few times in his life to do with the construction. They are often very profound and also beautiful moments, when something beautiful new is delivered and put into use. It's also very exciting moments. Despite the great efforts of many, the builders themselves, building and housing supervision and others, there is too often a moment of disappointment, either directly or after a while, because it is not what the consumer thought he had ordered. In the most extreme cases, it can even lead to unsafe situations. We have seen this in the current system. Unfortunately, it can never be ruled out that mistakes are made where people work. A new system cannot therefore completely rule that out. The accidents, which fortunately do not occur so often, but sometimes, indicate that there can be real risks, also in the current system. In fact, over the last 20 years, but also today, when I listen to the Members of Parliament in this way, it has been found quite broad that there are a number of shortcomings. I hear very widely that the position of the consumer is not good enough, because of the special regime of liability in the case of a contract of acceptance. However, I also hear very widely that due to a number of changes, the current system is no longer working properly, despite the great commitment of many employees of building and housing supervision. This is because buildings, be they houses or other buildings, have become much more complex. In the past only the constructive safety was considered: is the foundation good, is there sufficient quantity and are the supporting structures good? That was important enough, but now many more demands are being made on a building. Some have already been mentioned here, such as energy performance requirements or the quality of ventilation, which have also caused annoying problems. This type of supervision does not traditionally carry out building and housing supervision. That makes sense, too, because that was never expected of them. Now, however, the consumer expects that. The buildings have become much more complex and there are also many more parties involved. There are therefore very good reasons for adapting the system. As far as possible, the various parties have been taken into account throughout the preliminary phase, which started around the year 2000. I have also said in an earlier discussion that there is deafening lobbying around this. I am not disappointed in that, nor do I believe the Chamber. That too is understandable, because there are a lot of people with heart and soul involved in the construction. There are also a lot of people making a good living from it, or hoping to do so. It is inevitable that at such a moment you will hear a lot of sounds from people who had hoped that the outcome would fall a bit more in their direction, but in the end it is up to the Chamber or the government to make a proper assessment. Mr Madlener asked the most explicit question as to why you really want to change anything about this. In view of this explanatory statement, which most of the Members of Parliament gave, I do not think that maintaining the current system is really justified. I do not think that we need to convince each other that liability is so limited in a contract of acceptance. I could easily get rid of it by saying: well, then we just do that. I believe that there is a very broad majority in favour of this, but that does not solve another problem. Quality control is very important. I repeat that problems in the most extreme cases lead to very dangerous situations. What do you have liability for if the building collapses? In very threatening situations, it is more common for the government to take up its role and say: we not only regulate this through liability, but also act as a standard with legislation. I think that quality assurance really needs to be improved. It is true that a lot of municipal building and housing control authorities are doing well, but I think that also the MPs have spoken to many contractors who could tell that in a lot of municipalities nobody is going to look at them at all. When the question comes to mind whether I really don't mean anyone, the answer to that is: with no one, I mean no one. Especially at a time when less was built and the municipal finances were under pressure, municipalities sometimes reduced the departments that go about it significantly. Unfortunately, despite the great efforts made in many places, the current situation does not lead to proper monitoring everywhere. Secondly, the control that is taking place is often a paper check. Mr Ronnes was quite right to point that out. Then it's checked on the basis of the blueprint. Changes often occur in the course of the process, but they are no longer considered. What quality has been assessed? Not the one from the building that's finally there. I would make it easier for myself to settle only the first part, the liability, but we all have the responsibility for this and I, as responsible minister, the most explicit thing that is being built in the Netherlands well, safe, consumer-friendly and cost-effective. Indeed, these 10% failure costs are simply lost money and they are ultimately paid by the consumer. However, I believe that this responsibility requires me to present it in combination, so that we can make that quality impact and make the construction process more efficient. In short, the two parts belong together as far as I am concerned, but because it is already complicated enough, I will tear them apart again in my answer. I will first answer the questions that have been asked about the contractor's liability. I do that in the order of the questioners. I will then answer the questions that have been asked about the new quality assurance system. I do that again in the order in which the questions were asked. So I come first to questions of liability. Mr De Vries asked if I could confirm that liability for all construction works is being tightened up, including those for which no permit is required. The answer to that is yes. In the case of liability, we make no distinction between buildings with or without a permit. Mr De Vries's next question was whether there were, on balance, sufficient financial incentives for the contractor to remedy the deficiencies found. My answer to that too is yes. In this respect, there is a overlap with quality assurance. If a quality assurance officer finds somewhere in the process that the quality requirements are not met, he will say: "Dear contractor, you must recover or else you will not get that approval at the end and the building cannot be put into service." But even if it does not appear in that quality assurance process, the buyer of the building will be able, precisely because of this improved liability, to keep the contractor to the proper functioning of that building. And so the contractor has to recover, so it is also fully affected by the financial consequences of inadequate work. Then Mr De Vries also asks whether the bill promotes standardisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u126	I shall come back to the previous point. When a building is inaugurated, an agreement must be reached. But what about the supervision during construction? That construction is very important, and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u127	Certainly, I agree with that, but I will go into that in detail when I talk about the other part, namely quality assurance. This was about liability. There was a slight overlap with the quality assurance because two places that costs can be placed with the contractor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u128	So your point comes back, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u129	Yeah, it's coming back explicitly. Mr De Vries therefore asked whether standardisation would be promoted by this bill. I agree with him that standardisation helps enormously if we want to build good homes quickly. Affordable building is important in this respect, but it is also important that at least in parts of the country there is now again a strong housing forecast. This quality assurance is becoming more extensive than it is now. Let me start from the example that Mr Ronnes mentioned, of your drawing being checked, and no more than that. As quality assurance becomes more extensive than it is today, the builder, as well as the supplier of quality assurance instruments, has a huge interest in ensuring that instruments are both sound and efficient at the same time. If they are not sound, they will not be approved by the national inspection authority. If they're not efficient, it's gonna be a very expensive process. There will also, I am sure, be several providers. That is also good, because then users will see what is at the same time the most sound and the most affordable route to do so. The use of standards, for example in the field of applied materials, naturally helps greatly to reduce the regulatory burden of quality assurance. So yes, standardised materials and procedures clearly have an advantage in such a quality assurance process. Then Mr De Vries asked when a client was "professional." This concept is reflected more widely in legislation. In addition, the definition is always that a client is professional if he does not act as a natural person. That is to say, in an occupation or in a business. That can indeed be done, and I shall now come to Mr Ronnes' amendment, which is the agricultural entrepreneur with a single company or a self-employed person. In the case of the farm or the farm hall, it acts in the context of his profession. That will then be seen as a professional client.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u130	I expected this answer. My question is whether the Minister thinks that this is justified, given the risks that all those non-natural people, who once do something, are at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u131	I think the bill is justified. The bill stipulates that the contractor is liable for what he delivers, regardless of whether the customer is a natural person or is acting on appeal or business. Mr Ronnes wants to make a distinction. I'll get to that later. The law also makes a distinction, but in a different way than Mr Ronnes. The law stipulates: if the client acts as a professional, the contractor may make an explicit agreement with him that liability is otherwise regulated. This can no longer be done through general terms and conditions, as is happening now. An explicit appointment may be made, but no longer in silence through the fine print of the general terms and conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u132	Then it is crucial: is the contractor allowed to enforce it, or is it only allowed to do so if the contractor agrees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u133	Agreements concluded under the influence of coercion, error and deception, I recall the right of initiation, null and void. Of course, if there is coercion, the agreement is not valid. There are two adult parties on the table, the customer of which is given extra protection by this change of law, even if he is a customer in the context of a profession or business. The standard situation is also for him that the contractor is fully liable. Only the contractor can make him a request, an offer, not in the general terms and conditions but really very explicit, to arrange the liability differently in that case. The buyer does not have to go into that. The current situation is that it is in the general terms and conditions. I leave it in the middle or always well read, but negotiating general terms and conditions is a very complicated process. That position really improves greatly, also for the professional client. Then Mr De Vries asked, in line with the attention he asked earlier for insurance, whether it is logical that a market for first party insurance should be created, so that the client of the home can be protected and cared for and the position of that client becomes even stronger, because then it is the insurer who, on his behalf, is competing with the contractor. This type of insurance already exists in other countries which have more stringent rules on the contractor's liability. I think it is obvious and I think it is also an asset to the consumer's choice if there is to be such insurance. So I am also willing to go to the table with the Association of Insurance Companies to see if there is any need to push it. My natural tendency is to think that the market will pick that up, but I'd be happy to start that discussion. Mr De Vries asked about the position of the next owner or tenant of a building when the warranty period is still running. He asked if the next owner or the tenant there would appeal. Now about 85% of homes are already being built under one of the three guarantee schemes. In any case, it is already very clear that the guarantee will be transferred to the new owner within the relevant time limit. As far as the other group is concerned, I would like to find out more about how we can do this in a practical way. Part of it follows from the law, but I understand Mr De Vries in such a way that he wants to see clearly how the next owner can make use of it. I'll investigate that, along with the builders and others involved. We'll see what we can do about it. When it comes to the tenant, there may be a complicated situation. This was also the subject of an interruption with Mr Van der Linde. The tenant's position is now strong and legally clear. The landlord has to deliver decent living pleasure. If the landlord does not deliver this, the tenant, often assisted by the rental commission, can obtain his right. I think the situation becomes more complicated when you bring an extra player into the game. If the tenant could also go to the contractor, it would be complicated anyway, but then a malicious landlord or a lawyer who slept well could say to the complainant tenant: you shouldn't be with me, you should be with the contractor. With which the tenant ends up in an endless legal swamp, while the swamp is not there now, because now it is very clear: if the tenant does not get a decent living enjoyment, he goes to the landlord, possibly supported by the rental committee. If the tenant is right and something needs to be repaired, the landlord will find out if he can then tell the contractor. I think it's pure to do it that way. However, I would be happy to look at the first part of the question, which relates to the subsequent buyer, at least for that part which is not covered by any of the guarantee schemes, to see how we can put it even better in position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u134	Mr De Vries, are you going to interrupt everything? I'd like to keep up the momentum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u135	In the end, we want a bill that works well in practice. For that, some questions are really essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u136	Everything we deal with here is essential.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u137	Well, then, you actually agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u138	But don't interrupt too often, because otherwise I'm really gonna step in. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u139	I understand the Minister's story. In the interrupting debate I also acknowledged that the tenant should be with the landlord. However, I would like to see how this tenant can be taken care of as much as possible and the landlord has recourse to the liability of that builder. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u140	I had already promised that for that group of buyers who are not covered by the guarantee scheme, I will further identify how they can achieve their rights. I would like to add that I will also see if there is any reason from the tenant's position to provide clarification or tightening up. Then something about the insurance that a contractor could take out or offer. Mr De Vries rightly said that this should not become a system where all the incentives disappear. I agree with him. France seems to have a system with compulsory insurance, which has as its side effect that the contractor, because he knows that the bill is still spread over all kinds of other contractors, is less sharp when it comes to quality. I already indicated that I am going to sit down with the insurers and also this subject........................................................................................................................................................................... Oh, I'll talk to you about it. I will inform the Chamber on both subjects. Mr De Vries asked whether there could be a register in which each contractor would be able to see whether they had been called upon to deliver it according to the agreement. I'm just checking with builders to see if they can. It has great advantages, I agree with Mr De Vries, but it is quite complicated. In fact, there can be a great deal of damage in the event of an unjustified report. That also raises the question of who will keep that register. Suppose someone says "the government's gonna do that." It's a pretty dangerous job. Before making such a public, you must know very well whether it is really 100% sure and whether it is entirely attributable to the contractor. You need to know if what you write is right. After all, you're publicly embarrassing someone with that. I'm not saying I don't want a system like that. I'm also in agreement, but we have to settle that part well with each other. How do you ensure that the consumer has a good understanding, that the truth is not violated and that it is possible to keep such a register without needing malicious procedures to keep liability claims? I will come back to that too. Mr De Vries asked for a look at the future to look at the retention right of 5% of the assumption. In many agreements, the house may be kept for three months after delivery of most of the houses. The law says that the builder should explicitly point out to the client the right to retain that 5%. Mr De Vries says that this is complicated for smaller builders and wonders whether the right of retention in relation to insurance cannot be relaxed somewhat. I find it difficult to make a statement on this right now. This is one of the elements of the law that strengthens the position of consumers. I also thought that the Chamber would agree that this position should be strengthened, without putting the builder in an impossible position immediately. I realize that some of the builders have to wait a little longer for that last 5%, but if they've just done some decent work, they will. After three years, an evaluation will be carried out. A number of Members also asked for this. In addition, we are going to introduce this very carefully. I would like to take this aspect into account in the evaluation, but I find it difficult to make a commitment on the outcome already. The commitment is: we will explicitly include it in the evaluation. Finally, Mr De Vries has tabled an amendment to the liability section. The purpose of this is to sum up the disrespect, for it is a long amendment that the contractor cannot limit or exclude liability for proper performance to the extent that the client is a person who does not act in the exercise of a profession or business. In fact, for the vast majority of cases, this is already the case. The draft law gives the contractor full liability and is therefore also liable for the conduct of subcontractors working on his behalf. In addition, a contractor is obliged to warn if a client comes with his/her own wishes or with other parties who do jobs, if there is reason to do so. But there may be situations in which a client orders and continues to give orders despite that warning. The contractor doesn't have his own hand in that. For example, it may be an assignment from an architect; that may happen. If the client has an architect who comes up with something that the contractor explicitly says he really doesn't think is wise, but if the contractor does, because the client says "I want you to do so," then it is not reasonable for the contractor to be liable. In these cases, this amendment would go through. An amendment is an immediate part of the law, so that is very unbearable. I therefore advise against this amendment in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u141	What I mean is that the contractor can just say no; he can just do that. If he can't do the job without fault, he can say no; that's what I'm aiming for. That makes the liability absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u142	It makes the liability clear, but the question is whether that is fair in this case. The contractor pointed out the risks. The client or the architect insists, but then the account does not go to the client who insists or to the architect but to the contractor. From the point of view of justice, that is a question. If the amendment were to be adopted again, in this form I would advise against the amendment, then there is also a chance that a judge will explain it in this way. It then becomes more complicated, because a judge will then say on the basis of general principles of law that you cannot reasonably attribute this to that contractor. I understand that Mr De Vries is trying to simplify the situation, but my main concern is that it becomes more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u143	Again, it's my intention that we should be able to force the contractor to see if he can make it flawless. If he can't make it clear, he can just say no. If that's possible in construction and in construction, then we're really where we need to be. Then it's always clear who's responsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u144	But then you're going to introduce the weird aspect in society that a contractor has indicated that a support bar should really stay in the room, is liable at the moment when the architect who made the sums or the client says: I really don't want that support bar there in my room, really! That doesn't make any sense. That goes against the sense of justice. I don't think it's necessary either. We have indeed extended the liability of the contractor, at least I hope that will be the case if this bill is adopted, but that is for the things he is really responsible for. This is really gonna take you a step further. You're going to introduce a strange figure into our law. I understand the intention to simplify this, but this has no simplification effect. I'm sticking to the issue of liability. Mr Van der Linde asked whether I agree that an incompetent private individual deserves more legal protection than a professional contractor, a housing corporation or the National Real Estate Company. I agree. This is also reflected in the law, because the contractor cannot exclude that increased liability for the private person, but it does so for the professional client. However, this is via a more explicit route than now through the general terms and conditions. In addition, Mr Van der Linde asked whether a judge would also take into account the size and professionalism of the parties. I can confirm that, too. That is a general principle in the way the law is applied in the Netherlands, taking into account what that party should reasonably know and should do. These general principles are of course also important with regard to this particular law. Hence the debate on that amendment. Mr Ronnes is asking questions about liability. His first question is whether we are not restricting the freedom of contract for professional clients. The general argument is that any law relating to contracts restricts the freedom of contract somewhat, because the basic statement would be that everything is allowed that two adult people meet up with each other and that they should settle it themselves. That position has been abandoned somewhere in Hammurabi's time. However, if I take a more precise approach, the freedom of contract will in any case not be unnecessarily restricted, because that particular business party can still get the offer from a contractor to settle the liability differently when that is not possible in the case of a private client. For the private client, therefore, the freedom of contract in the context of consumer protection is further restricted, but for the business client there is still the possibility to make a very explicit different arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u145	It is good that there is such a possibility, but the practice will be that the contracting party, in this case, is the professional contracting party, which is the party issuing the contract. If he sits at the negotiating table with a contractor, he can make the best demands for a contract. This possibility may work well, but the question is whether this will be the case in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u146	This is directly linked to the amendment that I am now coming up with. In my view, there is no other logical route to keep the balance between consumer protection and contract freedom than to say that we are protecting small private consumers and that the professional consumer can explicitly deviate from that in the contract with his contractor. I do not think we have a different opinion on the position of the private individual. On the basis of the interrupting debate, I got the impression that Mr Ronnes indicated that he could also imagine intermediate categories. I tried to imagine that we would ask the President of LTO what he thinks that all his members are no longer protected by liability in this law. He'd probably say, "I thought I had a note on that the other day; I'll put "LTO" up there and send it to you. This will probably not only be done by the chairman of LTO, but will also be done by the chairman of Retailers Netherlands. He will also say that the average shopkeeper is already having a hard time, that he doesn't just remodel his shop, but that person will then be treated as a large client. I think Mr Ronnes and I agree on this category. But then you come to a very complicated category, namely that of the school and the hospital. Are those professional counterparties, or aren't they? The average school board will never build a school, but once in a long time they have to do so. Is that a professional opponent? What about the hospital? There are also situations in which the quality is extremely important and I would not like to say that we do not have the protection of the liability of the contractor that we want to offer now and that we can do so if we want to do so in very good consultation because, for example, we have taken up a good accompaniment party that claims to be able to arrange it. I've been on a school board before, and I'm sure I'm not the only one here. We ourselves felt that our school board was very competent, but I would not claim that we were a professional party in the field of construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u147	With this example, you're hitting the nail on the head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u148	That seems to me to be an appropriate metaphor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u149	Yeah, in the construction business, yeah. In practice you can see that school boards in the construction of schools also have municipalities at the table, but the school boards are themselves responsible as a rule hire professional parties to do so. I dare say that the school boards do this in 99.99% of the cases. The construction supervision that is put on it is often done by highly skilled people who know very well what they do and what they can't do. In this way they can influence the construction process. That is exactly what my amendment is about. That professional relationship should not freak out in throwing responsibility over the wall to the contractor alone. You can see there's an exaggeration at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u150	I hope that Mr Ronnes agrees with me that the current wording of the amendment does not have the effect of protecting the farmer who orders a renovation and that the school is considered professional in this case. The current wording means that the farmer and the shopkeeper do not have that protection either. Or do we disagree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u151	I have just mentioned this in the interim debate. The purpose of the amendment is precisely to shape the relationship you have just described with the example of a school in a good way. I agree with you that in the case of a baker who puts a rooftop chapel or something that suits his company, on his company or an farmer who does a small approach, there is no question of a professional client. I would be happy to clarify the amendment to that effect that it is really about the professional parties, for example when a school board hires real specialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u152	I am glad that we are getting closer to each other in this respect, that we agree that the text needs to be amended. I am afraid, however, that it is very difficult, perhaps impossible, to distinguish between more and less professional parties in a law. I am now discussing the example of the school and the hospital with Mr Ronnes. I'm just looking at the mimics of the people around him and I don't know if we all agree that a school is always a professional adversary; some people are starting to nod. Try putting that into a law. You're really gonna be on a very complicated path. The question is whether that is necessary. I don't think so, because the law already makes that distinction: a private contractor is always protected. If the contractor makes a reasonable offer, the school can agree to do it differently. The law is therefore not cast in concrete on that point, to use an appropriate imagery. That can be done at that school, at that hospital and at that housing corporation, but I fear that any other solution will become very complex or affect a group that also does not want to touch Mr Ronnes; I think we have found each other in it. I understand that Mr Ronnes is still thinking about a wording. I'm always willing to think about that, but it's gonna be really hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u153	Mr Ronnes, would you like to add something on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u154	Yeah, I'd love to. I would like to take advantage of the Minister's thought-out and I am certainly going to breed well to see if we can come to a precise definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u155	If there is an amended amendment, I will, of course, give an opinion to the Chamber. That will have to be done later, in writing. Mr Bashir started, understandably, with the question of why insurance compulsory for all contracts of acceptance is not provided for in the law, because a motion has indeed been passed on that. I didn't take that motion lightly. I hope I never do that in my work, especially if that means that we have to lay down something in the law. So I asked for legal advice, which I also sent to the Chamber. The conclusion of that opinion is that such an obligation is not sensible for a number of reasons. This most likely complicates the position of small contractors, as it will be more expensive for them to take out insolvency insurance. After all, it is quite a job for an insurer to assess all those accounts of small contractors. Annual accounts, of course, always show the state of play a year ago. These small contractors are likely to receive substantial premiums. This will lead to a preference for large contractors. The report also highlights this risk. In addition, there is a reasonable chance that there will be no insurance for a number of types of construction because the market finds it too specific. The question then arises as to whether we no longer want these buildings as metro stations, hospitals or other complex buildings, or whether an exception should be included in the law. In fact, such an insurance system would be a very large privatisation. This law is not privatisation. Mr Bashir suggests this. Mr De Vries began by saying that this is not a privatisation. I agree with him, because there will be a national supervisory organisation to see whether quality assurance is being properly carried out. If you were to say "we're gonna stop quality control because the insurers are gonna do it," that's a full privatisation unless I'm wrong. The only situation in which there is no privatisation is if it is chosen to do both. This means that building and housing supervision is maintained and the insurer is called on. However, I am sure that not only will the fee not go down, but more will have to be paid. In fact, this picture is also reflected in the opinion I had drafted and sent to the Chamber. That is why I have also said, on the basis of the opinion, that we are looking for a viable variant that benefits the consumer, but which does not lead to stupid accounts. This means that consumers are explicitly informed about the insurance situation and the possibilities of supplementing it with insurance. This has been a well-considered process which has led to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u156	These arguments are not new; they have been extensively exchanged between Chamber and Cabinet. As a result, a motion has been tabled which has been adopted by Parliament. Only the VVD voted against it; all other parties voted in favour. That also makes sense, because we want to protect the consumer. This is, of course, outside the privatisation debate, which concerns the question of whether the supervision of municipalities or private parties is being laid down. It is intended that a consumer may fall back on an insurance policy if, after a few months, a half year or a year after the delivery of his home, he finds that there are defects and the contractor has disappeared, is found to be bankrupt or is found to have stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u157	I understand that, but it is important for my answer that Mr Bashir clarify whether he wants insurance on top of existing building and housing supervision or not. That makes a lot of difference before it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u158	I'll mention two things. Firstly, the G4 proposal, namely the involvement of the municipality. We would like to, but perhaps the Minister will come back to that in a moment. Secondly, we want this and then on top of the current provisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u159	That is clear, because then the message to the consumer is that municipal construction and housing supervision will remain with all the pros and cons, but also with the current fees, because that system will not be changed, so the fees will certainly not go down and that he will be obliged to take out insurance, with all the consequences. The small contractor will, if he can assure himself, pay fairly large premiums. This means that the construction becomes significantly more expensive with possible consequences specific to the small contractor. Well, that's clear. Again, I didn't make it all up myself, but I had it properly investigated, which I sent to the Chamber. But considering all this, I do not think it is proper legislation. I do understand the desire to take care of consumers and give them a better position. That is why, partly on the basis of the opinion, we are going to give a much clearer picture of the possibility of insurance. I have just sent a letter of amendment which makes it clear once again that the information must be ready to the consumer. That's really different from stacking insurance on top of building and housing supervision or stacking costs. I come to Mr Bishop, whom I now address through his always attentive collaborators. He asked whether it would be possible for commercial clients to limit the contractor's liability. The answer to that is yes, as I have just explained. This must then be laid down in a very explicit way, not in general terms and conditions. Mr. Bishop asked for damage. He mentioned three cases: damage seen on delivery by the buyer but not reported, damage reported after a while and damage caused by the user himself, but which he pretends to have done so. Damage in delivery is a visible defect, otherwise you will not see it on delivery. It is then logical to conclude that not only the buyer could have seen it, but also the contractor. I don't think it's weird that you say, "We're not gonna talk, 'cause you could've noticed both of this." In the context of the clarity which Mr De Vries always points out, I would say: 'Dear contractor, because you have to repair the damage', it would be useful if you also report it immediately when you see it. If the damage is discovered later, it is important whether it is mentioned in the delivery report. That will obviously not be the case. Then the contractor's liability will simply apply, at least within the time limits laid down. If the damage is caused by the client's use but he claims it to the contractor under the warranty period, the law explicitly states that damage attributable to the contractor can be recovered. That also makes sense; that is a general principle of justice. If the contractor then starts chopping, breaking or doing other wild things, that cannot be attributed to the contractor. In doing so, I hope to have answered the questions on liability and I will go to the questions and amendments on the new quality assurance procedure. I shall begin again with Mr De Vries. His first question was: are quality assurance staff going to communicate with the municipality about defects they find? Others, such as Mr Ronnes, also went into this. I do want to record that in the AMvB. I think it is a justified addition, which has been made a number of times in this debate. It is also in line with the Registrar's remark. If the quality assurance officer discovers shortcomings during the construction process, he will report them not only to the contractor, who will then of course have to restore them, but also to the competent authority. The competent authority is not obliged to look, because the quality assurance officer is still responsible, also for whether he gives final approval. But that's how the competent authority gets signals during the construction process. Mr De Vries asked for Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act to be declared applicable. Article 2 means that the financial consequences for municipalities must be verifiable. It follows from the nature of that law that I do not have to declare it applicable. After all, it always applies, at least if there are financial consequences. That is why, together with the VNG, I have had an investigation conducted into the resulting tasks and therefore costs for municipalities following the introduction of this law. That research was offered to the House of Representatives last December. I will, of course, continue to monitor these costs and also the fee............................................................................................................................................................................ Mr De Vries pointed out that there could indeed be risks within sub-class 1 with major consequences for residents or users. As a result, class 1 includes the least complex buildings, but these are buildings with great interests; they have people living in them. I fully agree with Mr De Vries. The fact that these buildings in class 1 would be the first to be covered by the functioning of the law means, as I say, that they would be covered by the functioning of the law and thus by quality assurance. This is therefore an improvement on the current situation. Mr De Vries mentioned the example of ventilation. Again, with all due respect for municipal building and housing supervision: it is certainly not part of the current practice in the Netherlands to look at the quality of ventilation. That will be in the quality assurance system, also in Class 1. That is why I am enthusiastically defending not only the liability part of the law, but also the new quality assurance system. There's gonna be a new law, so we're gonna need quality assurance. Mr De Vries asked understandably whether there really are. As I have already outlined, we have had a process of consultation with all possible stakeholders for many years. This issue has also been addressed. The general assessment, including mine, is that it is possible to have those expert people available. Some of them will be people who are now working in municipal building and housing supervision. It is not the case that this completely disappears, because the heavier risk classes continue to be covered. But in part, those people will be available to do this job, but as quality assurance. That is also the answer to Mr Bashir's question as to how I deal with the concerns about employment. Well, this law will certainly not reduce employment in quality assurance. Employment will partly shift from municipalities to private quality assurance institutions, but the work will not disappear. In fact, it's gonna get more intense. So there is no need to worry about employment. Mr De Vries asked when there are procedures for liability and quality. Can we ensure that an expert college is available, because this is generally a very technical area for civil courts? For example, Mr De Vries mentioned NEN. For a very large part of the construction contracts, at least for housing, these three well-known guarantee schemes are now in force. They have dispute committees, specifically for new construction, cultivation and dismantling. What seems most obvious to me, because NEN actually has a different role in that construction process. In consultation with the Disputes Committee, we can look at how a dispute committee can be made possible for that part of the private clients, because it is not there now. That's what I'm gonna have to find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u160	I understand that, but I didn't mean that NEN should be that dispute committee. However, I can imagine that if there is a dispute committee that needs a work machine. I made the suggestion to choose NEN for that. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u161	I am taking homework in such a way that I am going to see if I can make available a similar route for those consumers who are not linked to the guarantee schemes via the Disputes Committee. I understand Mr De Vries' ambition to have a lighter and more technical procedure than to go to court. I can keep an eye on NEN, but that's not the only option. I come again to Mr De Vries' amendments. In the amendment to item No. 12 he notes that municipalities remain the competent authority and that it is important for municipalities to know where risky parts are in the building. In order to carry out this task, the applicant should have a risk analysis of the construction plan prepared and added to the application. On this basis, an inspection plan may be drawn up by the competent authority. This amendment contains parts that I find sympathetic and share that I would rather not see. This is also in line with the G4 letter that, at the beginning of the section, there is also the possibility for the municipalities, indeed the competent authority, to understand the risks of this project. I could do that by including in the AMvB a rule in which I say that the inspection plan for that construction project should also be sent to the competent authority. I have just indicated that I am willing to include in the AMvB the rule that if the quality assurance officer finds shortcomings during his work, he will send them to the competent authority. I would add that the inspection plan must be sent to the competent authority at the beginning. I think it goes too far that the municipality should work on the basis of that inspection plan, because you will then get a mixture of the old and the new system. The new system says that the quality assurance system must do its job and finally sign it. That file goes to the municipality and then the municipality can say that the building is ready and can be used. If you are going to assign extra tasks to the municipality by law, this would be done by this amendment, you will also bring responsibilities to the municipality. That becomes vulnerable to the municipality, because a large part of my conversation with the VNG was about the liability of the municipality. It is extremely restrictive and clear by the legislative proposal now before the Chamber. The municipality suspects evidence because the quality assurance officer, who has also been approved under our national system, has found it and has signed it. The municipality can then easily refer to the quality assurance provider. If it is now included in the law that the municipality not only receives such a file, but also has to assess the substance of the risk analysis, you will get mixed up with a complex liability position as a result. Is it possible to reduce municipal costs and fees? Probably not or only very difficult, because such a diffuse responsibility usually leads people to sit on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u162	I can partially follow the Minister's reasoning, but what I do not want is that a municipality receiving an inspection plan should not find any of that. It's about liability. That quality assurance officer is also not liable. When it comes to making sense of where the risks are, I think that the municipality should be able to find something of that inspection plan that it is being offered. I am thinking, for example, of monument communities that really want to control those monumental things. If that is not in the inspection plan, then a municipality should be able to add it. That is what I am trying to do with my amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u163	The municipality can find something, because she is competent authority. The municipality may also request information at any time. It must also be delivered, because the municipality is competent authority. But what we should not do is to return this task to the municipality, because then such a municipality will have to work and it will be held liable again. That is why I am making an offer with which I hope to make the amendment superfluous. I hope, with my two promises, which we are going to record neatly in the AMvB, which, moreover, the Chamber is simply being given the opportunity to address, without creating a whole new problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u164	On the contrary, I think it is a good amendment. It could be an addition to the bill that removes the concerns of the municipalities. Suppose the amendment is adopted. How are we going to ensure that the municipalities also have the money to carry out supervision properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u165	That is a good question for the author of the amendment, because I did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u166	I think that was not your intention, Mr Bashir.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u167	No, that question is before the Minister. The Minister proposes a system change. There's still a few holes in it. If the municipality has responsibilities, it must intervene if something goes wrong with the construction. If she has no information at all and cannot carry out her duties... This amendment solves that problem, but then the Minister has a financial problem. He's got to fix that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u168	The answer to that is a clear no. I've been doing the nice work across the street for a long time. Uncovered amendments are already discouraged, regardless of any good intentions, for that reason alone. That was not my motivation, by the way. I have tried to meet Mr De Vries in a way that does not involve financial issues. No matter how many times Mr Bashir repeats it, I will never provide cover for uncovered amendments that I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u169	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u170	Then the Minister has a problem, because I can easily imagine that this amendment will be adopted. And then the Minister still has to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u171	I have a very small question, because we're not that far apart. The municipality is competent authority. Can it take action and provide guidance on the basis of its enforcement role at the time when it receives the inspection plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u172	She can do that, but if you ask me if I recommend a congregation to get into that very much, my answer is no. I don't think that's wise. The municipality has the power to maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u173	I don't think it's very important what the Minister thinks, but I think it's important that he says what he can. We're very close together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u174	A municipality is allowed to maintain. By the way, she can always do that. She can ask for all the information for it, and she should get it. On balance, I hope that Mr De Vries will withdraw the amendment on the basis of my commitment to amend the AMvB in this way. If he doesn't like the AMvB, I'll run into him again. Mr Van der Linde discussed in detail the financial consequences of this law. The report to which I referred, which was sent to the Chamber in December, states that the cost reduction resulting from this law is expected to amount to between 230 and 290 million. I am only taking a close look at Mr Madlener because if the law is not passed, he can be sure that the costs are not going to fall! It is estimated that the shift from municipal tasks to quality assurance will reduce costs by that amount. Mr Madlener's follow-up question is, of course, what happens to the fee. Mr Van der Linde also asked that question, pointing out that there is an article in the Wabo which allows the Empire to intervene in this area. I think... no, I don't think so, because the Chamber has heard me say it often: I think we should deal with our fellow governments carefully. We have agreed with them that they can only determine the fee covering costs. Moreover, from this year on, they must show how they calculate the amount of the fee. I have had good discussions with the VNG in the years of its introduction. I therefore assume that the fee will be adjusted downwards. Mr Van der Linde is right that that article is not in the Wabo for nothing. After the implementation of the law, we will look at whether the fee really goes down. I'm assuming this is happening, but if it doesn't happen, I'm gonna go with the congregations. If the costs are reduced but the fees are not, then we must not shy away from applying the law. I hope that won't be necessary and I don't expect it to be necessary, but that law is there for a reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u175	For years we have been calling on the cabinet to intervene in the municipal fees, because we see that a lot of municipalities are paying inexhaustibly high fees. So far, the Minister has always said, no, we leave them alone and I'm going to talk to them first. But we keep seeing that high fee. The differences between municipalities are unacceptable and this justifies the conclusion that some or a lot of municipalities abuse these fees. The Minister now undertakes to keep an eye on it, but I want action from the Minister if it turns out that the fee does not go down with this budgeted amount. Is it a promise from the Minister that his successors will, of course, be kept to that promise that he will intervene? Can I address the minister's successor in a subsequent cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u176	It starts with the question of whether the law will be passed, because if the law is not passed, there is no reason for a decrease. If the law is passed, we're going to see if there's a drop. I can't guarantee that we'll see it as early as 2018. It's good to get back to that now, because it makes sense for the municipalities to gradually give supervision its new form. I do think there should be a decrease. I did not say for nothing, even to Mr Madlener, that once the law has been introduced and does his job, the municipalities will be able to reduce their supervision, starting with that class I. If we agree that this works well and yet it turns out that the municipalities do not change their fees, there will come a time when we will say: we have that article in the Wabo for a reason. Then we will have to intervene. But we do in this neat order!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u177	So far, that hasn't happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u178	I agree, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u179	We have often found that the municipalities levy too much fees. We've read all that in the reports. The minister says, "Now we're gonna do it." That still sounds too non-binding to me, because it is a law that explicitly reduces costs. The Minister says that he believes that this should lead to an advantage for the citizen. Suppose we adopt the law, is the Minister prepared to promise that he will not only keep a close eye on it but will eventually also oblige the municipalities to lower the fee if they do not do so on their own? Then I get a vague answer. I want this Minister to give me an explicit undertaking: I will make sure that I promise from my responsibility that the fees will go down to the extent that they should go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u180	I think I'm turning that in. If we introduce the law and if he just works well, the costs can be reduced. If the costs can be reduced, the fee must also be reduced. If that does not happen on its own, then the government can intervene; we have not put that in the law for nothing. So I think we are landing where Mr Madlener wants us to. Mr Madlener said this never happened. That's true, but we never passed a law like that either. When dealing with each other properly, you should first ensure that the costs can be reduced, as is possible with this law, and then follow the introduction neatly with each other. In my view, we agree that it is a really large journey. So I do not think it is reasonable to say after one year that we should be at flight altitude. But it should not be endless, I agree with Mr Madlener. In any case, we evaluate the law after three years, but I am also happy to give an overview of the evolution of the fee and the introduction of the law in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u181	How far along are you with the response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u182	I'm with Mr Van der Linde. Then I've got about 20 minutes to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u183	Twenty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u184	Yes. On a 20-year-old law, I don't think 20 minutes is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u185	Take all the time you need! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr Van der Linde asked what possibilities the Minister had to be able to intervene when, if I understand correctly, a sort of closed shop was created, with very few quality instruments, very few quality assurance agencies and very little innovation. I understand the background to this question, because we sometimes see this risk in the construction sector. However diverse it may seem, in the end, as so often in the Netherlands, it is also a small world. The nature of a Zbo means that the Minister does not intervene constantly there. I don't think that's pure either. The nature of the law means that we want more than one supplier and that there is competition. We also want, for example, the standard applications, to which Mr De Vries rightly points, to be used and therefore to have more efficient methods. If that were not the case, the evaluation and the interim discussions that we are going to have on this law show that things are not going well. Then there can be a moment when we say that we must take action. That is an explicit part of following and evaluating the new law, without me going to see how it goes from day to day at the Zbo. Otherwise, we should not make a fool of ourselves, but I think it is wise to have this kind of technical regulation done by a Zbo. Mr Ronnes referred to the position of monuments, as did Mr Bishop. For example, Mr Ronnes outlined the situation that during the renovation of a monument monumental parts were found hiding behind I hope drywall but it can also be asbestos. Those parts, that painted ceiling or that stucco, will be given real monument protection now that they have been found again. I very much agree with that. In the AMvB I also paid extra attention to the position of monuments. That AMvB states that the inspection plan, the same inspection plan which, on the basis of my earlier commitment to the municipality, also precedes it, lays down how the quality assurance of the specific monument is done. In addition, there is an actualization obligation when new monumental elements come to light during a renovation, as Mr Ronnes sketches. At the time of the completion of such a monument, the information must be provided to the municipality showing that the building technical requirements that follow from the monument status have been properly dealt with. With the way in which the AMvB was specifically written to monuments, I hope to be able to remove the concerns of Mr Ronnes and Mr Bishop. The AMvB is available in concept form, but is of course still officially pre-attached to the Chamber. Mr Ronnes also asked about the way in which we can keep the fees in check. I have just gone into this in detail, so I hope I have answered his questions. Mr Ronnes asked me to accept the recommendations contained in the report on the role of the municipality, which I had drawn up together with the VNG. The answer to that is yes. In consultation with the VNG, we will take forward the further implementation of this law and thus also these recommendations. Mr Ronnes explicitly asked whether the municipality remains the competent authority and also remains competent to enforce. This was also discussed in detail. The answer to that is yes. I come to the entry into force and the evaluation. Mr Ronnes asked how exactly we are going to deal with this. I aim to start in 2018 with Q-Class 1. That might seem close. But an important reason why we are standing here after the twenty years is that a very long period in which everyone has a very strong suspicion that something is going to change leads to situations of late maintenance; I would like to mention it in construction terms. Whether that is at municipal level or in other places: as long as it is unclear what will happen, you cannot set up your organisation and your processes exactly on the new situation. We have also seen this in all the other complicated laws that we have dealt with here. The estimate is that we can introduce follow-up class 1, important but clear constructions, as of 1 January 2018. Is that really gonna happen? As far as I'm concerned, yes. Of course, it depends on my ability to convince the Chamber with the AMvB. It just comes through here, unless there's some very new information. You should not leave the AMvB hanging over the market endlessly, but the Chamber is still strongly inclined to do so. For this reason, I am aiming for the introduction of follow-up class 1 on 1 January 2018. Next, we will monitor the functioning of the system every year. I do so on the basis of annual reports produced by the admissions organisation, the new Zbo, which I will, of course, send to the Chamber. After three years there is an explicit review of the law. I am not yet pinning myself at the moment when we enter follow-up class 2 and perhaps also class 3. I can't do that without consulting the Chamber. But I would like to take these first steps in this way. I come to Mr Bashir's questions on quality assurance. The first was why the new system would be better than the old one. In my introduction, I went into this in detail. I have said that despite the large use of builders and municipal building and housing supervision, it has been observed for a long time that it is often paper supervision, only the drawing, or that there is no supervision at all. In addition, the monitoring of the technical aspects of construction does not reflect the complexity of buildings as they are now being constructed, with many other components, such as installations and energy supply, having to be of good quality. This, combined with the uncertainty that has been surrounding this subject for a long time, is an urgent reason for me not only to regulate liability but also, at the same time, to better regulate quality assurance. Mr Bashir asked me to reply to the letter from the G-4. I have given them a working way by mentioning the two additions I would like to make to the AMvB, which gives the municipality at the beginning insight into the risks of the building and will also be informed in the meantime. Mr Bashir also asked whether the information that is now public will be public, specifically for emergency workers such as firefighters and police. The bill states that the holder of the authorisation, i.e. the sponsor, must ensure that the file reaches the competent authority. That's the file the guarantor's approval is in. It also contains all the information the municipality needs. Before we move on to the next classes 2 and 3 you are talking about large public buildings. I will explicitly ask the aid agencies for their advice, so that the introduction of these routes will also be careful. Mr Bashir asked what I think of signals that would increase costs for consumers. I don't recognize those signals. I was just referring to the investigation into municipal costs and the consequences it has for fees. In addition, a social cost-benefit analysis has been made by the Economic Institute for Construction. It was given to the Chamber. Part of the costs incurred by the municipalities are transferred to the builders via the quality assurance agencies. They'll be billed for that job. On balance, this cost-benefit analysis of the EIB says that as a whole, we are going to make 100 million less costs as a whole. This has to do with the point that Mr De Vries rightly referred to, namely the great cost of failure that is currently being incurred. If you consistently and from the very beginning regulate that quality control, you can assume that those failure costs will go down. You don't always have to create expensive extra procedures that go through your construction process, because you can make good work arrangements about this with the quality assurance provider. In short, this calculation has been made and it does not lead to the picture that society will have more costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u187	I do not want to look only at society, because that is a rather complicated concept. Let's take a look at a client, for example a private person who has a house built. It's gonna lose less money on fees if it's good, because they're gonna go down by an amount of x. However, he has extra costs because he has to hire that inspector and take out insurance. Now the question is what is the balance of this construction project for that private individual. Is the reduction in fees equal to the extra costs he has to incur for hiring such an inspector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u188	No, the EIB says that the extra cost of the inspector for all clients together is not cut out, but I should like to check that out in the report. That insurance is not compulsory; I just had a discussion about that. This means that the additional costs incurred for quality assurance are, on balance, 100 million lower than the costs currently incurred. In an open society with competition, that ends up with the private or the entrepreneur who gives the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u189	This is, of course, a very theoretical story. So this is going to lead to lower construction costs? After all, the failure costs are hidden in the construction costs. If I give an order, for example, I conclude an agreement for two tonnes to build the house, then I get a bill of two tonnes. I never see the cost of failure. I'm gonna lose less of my fee, but I'm gonna lose some extra money hiring that lieutenant. So my question is: what is a private contractor going to notice about this? The Minister has promised that there would be less expense. That's what we're gonna check the municipalities for. But hiring that inspector, I think, still costs a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u190	Yeah, but I'm not gonna let you do these tests for nothing. The results are simply public. The reports can be read by Mr Madlener and can be read by anyone. Furthermore, Mr Madlener said that this failure cost does not pay the private person. He'll pay the private man. There's really no one else to pay those costs. In the calculation of a builder, it is taken into account that he has an average of 10% of the cost of failure. These costs are therefore included in the tender and the final payment for the private individual. It is only when the sector manages to reduce that percentage that costs will be reduced. Not only do I think so, but the Economic Institute for Construction also thinks so. I say again: it's just a public report and they're expert people. We are always open to criticism, but these people explicitly address the question that Mr Madlener rightly asks. Are the costs going down on balance? Yeah, on balance, the cost goes down. That is what the consumer will see. Here too: if they do not implement the law, including quality assurance, then I would know no reason why those costs would go down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u191	Finally, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u192	This minister is someone who believes in the functioning of the market. There is already an incentive to reduce the costs of this construction, namely by hiring the inspectors themselves. Of course you can. But that didn't happen. The Minister trusts that these costs will be reduced on the basis of this opinion. To be honest, I find it rather unbelievable. So I have serious doubts about this. A builder is already stimulated to keep costs low. Of course, a contractor doesn't want failure costs. So he will do a lot to prevent it. And now this Columbus egg from the minister would suddenly lead to less failure costs, and thus lower take-off prices? Because that is how that private individual should see the reduction of those costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u193	Mr Madlener sees a contradiction that I do not see. I believe that we share the ambition to reduce the costs for that private individual. I assume that Mr Madlener also wants to reduce the costs for SMEs. Then, of course, it's the question of how you're going to do that. If it could be done by leaving everything as it is now, then the question is: why have those costs not already been reduced? Right? I don't think those costs will go down by themselves. If I believed that, I wouldn't be standing here. Not only I don't believe that. All those people who have spent the last 20 years on this subject have come to the conclusion that there is no point in leaving it as it is. You've gotten the whole stack of letters I've gotten. One writer likes one part of the law better and the other part more. Some people ask for a part to be left out. But the number of letters that ask to do nothing at all... I think I found one lawyer who says, "Don't do anything." Furthermore, all organisations say that we need to take steps. So all of them agree with me once again, and I have also had proper research done on that, if you want to make that battle where the consumer gets a better position and costs go down, you have to change the system. That's why we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u194	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u195	I was answering Mr Bashir. He asked whether, when the fees go down, he was more optimistic in that respect than Mr Madlener.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That doesn't make any sense. I have already indicated that there are municipalities that do the quality inspection very seriously but that there are also municipalities that do not actually do it. The latter also charge fees. The system of the law and its introduction means that the municipal authority remains competent. That was a question from Mr Ronnes. The municipality can therefore intervene if this is really necessary and should also eventually be given the guarantee file. But the city doesn't have to do all that work anymore. So there's no service on the other side. So it also makes sense that the fee goes down. So I am not afraid that services that are needed will disappear now. Then Mr Bashir asked how we would prevent the admission organisation from becoming an expensive and cumbersome organisation. I've already indicated that I think it's important that this admissions organization be here. That doesn't make it privatisation. Mr Bashir and I should agree on this. I have also indicated, at least in the documents, that the admission organisation itself is not becoming large and cumbersome; it consists of three board members. Those Board members shall hire experts to make the actual assessment of the quality instruments. An organization consisting of three board members is not big and log by its nature. I have already indicated that I will share the annual report with the Chamber and that we will jointly keep our finger on the pulse along that route. Then there is the question of whether the 500 building and housing managers are going to lose their jobs and what impact they have on employment. I certainly do not expect any negative effect on employment as such. It could even get a little bigger. It may mean that some of the people who are now working for a municipality will soon be working for one of the private quality assurance agencies. Mr Bashir asked whether existing contracts or statutes should be amended because of the law. The answer to that is no. There's a transitional arrangement in the law. Next, the law only applies to new contracts. There is therefore no need to change the statutes either. Then Mr Bashir asked whether it is not strange that the municipality has no further insight into the technical aspects of construction. In response to the letter from the G-4 and Mr De Vries' amendment and my commitment to the AMvB, I hope I have indicated how I intend to strengthen the municipality's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u196	The minister says he's gonna take care of things in an AMvB. Why isn't it settled in the bill itself? Then we can see what it looks like and talk about it. Then we'll have to vote on it. I have expressed my concern that the municipality will still be competent but has few instruments, and so Jut will be head of head if things go wrong and accidents happen. The Minister says I'll meet you and I'll take care of something in the AMvB. Why doesn't he do that in the bill or in a letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u197	I believe that the subdivision law, AMvB and then ministerial regulation is a well known one in this Chamber. The more detailed implementation aspects of a law are recorded in an AMvB and if they are even more detailed in a ministerial arrangement, because they may need to be changed more often by new developments, but that does not mean that the Chamber has no role at all. I have pointed out that the Chamber can simply read the concept of the AMvB. In any case, the AMvB has a suspension procedure, so if the majority of the Chamber in that front finds that we should not do so, then it simply has the right to enforce it by means of a motion. So the Chamber has all the rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u198	For us this is crucial, because the way in which we are going to give powers to municipalities is crucial for us in assessing whether this is an improvement or not, how the municipalities are going to implement it, how they are going to pass on the costs and whether they have money for it. All these questions are dealt with. The Chamber itself has tabled an amendment, the Albert de Vries amendment. The minister says he's gonna take care of things differently. Then I say: refer it to the Chamber by means of a letter of amendment. Then we know what it looks like. Maybe the minister can even convince the SP with that. You never know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u199	We agree on the section on "Leave it to the Chamber" because the Chamber gets it in an AMvB. I do not want to challenge Mr Bashir, but if the AMvB is not adopted, the law will not enter into force. So the Chamber has all the instruments it needs. It's logical in the system of how we make laws and more detailed rules that's not typical of this law that this part comes into an AMvB. But it is also logical that the Chamber should have the democratic right to say: not so. We can see that at the time. Mr Koolmees asked whether an architect could act as a quality assurance officer. The answer to that is yes, but not in projects that he himself is involved in. It strikes me that Mr Van der Linde asked a similar question: can a quality assurance officer be employed by a construction company? Well, not from the construction company he's doing the quality assurance for. This independence must not be called into question by an employment relationship. Mr Koolmees said that, apart from the disappearance of this preventive, often paper test, nothing really changes for the local authorities. I think that is too disrespectful a summary because the municipality generally remains the competent authority. It is a question of what Mr Koolmees meant by his statement that little is changing. The whole quality assurance process is, in short, a much more serious process. This means that municipalities that were still faithful can rightly say: I am not going to look there every time. But certainly with the additions I have offered for the AMvB the municipality is still in a position to perform. So the position of the municipality indeed changes, but she remains serious. That is why I am a little critical of the claim that privatisation would take place. No, it's really a different facility, but the government, as far as I'm concerned, logically retains a role in quality control of processes that can so much affect health or even life. Mr Koolmees asked which institution is reviewing the additional local regulation. Besides, I'm gonna have to split up. For example, local rules relating to the construction decision............................................................................................................................................................................................ Other local regulations, e.g. welfare regulations, simply belong to the municipality. Mr Koolmees indicated that the evaluation should in any event address the issue of the level of fees and their impact on the administrative burden. I very much agree with him. That's crucial. I would like to give the first indications of this in the interim reports, as far as possible at that time. Mr Koolmees asked why multi-layered apartment complexes are not subject to class 1. In the various consultations that the Chamber and I have held in the run-up, I was specifically asked to start with the construction works where the consequences of defects are the most limited. I don't have to think about it, but if there are serious defects in an apartment complex, the damage is greater than in a single-family home. Hence, in the context of careful implementation, to which we are all very fond, the choice has been made not to include multi-layered apartment complexes under sub-class 1. I answered Mr Madlener's question just in the event of interruption. Mr Bishop referred to the risk of the system being introduced too quickly. He asked how we are going to ensure that it is done carefully. I have just told Mr Ronnes that the Chamber at the AMvB still has every opportunity to use all its instruments. That will be in the course of this year; as far as I am concerned, for the summer. I'm aiming at January 1st for the next class. As far as the other classes are concerned, I do not want to make a decision at this stage. We really need to agree that it works well. Mr Bisschop also discussed the position of municipalities in matters such as fire safety and environmental performance. I have already indicated that the parts contained in the Building Decision are part of the work of the quality assurance officer. In general, there is no comprehensive fire safety check in Quality Class 1. Before we take the step to follow-up classes 2 and 3, I would first like to discuss with the fire department and the rescue services a responsible implementation of it. Mr Bishop asked whether there could be a separate category at the time of entry into force of monuments. I hope to convince Mr Bishop, once he has looked at the concept of the AMvB which I have sent to the Chamber, that I will make sure that the extra guarantees I have given for monuments are handled carefully. I have not yet gone into the De Vries amendment on the transfer dossier. That is a very radical amendment. It deals with three matters: the handover of a transfer file by the building contractor, the provision of a user's declaration by the municipality and the establishment of detailed rules on the acceptance of the building delivered. What is in the amendment on the transfer dossier is really far-reaching. Any conversion on the basis of a contract of acceptance shall be accompanied by a transfer file. This means that not only every contractor, but also every homeowner or entrepreneur who has a renovation, must provide such a transfer file. That file must then also be handed over to the sale of a house or shop. Especially in the case of houses, these are huge numbers. The average property owner hires a contractor once in a while. I don't think we should want an extra duty like that. For the contractor, it really means a lot of work, because a file has to be made in the framework of quality assurance. This contains the essential information for the municipality and the relief services. The contractor must give that file to the contractor and to the municipality. The city's already got a file. It also has a complex legal consequence for that municipality. We also want to make the liability of the municipality very clear by stating that on the basis of the evidence, you can assume that the quality assurance officer is doing his job. Then there's another file, which raises the question of the municipality's legal position if there's something wrong with that file. After all, the amendment states that the municipality has the task of assessing the content of the transfer file. I would like to make an attempt to meet Mr De Vries. The wish for a consumer file has been raised in this Chamber before. Such a dossier has sometimes been rejected by a majority, but the wish remains regular, partly motivated by consumer organisations. I find the way in which the amendment regulates this very difficult, with complex legal complications. In addition, this aspect has not been addressed in the preliminary stage. If an amendment is adopted, it is really part of the law. If the amendment continues, I need time to be able to respond more fully, because then I really want to be able to consult with legal experts, builders and consumer organisations. Then the handling of the bill will stop for a moment. Maybe we should ask the Council of State for advice ourselves, because it goes a long way. However, I am prepared to look with builders and consumer organisations at how we can give this consumer file hands and feet. Once again, I know that the wish has long existed. So I have had homework on it, I have to come back to it and inform Mr De Vries and the rest of the Chamber about it. But that is not as far-reaching as this amendment. I therefore ask Mr De Vries to withdraw this amendment or to abide by my commitment, for example, by recording it in a motion. This amendment calls for an extensive, more detailed weighting. I can't do that right now, today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u200	We mean to say that this file, which must be presented to the public authorities, together with the consumer file, is the transfer file. So we're not doing anything extra. We put two things together, which are in this bill and figures. We want to settle that in the Civil Code, because then there is an obligation for the contractor to answer to the client for all constructions, including the licensed constructions. I really think it is very important that, if we tighten liability, there is also a clear line of accountability and an instrument towards the client. That's what we're trying to do. If that is unclear in this amendment and we need more time to discuss it, then I do not feel very strongly about doing so by means of a motion. I'd feel more like an order proposal. I propose that the second deadline be kept not today but at a time to be specified. Then we have time to see whether we can amend the amendment in such a way that it is understood. Now it is not properly understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u201	Clear. Did the Minister answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u202	I hope I've answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u203	Okay. What do the spokesmen think of Mr De Vries's proposal of order to keep the second term at a different time, not this evening?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u204	I am working on an amendment that regulates compulsory insurance. We also need a little more time for that. I therefore support the request to continue the debate at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u205	I think it's an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u206	Let's get on with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u207	In general, it bothers me if amendments are only tabled during a debate. So I think it's a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u208	I see that Mr Madlener is nodding yes. So there's room-wide support for holding the second term at a different time than tonight. Then this brings us to the end of the first term of office. But Mr Van der Linde has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u209	I'm still curious about the time frame on which it's about to be scheduled. Of course it is up to the President, but how much time does the Minister need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u210	I want to do my best to let it be next week, but of course it depends on how we find each other and how complicated it is for other parties. I see Mr Ronnes raise two fingers. I think it's safe not to aim next week but the week after. If there is an amendment, there will be an extensive response from me. The same applies to Mr Bashir's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u211	I understand Mr Van der Linde's irritation. A lot has been pushed back and forth with this amendment, because it is very complicated. I think the Minister can get away with two weeks if we get closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-18-tweedekamer-7.u212	We now come to the end of the first term of office and government. As I just said, we'll probably have the second term in two weeks.
