ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I suggest we do the interruptions in two. I'm allowing two interruptions. I call Mrs Schut-Belch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. People in the Netherlands are quite willing to pay tax for a benefit for people who really do not get any further. The VVD believes that a benefit is there to compensate for the costs you incur if you live in the Netherlands. In the end, it doesn't make you rich. If a benefit goes abroad, then its level must be adjusted to the price level there. In Morocco, the reduction in benefits was not possible because we were bound by the bilateral social security convention we concluded in 1972. It is good to consider the long process that led to the successful agreement we are discussing today. Since my first general consultation on 14 February 2013, the VVD has been in fact well aware of the fact that it was the birthday of the Prime Minister with this minister that put great pressure on the cabinet to get movement in those negotiations. The VVD has always preferred the amendment of the Treaty to its termination, as stated in the Schut-Welkten/Dijkgraaf motion (26448, No. 512), which I submitted in June 2014. Morocco really negotiated on the edge of the cut. The VVD had an estimate that Morocco would not move until it really had to. Unfortunately, that proved to be the case, but in the end it worked out well. Two times Minister Asscher announced an agreement with Morocco, which turned out to be a wash on the Moroccan side. Only when the Netherlands was weeks away from the termination of the treaty that the VVD had expected: Morocco moved and chose eggs for its money. Eventually, the result counts. I know Minister Asscher has a lot of work to do here. He deserves a compliment for that. With this agreement, benefits were reduced by 10% in October and by a further 10% in January. That's how this goes on every year. As of 2021, the child benefit will be completely discontinued. We are very pleased with that. It is good for many people's sense of justice that this treaty has been amended and that benefits have been reduced or stopped. A few questions remain. What is the status of the Association Decision with the EU on this Convention? In addition, we must ensure that Morocco actually ratifys the agreement that has now been reached. The provisional entry into force as of October 2016 is for an indefinite period, but for the sake of certainty, I would like to give Minister Asscher the assurance that the termination law that is now in force and which has been dealt with by both Chambers will not be withdrawn until Morocco has actually ratified the Convention. In addition, I have a broader point. If you really can't go any further, the government must be there for you to offer social protection, but people think it is unfair for this to be abused. That was the reason for the amendment of this Treaty. We want to prevent people from moving to our country to benefit from a benefit, because a benefit is not to be rich. We want you to contribute to our country before you reap the fruits of it. We want you to build rights before you get benefits. We handled this well in the AOW. That's why you're building rights. A benefit is paid as you have acquired rights to it. But that doesn't apply to the WW. In the Netherlands you have to work 26 weeks before you can apply for a WW benefit. It is only reasonable that, if, for example, a Pole comes to the Netherlands, he first works here and contributes, before he can apply for a benefit. Now you can apply for a benefit already in week one, based on your European employment history. The VVD believes that there should be a threshold. Preferably one of 26 weeks, as is also the case for people who work in the Netherlands, but at least three months. These are measures that the Minister himself can take to curb benefit migration. He recently joined the European Court of Justice and the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u3	We know that the VVD is in favour of the housing principle. If that principle had been applied in this Convention, the benefit would have been reduced by 60%. The benefit is reduced by only 10%. Does the VVD believe that its principles are in this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Ulenbelt knows more than I do, because, as far as I know, there is an international measure that says that Morocco prices are 40% lower than in the Netherlands. At least that was the case at the time of the conclusion of that treaty. If benefits fall by 10% each year, they ultimately reach 60% of the prices in the Netherlands. This is in line with the principle of the country of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'm afraid Mrs. Schut didn't read the pieces properly. Because in the coming years, for example, the General Survivors Act is 10% lower than the Dutch benefit. What you are suggesting, namely that benefits fall 10% every year, is not at all in this protocol. So the difference is much bigger. Does Mrs Schut recognise that the principle of housing, which her party supports, is not being applied in this protocol?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u6	I believe that the principle of the country of residence applies to this agreement, so we are satisfied with the agreement as it stands and with the principles that are used in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u7	Does the VVD agree with us that the Moroccan Dutch have built up the Netherlands? That Moroccan Dutch people have worked hard for the Netherlands and for the prosperity we have built together? Does the VVD consider that, for example, people who move to Morocco after their divorce should be reduced on their benefit? Should the child benefit for the children who grow up there be taken away? How does Mrs Schut compare that with rich VVDs who also get their AOW in Morocco?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mrs. Schut-Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u9	Just, uh, their general pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u10	The VVD is for you, if you really have no choice, if you really have no choice, to get benefits. This benefit is primarily intended to meet your needs in the Netherlands. If you live in a country where prices are much lower, we think it is only reasonable for the benefit to be adjusted accordingly. Everyone is free to live wherever he or she wants, but when you live in a country where prices are lower, the benefits must be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u11	The VVD therefore believes that the pension of a wealthy VVD worker who moves to Morocco should be reduced, because he can live there cheaply. Does the VVD also take into account the fact that Morocco is an emerging country that increases prices? After 2021, prices will be even higher there. The VVD ensures that a widow, an invalid or a child receives a low benefit. Doesn't that make these people's lives unnecessarily difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u12	The VVD is actually in favour of stopping the export of benefits to countries outside Europe altogether. But if people in those countries receive benefits, it is only reasonable that they should be adjusted to the price level. Everyone is free to live wherever they want. If people continue to live in the Netherlands, they will receive a full benefit, but if they choose to live in a country where prices are lower, it is only reasonable that the benefit falls. Mr Öztürk should not put anything in my mouth about the AOW, because that is not what this is about at all. The AOW is not part of this treaty. The AOW is something you build rights for. The VVD also wants to stop migration at that point. For this reason, we have greatly increased the prices for purchasing AOW fees. But that's two different things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA particularly welcomes the fact that the Minister has succeeded in adjusting the agreement with Morocco. The PvdA has always argued for this. During the parliamentary debate on the termination of the agreement with Morocco, we tabled a motion, together with D66, to continue negotiating with Morocco on the amendment of the agreement. We are very pleased with the balance found in this agreement. Morocco has agreed to the introduction of the housing principle desired by the Netherlands. In turn, the Netherlands has offered nice, mitigating measures and a longer transitional period. There is now clarity for the people involved in the amendments to the Morocco-Netherlands Convention. For the sake of clarity, nothing changes with regard to the export of the AOW. Also for all benefits already exported to Morocco, nothing changes. There may be changes for new beneficiaries. However, the transitional periods are broad. It is now clear what everyone is up to and that gives rest. The PvdA still has a question for the Minister. When will the Association Decision with Morocco formally enter into force? Any sign of that yet? This has an impact on the application of the country of residence principle to survivors' benefits and the WGA continuation allowance in the event of incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u14	Widows are reduced by 10% on their AOW benefit, disabled persons are reduced by 10% on their WGA benefit and by 40% on the child benefit and budget. The PvdA says to be happy and happy about the fact that this is taken away from Moroccan Dutch. I repeat the question I also asked the VVD. Does the PvdA agree with me that Moroccan Dutch people have co-built the Netherlands, that they have worked hard day and night and that they have built rights? Those rights are now being taken away by this Rutte I pestilence measure. The PvdA and her minister are just gonna let the taking of those rights continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr Öztürk supported the motion that we tabled together with D66. It says: Minister, come to an agreement! Mr Öztürk should be pleased. The Minister has produced a great result. He's made a beautiful and just deal. For existing cases nothing changes at all. The AOW doesn't change anything. New cases are subject to a very fine and just arrangement which maintains the minimum standard of living, wherever it is in the world. That's fair and just.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u16	Moroccan Dutch people are cut short, they are punished. Smells like thanks. And Mrs Yücel of the PvdA says: great, good that this happens. That's exactly where it goes wrong. That people like them are hired to do this kind of thing is exactly why people don't go to the polls anymore. That she can defend this, that she loves the fact that money is taken away from women, widows, disabled children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u17	Mrs. Yücel is not hired. She's been chosen. She's a popular representative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u18	Like Mr Öztürk, who co-signed a motion asking for an agreement. I don't understand any of this. The Minister has concluded an agreement with Morocco. Morocco has agreed to this, because it is a fair and just agreement. For the existing cases nothing changes at all and the AOW does not change anything at all. For the new cases, there is a fine, just settlement with good transitional periods, which does justice to the minimum standard of living, anywhere in the world. This is really fair and just. Mr Öztürk, do your homework well!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u19	Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group has never opposed an amendment to the Social Security Convention, but it has always opposed unilateral withdrawal. We were extremely afraid that the price we would have to pay for this would be far too high, for example because the Moroccan authorities would no longer be involved in the exchange of information in the fight against fraud involving social security benefits. That is why, as Mrs Yücel said, we have always called for further negotiation on the road to an agreement. We could have done that at some point. However, when the Moroccan authorities came back to that agreement at the last minute and said that they wanted to add an agreement on Western Sahara, then D66 was the cut-off measure and we supported the law of termination. In the end, an agreement has been reached, and we are satisfied with that. This change is now taking place with all kinds of deadlines, as has already been emphasised by previous speakers. I have one more question. When the law of termination was hanging over the market, Morocco refused at some point to cooperate in the return of asylum seekers who had been removed from the market. So it's been playing since December 2014 and it was still numbers below 100 a year, both in 2014 and 2015. But in 2016, the total number of asylum seekers was 1,283. In practice, it appears that the claims are often not viable, but that Morocco still refuses to cooperate in returning. On 25 November 2016, Secretary of State Dijkhoff wrote that cooperation with Morocco on forced return was insufficient. Now there is an agreement and agreement. What is the status of achieving good cooperation? What does the Cabinet do to ensure that we can arrange that return properly and keep the relationship well? I think this is an important subject. We have always been afraid that the discussion of social security benefits would put pressure on this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u20	Mr. Chairman. The PVV has of course also been in favour of total withdrawal of the Convention. Mrs Schut was just talking about that. There is now another agreement, an amendment to the 1972 Convention, which has meant that Morocco has been holding us hostage for 44 years. Lots of people here, lots of money there. That's trouble. Mr Van Weyenberg has also talked about this and all the speakers have actually done so so far. We are very likely to support this solution at the moment, i.e. the adaptation of the Treaty. We have very few questions. The questions we have have already been asked, also by the two speakers I have just mentioned. So I can be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u21	Thank you. This is very short indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u22	Mr. Chairman. The SP has never supported the Export Benefits Control Act and is also not in favour of the country-of-home principle. The principle of the country of residence means that the rights you have acquired here are less valuable abroad. This does not happen with the wages people send back to the country of origin. Then why should this happen? It was paid for in the Netherlands. Then it's a little weird that the benefit is being adjusted, depending on the country you end up in. We rightly do not do that with the AOW, but why do we do so with widows' benefits? That's not gonna happen to me. There is one more point: I can remember the discussion on this very well. If you implement the principle of the country of residence, say that you will receive a higher benefit if you are in Monaco. The Minister didn't want that either. It was a pure austerity of Rutte I. A misunderstanding has arisen in the debate between me and Mrs Schut. For example, if you really implemented the principle of housing in this treaty, the widow's benefit would be 40% of what we have in the Netherlands, whereas the treaty states 90%. That is not therefore an application of the law that we know about the principle of housing. Does the Minister recognize this? Is it then going to end with the 10% reduction or, as Mrs Schut suggests, is 10% going to go down every year? In my view, this is not the case with the WGA wage payment and not with the widow's allowance, but with the Supplements Act. Anyway, that's very small amounts. In short, we were against the withdrawal of the Treaty. Looking at this protocol, I think, faithfully to the principles that we have always interpreted here: if we do not approve it, the old treaty will remain in place and then exactly what we have always stood for will happen. Moreover, the association agreement between the EU and Morocco will change this once again. A little consistent policy would mean waiting until that treaty arrives, so that treaty does not bring about another change. Moreover, I am very curious about the position of the Netherlands with regard to that association agreement with Morocco. Do we support that? If this government supports it, it will then distance itself from what it is now presenting here; that would also be a bit strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u23	Mr. Chairman. The years after the Second World War were a difficult period. Our country was in ruins. Our economy had to get back on track. Everything had to be rebuilt. We could not do that alone; we needed help with that. That is why we invited people from other countries, including Morocco. These Moroccan Dutchmen of the first and second generation worked very hard to build our country: in the ports, in factories and in warehouses. Partly because of their blood, sweat and tears, our land has become what it is. The first and second generation of the Moroccan Dutch deserve our thanks. They also deserve our support and acceptance, but what does this minister do when these people decide after years of hard work in the Netherlands to remigrate to Morocco to enjoy their old age, often with pain in their backs of working? Then this minister will take a piece of the benefit from those people. If these people go on vacation to Morocco to enjoy well-deserved leisure time, this minister takes away their health insurance. Minister, is that your thanks for the people who helped to build the Netherlands? Is that your recognition of the Moroccan Dutch contribution to our country? Is that your sense of justice? Is that your stench of gratitude? On top of that, people in illegal Israeli settlements have been given too much money illegally. This minister has even broken the law for that. Do your best to catch Moroccan Dutch people, but give illegal settlers too much money: what an injustice, what a double measure. What is the specific proposal of the PvdA and the VVD? Moroccan Dutch people who go back to Morocco are simply caught. I spoke with Moroccan Dutch people in Sittard-Geleen last night. I said that tomorrow morning there will be a debate on a treaty, a protocol; do you know about this? They said to me, no. I said, have you been informed? They said to me, no. I said, "What's gonna happen?" They didn't know that. These are 400,000 Moroccan Dutch, but the Moroccan Dutch has not been informed. He was not asked for his opinion. Benefits are being taken away and measures are being taken that hit people hard, but people are not informed. This minister has failed to inform these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u24	Mr Öztürk says that the Moroccan Dutch were not asked for their opinion. Now I understand he did it himself. He tried to organise a referendum to ask people for their opinion. May I ask how many signatures he collected for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u25	Thousands of signatures, but the referendum protocol and referendum legislation are such that all those people have to download, sign and send a letter by post. That's a threshold for a lot of people. I think we should agree at some point here that we should also be able to do it digitally. If it could have been digital, we could certainly have organised a referendum. But a lot of people in the country have indeed been well informed by us, by DENK. Mrs Schut-Welkins is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u26	My information is that Mr Öztürk has received 1,500 of the necessary 10,000 signatures for a first step to the referendum. This indicates how little support he has in Dutch society. It indicates that people think it's very fair that your benefit falls if you live somewhere where prices are lower. Mr Öztürk should give more thought to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u27	I'm sorry to say this, but that's a bullshit argument. At a time when people can't do what they want to do through a certain threshold and therefore few people can respond to anything, Mrs Schut-Thanks to the lack of support, Mrs Schut-Thanks. That's a bullshit argument. We must ensure that these people are given the opportunity to address the Minister. And how did the VVD address the Moroccan Dutch? How did the VVD get in touch with these people? I'd like to ask the same question. Pest measures and take-away measures, while these 400,000 Moroccan Dutch have just paid taxes in the Netherlands, just like everyone else. But from the tax revenue they have contributed, they are paid less. I'd like to call him the pickup man, Asscher. As our Prime Minister Mark Rutte said at Buitenhof, Asscher is loyal to our VVD policy. What a electoral deception, Minister Asscher. People voted for the PvdA in 2012 because they had had enough of Rutte I's bullying measures. They wanted to get rid of these bullying measures. What does the PvdA do? The PvdA thinks: if we are hard on minorities, especially against Turkish and Moroccan Dutch, then the voters we lost to the PVV will come back. That is why I ask the Minister: why have you decided not to be a Social Democrat anymore, why are you not just and why are you not ensuring that everyone is treated equally? DENK is fundamentally opposed to Minister Asscher's policy of taking away, but the VVD is enthusiastic and calls the treaty successful. The PVV is also very enthusiastic. And then I see the PvdA. He loves that kids lose their child support. It's great to see widows lose their benefits. It's great that people who are unable to work get paid less. Great that after 2021 no child in Morocco gets child support. The Labour Party loves that. DENK is and will remain opposed in principle. I also have a number of practical questions, apart from my fundamental objections to the amendment of the Treaty. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on all these short points. 1. Why these symbolic bullying measures? The discounts on widows and disabled persons are worth EUR 1 million. Shouldn't the government go after multinationals instead? Every year, they avoid taxes for billions. The reduction in family allowances that some Members of Parliament loves is only EUR 0.3 million. Shouldn't the government instead do something about the lucrative expat scheme that costs the Treasury 800 million euros a year? Why grab widows and families and pamper rich expats and multinationals? What kind of phony socialism is this, Minister? 2. If the association agreement between Morocco and the European Union enters into force, the country-of-home principle must no longer be applied. The benefits that are now being cut will therefore have to be increased again in the near future. That's weird, right? Relations between Morocco and the Netherlands have been seriously damaged by the Minister, but half of his proposals will soon be reversed by the European Union. He's just as quick to use the current situation to catch the people. Isn't that very cunning? 3. What was the role of Mayor Aboutaleb? Why did the government ask him to help? We have a foreign minister, Mr Koenders, a party colleague to Minister Asscher. Why doesn't he let the Foreign Secretary do the job if he can't do it himself? Why does the Minister need the help of Aboutaleb? That's weird, right? The minister's putting in a mayor because he can't negotiate himself. He's using a mayor of Moroccan-Dutch descent to get his own people caught. Isn't that exactly what hurts a lot of voters? 4. The double size. Surely there are other groups with similar situations, such as Poland? 13,000 benefits go to Poland. Why does the Minister only take Moroccan Dutch? Isn't there a double size? By the way, this does not mean that DENK wants to split other groups into the stomach a country principle. DENK strongly opposes this whole proposal. The Netherlands must stop taking symbolic bullying measures. 5. Why such a hasty introduction? The reductions started on 1 October last year, and we have not yet officially approved them here in Parliament. Why not wait and see, Minister? This is not in the spirit of democracy. I hear the Moroccan government has agreed. No, the Moroccan Parliament still has to agree. Let us stick to the facts. What if the Convention in Morocco is not ratified? The amendment of the Treaty still has to be approved by the Moroccan Parliament. 7. Information. Most of the Moroccan-Dutch community does not know that the treaty has been amended or people do not know the exact consequences. Does the Minister have any plans for an active information campaign? 8. The Netherlands has a strong interest in international cooperation. Prime Minister Rutte recently said this in Buitenhof. This difficult process of treaty adaptation does not contribute to international cooperation. Morocco has seen the way of negotiating as an unfriendly act. That is unworthy of the Netherlands. This means that the Netherlands can also be harmed economically, because it becomes a less reliable partner for other countries if it messes with treaties opportunistically. This will turn against the Netherlands in the long run. Good agreements with other countries ensure good trade relations. They must not be put at risk for pestilence measures. We should have sent a delegation of trade to Morocco instead of this hassle of an amendment to the treaty. Morocco is under construction. We can help Morocco with its infrastructure. We can trade. Instead of sending a trade delegation, the Minister takes away child benefit and takes away widows and disabled people's money so that we can save a few million euros. It is not about the few million euros, because we can trade with Morocco for millions, hundreds of millions. It is a bullying measure, to show in the elections in the Netherlands that the Moroccan Dutch are also being caught: "Look at this: we also participated in that right-wing, grim, rough wind that is now blowing." That's what it's all about, and that's what people have a lot of trouble with. Hardworking Moroccans who built the Netherlands day and night have difficulty with it. They wonder: is this a parliament that stands up for us?; Is this a parliament that thinks about us and about us? France, Germany and China invest billions in Morocco. Morocco remains the gateway to Africa. Everyone knows what growth potential Africa has. We should not mess with widows', disabled people's and children's benefits. We need to see the big picture. I'm rounding up. It's election time. Pim Fortuyn once mentioned the ruins of Purple. What do we have after four years of PvdA and VVD? Rutte's mess and Asscher's takeaway culture. DENK wants to warn the voter about that take-away culture. Don't believe in the nice talk of the PvdA and the VVD. The golden mountains of Rutte and Asscher do not exist. That is why we of DENK say: don't fall for it; dare to think differently; dare to be righteous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u28	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u29	The Minister is ready; he has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u30	Mr. Chairman. I am very happy to be here today to talk to the Chamber about the agreement that the Netherlands has concluded with Morocco on the amendment of the bilateral social security convention. We have worked hard in recent years to reach such an agreement with Morocco. How different was the situation exactly a year ago when we stood here to talk about the termination of that treaty. We seemed to have an agreement by the end of 2015, but during the technical transposition of the political agreement concluded with Morocco, Morocco had come up with an additional demand regarding the provision of benefits in Western Sahara. The Netherlands could not meet that. In the Van Weyenberg/Yücel motion adopted, the government was urged to continue its efforts to reach an agreement on the amendment of the Convention in consultation with Morocco in the near future. During the examination of the law for the termination of the Convention, I undertook to seek to reach an agreement. This was in line with the position I have always expressed, namely that an amended treaty has my strong preference over the withdrawal of the treaty. In order to fulfil the commitment, intensive consultations have been held with Morocco to find a solution to various issues. In June last year, this resulted in a signed amended treaty, which must now be ratified by both countries. The amendment has had a material effect since 1 October 2016 as a result of the provisional application of the amended Convention. It is good to reflect on the goal that the Netherlands had in adapting the treaty. The effort was to stop 1. the export of child benefit and child-related budget, in accordance with the Export Reduction Family Allowances Act entered into force in 2015 and 2. to allow the application of the country-of-home principle to social security in Morocco, in accordance with a law of 2012. This agreement achieves both objectives. This also meets the previous Van Weyenberg/Yücel motion, but also the Schut-Welkenn/Dijkgraaf motion from June 2014. It called for the application of the country of residence principle in Morocco. In addition, this agreement will continue to make it possible to conduct asset surveys in Morocco under the Participation Act. This is important in order to maintain the support of our social welfare system. Social services are meant for people who need them. That is why it is important to be able to check for fraud. Finally, the agreement concluded maintains a particularly good bilateral relationship with Morocco. This is good news not only for social security cooperation but also for many other policy areas, one of Mr Öztürk's questions. I shall now go through the various sections briefly, because the Chamber was generally satisfied, if I may sum it up. Mrs Schut would like the commitment that the law that allows the termination of the Convention to be repealed only after effective ratification. As I reported to the Chamber in the June letter, I can confirm that after both countries have ratified the Convention, I am proposing the repeal of the Decree of Termination, which is now almost a five-fold denial! President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The Chamber must take into account that my successor does so, so not myself in person. The promise is that we will not withdraw the termination until it has been ratified. Mr Öztürk asked whether the Netherlands would have to repair discounts retroactively if, for example, after five years of provisional application, it became clear that the Convention would not be ratified. The answer to that is no. During the period of provisional application of the provisions of the Treaty, both States are obliged to implement all the provisions of the Treaty. Another question from Mr Öztürk concerned the timing. This was chosen in good consultation with the Moroccan authorities. So what happens if one doesn't ratify? That too was a question from Mr Öztürk. I have no reason to believe that the Moroccan Parliament could not agree to the treaty amendment. I therefore do not think it is appropriate to speculate on a possible situation that could arise if it does not. If that situation does occur, I will inform the Chambers. Materially, the change is already having an effect. Why are there others involved in the conclusion of the agreement? If negotiations are held, it is important to test other ways. I have put a great deal of time and energy into it, but Minister Koenders has also made a great effort through diplomatic contacts with Morocco to reach an agreement. I also asked Mr Aboutaleb, as I said earlier, to play an advisory and mediation role. All these efforts together have ultimately contributed to the agreement that is now under way. I think we can all be happy about that. It is in the interest of Moroccan Dutch people that existing cases are all spared, but also in the interest of the implementation of legislation adopted by the States-General, that the level of benefit is adjusted to the cost of living in countries outside the European Union. That's important. That is the principle under the country of residence principle: a benefit is there to support you. If these costs are much longer, it is therefore fair to adjust the amount of benefit accordingly. This is happening in many countries outside the European Union, from Thailand to Morocco. This is made possible by this treaty. I see a movement in Mr Ulenbelt's mind, but I shall be going into his question about the precise reduction. Why didn't I wait until the association agreement came into force? How do we look at this decision? Isn't there a fight? As soon as the Association Decision between the EU and Morocco enters into force, the Netherlands is, on this basis, obliged to export survivors' benefits and disability benefits. It is therefore no longer possible to apply the principle of the country of residence to such benefits. On the other hand, the decision does not require the export of family benefits, the AKW and the child-related budget. Therefore, the relevant agreement on the application of the discount rate and termination as of 1 January 2021 shall not be affected upon the entry into force of the Association Decision. The country-of-home principle can also continue to apply to benefits under the Supplementary Act, because that law also does not fall within the scope of the Association Decision. The agreement between the Netherlands and Morocco therefore adds value to the Association Decision. As far as the decision is concerned, it is a direct result of the umbrella association agreement concluded with Morocco in the past. The negotiations and the Dutch commitment to that decision have been regularly discussed with this Chamber by my predecessor. The commitment was to ensure that the Association Decision and the various decisions are as consistent as possible with the Dutch enforcement policy on the export of benefits. Those negotiations were concluded in 2014. If the outcome is in line with the mandate, there is no reason to vote against it. There is no news of the current state of affairs in relation to previous communications. It is up to the European Commission to submit the result for final agreement to the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council (EPSCO). Following agreement by that Council, the next step will be the signing by the EU-Morocco Association Council. It is expected that sometime in 2017 it can be notified to the EPSCO Council. So that hasn't happened yet. Do I recognize, as the SP asks, that there is no application of the housing principle according to the discount rates you would expect? That's right. The 10% is the result of negotiations. As is always the case with negotiations, you set an amount or percentage at some point. And this is 10%. For me, it is important that the principle is applied. This weighs more than full application of the discount amount you would otherwise have applied. How were Moroccan Dutch informed about the Amending Protocol? At the same time, all kinds of organisations in which Moroccan Dutch people have joined and feel involved have been informed in the announcement of the agreement. I know from several reports that a lot of people are happy that the treaty has been maintained and that we have chosen a solution in the treaty that does not allow for existing cases. I am thinking of widows who already live there, of people who are difficult to adapt to the new treaty. At the same time, it is seen that it is fair for new generations, for new people to take into account the cost of living and simply apply legislation to everyone. The SVB, UWV and the Tax Administration have provided information about the amended convention through their website and the Social Affairs Office in Morocco has also explained the agreement on the website of the embassy and via social media. The Office also informed relevant stakeholders in Morocco about the changes through information bulletins. These bulletins are also actively handed over to customers during speaking hours at the office or on location in Morocco. Is it true that an EU citizen is entitled to unemployment benefit if he has only worked here for two days? This is how Mrs Schut-Welken asked on behalf of the VVD. The right of an EU citizen to, for example, unemployment benefits in another Member State is regulated at European level. An insured employment record or periods of employment from another EU Member State are aggregated for a WW benefit if the reference requirements of the WW are not met. This is laid down in Article 45 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the EU Social Security Coordination Regulation based on it. The Commission has recently submitted a revision proposal for this European regulation. The Commission proposes a waiting period before an EU citizen is entitled to aggregation of periods when applying for unemployment benefit. This proposal is currently being analysed interdepartmentally. As indicated in my letter of 19 December, I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible via a BNC sheet. I think it would be appropriate to discuss this further during the general consultation already planned for next month, because this is, of course, separate from the bilateral relationship between the Netherlands and Morocco. Mr Öztürk asked whether it would not be good to tackle tax evasion. I very much agree with that. Both as a social democrat and as a minister of this cabinet, I think it is important that people comply with their tax obligations. Mr Öztürk also asked about Poland. He noted that there was a different situation there than for people in Morocco. That's right. Poland is a member of the European Union and the country of residence principle applies to the export of benefits to countries outside the European Union and not within the European Union. It therefore applies to Thailand and Morocco, but not to Poland and Belgium. That is a difference, and Mr Öztürk has rightly noted it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u31	I thank the Minister for the answers. I have a question about the waiting period for people applying for a WW benefit in the Netherlands after their return from another European country. Does the Minister not agree with the VVD that it is very reasonable and fair that the requirement for people in the Netherlands to have worked 26 weeks before they can apply for a WW benefit should apply to people coming from another EU country? Should people from outside the Netherlands but from an EU country have the same waiting period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u32	In itself, I agree with Mrs Schut. It makes sense that there is a reference requirement for a WW benefit, but you have to take a good look at how you add those working hours together. I can imagine that a Dutchman who works in Belgium for twenty weeks and then loses his job in the Netherlands after six weeks of work, still gets a WW benefit. We need to find a new balance there, and that is why it is good that the European Commission has taken this forward. It also fits in with the mobility package and the starting point for posted work of equal pay for equal work. We also need to look at social security. We are going to study it and I look forward to a fruitful debate afterwards on the Dutch Government's attitude. Mr. Chairman. I have noted that most of the parties are pleased with the amended treaty, which we were able to agree on in an extremely good atmosphere, even though it was not self-evident. There is another question from D66: what about the return of illegal aliens? It has always been our view that these dossiers should not be linked, also because at the time I thought it was a false threat to stop the return. It was about social security and a specific treaty between the two countries from 1972, and you should not broaden that. However, we noted that it was difficult to achieve this in the period when the negotiations had been tough. We see that in 2016 a limited number of laissez-passers were issued by the Moroccan authorities. We are committed to effective return arrangements. The importance of this has, of course, only increased with the increase in the number of refugees and the increase in the number of people without the possibility of asylum who have gone to the Netherlands. It is our view that they should be returned. It is very important that Morocco cooperates in this. Koenders and Dijkhoff are talking to Morocco about this. It is a dossier that is based there and not one-on-one linked to the Social Security Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u33	The problem was, of course, and the Minister is right to say that these matters were connected. No matter what the Minister and I thought of that, that was the practice at the time. Do I hear the Minister say that the agreements, which fortunately have been made together with the Moroccan authorities, do not make the negative impact on mutual cooperation on return anymore a factor in the unfortunately still difficult discussion about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u34	Sure. Both sides, both the Dutch and the Moroccan governments, are pleased that this has been clarified and that it has been resolved in a way that does justice to the different interests. Morocco also understands that if the Dutch States-General adopts legislation which applies not only to Morocco but to the export of benefits outside the European Union, it is important to take this into account. In turn, we understand very well that it is very important to deal with the interests of existing cases in a proper manner, with those who are already receiving benefits. This is important for the Moroccan government and the Moroccan community in the Netherlands. Those elements are in this agreement. This no longer casts any shadow on the relationship between the Netherlands and Morocco. That's a 400-year-old relationship that covers far more parts than just social security. It also dates back to the early 1970s. It's not that weird that anno 2016/2017 is being adapted to this time of year. There is also a whole new generation of Dutch people with a Moroccan background who are not waiting for the seventy-seven approach. They're Dutch like all of us. That's why I'm very happy. This no longer plays a role in the debate on the return of illegal aliens, a dossier which is complex enough in itself and which I hope will soon work better than it has been until recently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u35	The Minister is very calm and happy to say that he is satisfied that 40% of the child benefit is taken away from the child benefit, 10% of the disabled and 10% of the widows, and that Moroccan Dutch child benefit will be completely abolished in 2021. Mr Rutte said that Minister Asscher was very loyal to the VVD policy, in particular the Rutte I pestilence measures. How is it that $800 million goes to rich expats? How can it be that millionaires and billionaires in the Netherlands simply get child benefit when they don't need it? Why does this Social Democrat not come forward with proposals for a fair treatment of everyone in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u36	I am well aware that Mr Öztürk does not agree with this proposal and that he is therefore also critical of the Moroccan authorities who negotiated these agreements with the Netherlands. He's free to do that. I think this is in the interest of both the Moroccan-Dutch community and the Netherlands in general. We have an interest in maintaining support for benefits. This means that benefits are available for everyone in the Netherlands if necessary. It also means that benefits can be exported to other countries. In doing so, account will be taken of the cost of living there. This applies to all countries outside the European Union. You can't agree with that. It's okay. The last interruption gave the impression that Mr Öztürk has come here to make videos. He's free to do that, too. That's up to him, but I think it's important to try to do the truth as much justice as possible. He claims that people no longer have health insurance, but it would please him if he mentioned that the bill was withdrawn. He claims that people are cut short on the AOW, but it would adorn him if he acknowledged that that is not true. He claims that people see that their benefit is now being taken away, but it would be a credit to him if he indicated that people were compensated for that. But I am not talking about the way Mr Öztürk does his job. I stand here on behalf of the Dutch Government. I am satisfied because we have made good agreements with Morocco in the interests of the whole of the Netherlands, in the interests of the Moroccan-Dutch community and also in the interests of Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u37	I see this minister is making movies, too. He also took over our slogan "The Netherlands belongs to all of us," so he learns with those movies. He says the Moroccan government has agreed. The Parliament in Morocco still has to agree. You put pressure on Morocco. You even used Aboutaleb to take away some of the Moroccan Dutch, while you also had other possibilities. I see rich people getting richer and poor getting poorer. That's what you see in the CPB calculations. I see you've been working like a reverse Robin Hood for the past four years. With the Moroccan Dutch you have taken some and especially the richer people you have given more by the cabinet you are now in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u38	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u39	The question is: how can you continue to talk to the left in election time, when you have just pursued right-wing policy over the past four years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u40	I have just said that it is a pity that Mr Öztürk does not have any difficulty in getting rid of the truth. That's what he's showing here again. Again, he's free to do that. It's not for me to intervene on that. However, Mr Öztürk's question is not related to the law we are dealing with. It is important that we in this country are and will continue to pay taxes and thereby ensure that people who become disabled, people who become widows, people who become unemployed and people who are sick are taken care of. In order to do that, it is important that you have benefits at a reasonable level. These benefits are not meant to have much more money in another country than here. That is fair, that is just, and people understand that very well. If you take a benefit with you to another country outside the European Union, it is fair to adjust it to the cost of living there. Life in Thailand is cheaper than in the Netherlands. We have a special relationship with Morocco. Since 1972 there has been a treaty with special agreements, so we have had to resolve it with negotiations. That wasn't easy. They were tough negotiations. They've been stalled for a while. I'm really glad it worked out. I am grateful to both Mr Koenders, although that is more his actual work, and Mr Aboutaleb as Mayor of Rotterdam for helping to resolve this in a good atmosphere with Morocco. That is in the interests of both countries. I think that despite Mr Öztürk's criticism, the Moroccan government is also pleased that we have come out in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u41	The last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u42	I do not know if they are happy, because with this measure you will also be harassing the first generation of Moroccans in Morocco with all kinds of questions about their income, their assets and what they have built up. You give the first generation Moroccan Dutch and also Turkish Dutch a lot of stress...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u43	Through the chairman, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u44	Yes, through the chairman. They built this country. They've made sure we all have this prosperity. What you're doing right now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u45	Through the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u46	...is bullying, bullying and bullying again. You need to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u47	The repetition in keywords gets shorter. That's nice in itself. The remark referred to control of asset fraud. I think it is in the interests of all of us, including Moroccan Dutch, that benefits are paid to people who are entitled to them. I believe that it is also in the interests of all of us that we should be able to control it, because fraud undermines the acceptance of benefits. It undermines the basis for bringing it together. I think it is one of the benefits of this agreement that we have made agreements with the Moroccan government on how to control it. I can hardly imagine that Mr Öztürk thinks that we should stop monitoring fraud. That is a very strange point of view. The suggestion was made in the interruption. I'll hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u48	The last comment or question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u49	That's a suggestion I'm making. The point is that the Minister is using his officials to thoroughly monitor certain groups and to cause a great deal of stress, while these people are no longer able to handle it at the age of 70, 80, and that in other countries he is simply letting go of all those expats, all those millionaires and all those billionaires. That is the double measure we want to combat. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u50	I hear yet another insinuation and falsehood coming out of Mr Öztürk's mouth. I cannot add so much more to it, except that I find it very unfortunate. I particularly regret that they are being thrown away in this way. In this case, I am talking about officials who do their work on behalf of the Netherlands with integrity and dedication. In doing so, they contribute to maintaining the support for the provision of benefits. That's work that's very important. It's not always a thank-you job, especially when you run into people who've cheated. They don't always appreciate the work. It would be appropriate for us to express our appreciation for the people who do that work, rather than throwing them out of here like they just did here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u51	We have come to the end of the government's first term. I'm looking around to see if there's a need for a second term. I see that this is the case and I give the floor to Mrs Schut-Wellness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u52	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment that he will not send us the withdrawal law for the withdrawal of the clearance law for the termination of the Convention until after ratification by Morocco. After all, material changes to the agreement and reductions in benefits are already having an effect. Once again, I say that the members of the VVD Group are positive about this bill. We would like the same principles of justice to be introduced into other legislation as well. A new EU directive on the coordination of social benefits is coming soon. It is precisely because this has not yet been fully decided and firmly established that we want to send a message to the Minister. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that benefits have been paid in the Netherlands by the Dutch taxpayer;]] [[Whereas we must prevent people from coming to the Netherlands to use our social safety net without having contributed to it;]] [[noting that EU nationals with a working history can now apply for a WW benefit immediately;]] [[considers that it is fair that benefits are paid by the country where the rights are acquired, as is the case with the AOW;]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands people must have worked 26 weeks before they can apply for unemployment benefit;]] [[calls on the Government to strive for a threshold of 26 weeks' work before nationals of the European Union can apply for unemployment benefit in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Schut-Welken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34489-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u53	Of course, Mrs Schut is always free to table a motion. I think the Minister would have said that we would soon receive a BNC sheet on that proposal. To be honest, I think that is a better proposal in a procedural manner. But I have a question about Mrs Schut's motion. Does she now say to all those Dutch border workers who live in the Netherlands but work across borders that they will also have less rights to a WW benefit if they have temporarily worked in Germany, for example? Is that the conclusion of what Mrs Schut is proposing? There is the free movement of persons, and there are still more Dutch people working in countries other than the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u54	It is not a question of addressing the total of the rights to a WW benefit that have been built up. I am concerned about the threshold, so the deadline that must have expired before you can apply for a WW benefit in the Netherlands. For example, we do not want a situation where people have worked for two years in Poland, are one day in the Netherlands without having a job, and can still apply for a WW benefit based on their employment history in Poland. It's possible now. You're gonna have to set a threshold there. This does not mean that these two years of work history in Poland do not count, but it does mean that there is a certain degree of threshold on the basis of the starting point that you must have contributed to the WW provision in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u55	Only more Dutch work in other European countries than vice versa. So I'm just wondering if this might cost money. Now Mrs Schut is not in favour of uncovered motions either, but it is true that there are more Dutch people working in other countries? Frankly, I can't see the financial consequences at all. Isn't this gonna cost money, potential? Did Mrs. Schut do the math? I find that useful to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u56	The directive is already available in draft. I've been looking into that. It would generate money, but it would mainly lead to a different distribution between Member States. The draft proposal, which I have already seen in the English version, does not say anything about costs for the Netherlands, just about a different distribution within Europe. But of course it is important that if you say in the Netherlands that people have to work 26 weeks before they can apply for a WW benefit, it is very logical that the same applies when people come here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u57	We have received answers from the Minister on the application of the country of residence principle in this agreement. Does Mrs Schut now recognise that the principle of housing, as envisaged in the law on this subject, is not being applied in full, in fact only for a little bit, in this treaty, namely not 40% but 90%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u58	The principle of housing is applied. The export of child benefit is also subject to the country of residence principle and ultimately completely discontinued. The VVD Group is satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u59	Let me get this straight. The country of residence principle was intended to adapt to purchasing power in the country. Application to Morocco would mean 40% ANW benefit. It's gonna be 90%. That's not a full application of the housing principle, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u60	Mr Ulenbelt shopes selectively in what lies ahead. When it comes to family allowances, the benefit is reduced and finally stopped. That is the great hope of benefits that goes to Morocco. It is therefore positive for the VVD Group that the principle of housing is applied in Morocco.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Chairman. What does the social security agreement between Morocco and the Netherlands mean for the citizen? Widows are reduced by 10% on their ANW benefit. People who are on their own after a death case, people who are in pain, they get caught. Unemployed persons are reduced by 10% on their WGA benefit. People who cannot work because they are ill, who are sidelined because of physical problems, are cornered. Child benefit is reduced by 40%. The child-related budget is cut by 40%. So even children don't leave this minister alone. For them there is less money to build a future. After 2021, the child benefit will even be completely abolished. Nothing, nada, nope for families returning. After 2021, the child-related budget will also be completely abolished. Nothing, nada, noodles for divorced mothers returning. A lot of people don't know this. Many Moroccan Dutchmen who will be cut short by this approach of the minister, of the PvdA and VVD, are not aware. The Minister mentions a number of organizations, a few websites. A few PvdA people whisper to the minister: yes, our supporters are okay with it. In doing so, he thinks that the Moroccan-Dutch community has been informed. I don't think so. We will not support this proposal by Minister Asscher, this proposal of Rutte I pest treatment, which has been taken over by the Minister. We do want people to be properly informed, hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas many Moroccan Dutch people are not aware of the adaptation of the Convention with Morocco and of what that adaptation might mean for them;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue an active and clear communication policy to inform Moroccan Dutch people in both the Netherlands and Morocco about what the adjustments to the Morocco Convention could mean for them;]] [[calls on the Government to pay special attention in this communication policy to groups which are difficult to reach and to people who are less powerful in the language,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34489-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr Öztürk's motion has yet to emerge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u63	It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u64	Mr. Chairman. It can be very short. Actually, no more questions have been asked. There is a motion from the VVD, which I would like to ask to hold, because it is good to include it in the proposal and in the cabinet response itself. There is no rush either, because that is also when we will take a position on behalf of the Dutch Government. So I request that that motion be held. It won't be long before we get that chip. Then we can have a debate on this. Otherwise, I have to discourage her, because it is very much the ordinary decision-making on these kinds of points of view, and then you cannot make a proper balance. We are now having a debate on social security and Morocco. There is no misunderstanding about this, but by taking a far-reaching position on how the European Union is dealing with the construction of the reference requirement for the WW, the order of this debate is being stretched somewhat. So I request that she be detained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u65	I understand the Minister's request. On Tuesday, the Commission has already made a reservation of treatment with the fact sheet, which is still to come. If this is dealt with before the election recess, I will hold the motion until then. Otherwise, I will put her to the vote at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u66	At the request of Mrs Schut-Thank you, I propose her motion (34489, No. 7) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u67	Fine. Thank you. Then we have the Öztürk motion in part No. Eight just got in here. That motion is unnecessary and I advise against it. We have done a lot of information in many ways. We also have people very much involved in the decision-making process. I think it is logical that the reactions are mainly relieved and positive because in existing cases people are not only spared but even compensated for previous discounts that have been applied in the past. That's fancy. That was also important for the Moroccan government. It is well understood that it is logical that this right should be applied equally to all in new cases. Anyone who wishes to export a Dutch benefit outside the European Union must bear in mind that the cost of living there is lower and that the benefit is adjusted accordingly. In the case of Moroccan Dutch people there is still a softening of the special position and the negotiations that have been there, but after it has already come to this, after a period of years, there is no need to devote additional information to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u68	A brief comment on the motion, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u69	The Minister says everyone is well informed. That is not the case. I understand that he thinks in the world of information and subsidy-related organisations: I've already informed so many people. A number of candidate chamber members who are close to him agree, but that should not be a criterion. There are also people who aren't very powerful about the Internet, language and things like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u70	What's the question about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u71	My question is again the following. It is an important agreement between Morocco and the Netherlands. It's 400,000 people who haven't been reached. Is the Minister still willing to investigate whether people are aware? Is he then willing to see if he can properly inform these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u72	If it happens more often, you get used to it. Similarly, we are getting used to the insinuations and attacks on the integrity of people who are not here today, with which Mr Öztürk has argued. He is now saying something about candidate-room members, he just had something to say about the political colour of the people who have spoken to me. I think it says a lot about Mr Öztürk himself doing so. If he asks me a question, he gets an answer. I answer politely, based on the content. Then you can disagree, that's part of a democracy. It doesn't get any better if you think you can make every speech stronger, in the interest of a movie or for whatever purpose, with insinuations that you don't support. I think that's gonna be bad for politics in the end. In any case, it is bad for Mr Öztürk himself, because this all radiates towards him. It is also bad for politics, as has been said, because people think that if you are not careful, there are 150 people here who do so. My experience is, also with MPs with whom I strongly disagree, because your politics look differently at the Netherlands, that it is better for the debate and better for democracy if you try to do justice to the facts and refrain from insinuations and attacks on integrity. That really says something about the speaker himself. Then I come to the question of whether I am prepared to hold a new information round. No. I have just explained that the government has done a lot to involve and educate people and that we are now in a different phase. An agreement has been reached on which both sides are satisfied. So the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u73	The Minister gives a detailed answer. He's also doing some insinuations. I see you're obsessed with our videos, which seems to affect you. There you have...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u74	Speak through the chairman! This is the third time I've said that. We're not in a bar here, and we're not visiting each other here either. We need to communicate through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u75	You are now addressing me for the third time in this tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u76	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u77	I know why you do that. But I think you can do that in a more tidy, President-in-Officeable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u78	Exactly. I expect you to do the same, and you really need to speak through the President, just as the rest of the Chamber does. You should not engage directly in discussion with the rulers and with each other. That's what I'm asking of you. I hope you respect that. Now your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u79	When Wilders calls this parliament a fake parliament, you look the other way. As soon as I contact the Minister that he is taking something from the Moroccan Dutch, you are trying to deny me the floor. You have to stop doing that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u80	Thank you. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u81	I think you were very clear: we have a clear rule for this. Through you, a question. The Minister said the motion was superfluous. I therefore assume that the information which has been started will be continued in full, so that everyone knows what it is going to do. Did I get that correctly? As far as I am concerned, Mr President, you will close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u82	Sure. Good thing Mr Van Weyenberg asks that. That's exactly what we have the agency for, which in Morocco communicates directly with the target group. Besides websites, a lot of effort is made to inform people directly. It is important to recall that existing cases are not affected. Just the people who might be more difficult to reach, because they live in remote areas, have nothing to fear from this change. In fact, in part, people are even compensated for past discounts. When it comes to the new cases, you can also expect Dutch people, if they are considering going to another country, to look into the consequences. We will continue to work for adequate information, which continues to do so. However, I do not think that the request for an extra round to be carried over would be sensible and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u83	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u84	The Minister asks me something, and I would ask him not to come up with insinuations when he makes statements in my direction. The minute the minister does that in my direction, he can get it back from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u85	That was a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u86	I heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-19-tweedekamer-5.u87	The motion tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
