ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on abuses in a goat farm. There are six participants in this debate. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mrs Ouwehand of the Group of the Party of Animals. Like everyone else, she has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u2	Mr. Chairman. Boxes are the disposable items of dairy goat farming, the invisible victims of goat's milk and goat's cheese. Like a cow, a goat doesn't just start milking on its own. That process is set in motion when she has thrown a young, as is the case with all mammals. Such an animal wants to take care of her young and suckle the young. But instead of the goat being allowed to suckle and nurse her lamb after birth, her young is taken away from her immediately and, if it is a goat, put on transport to southern Europe or transported to a goat farm. Thanks to voluntary inspectors from Eyes on Animals, what this actually means for the goats and for the excess goats, which are also there, has recently come to light. In such a fattening plant, the animals are intended to be fattened in five to six weeks for slaughter, often unsaturated. But the young animals are so sick, because of the stress and because they couldn't even drink their own mother's squirt, that more than 20% die before they're five or six weeks old. That percentage can reach 66%: two thirds! If two thirds of the goats in the fattening plant are literally dead from misery within a few weeks, we can assume that it was less miserable for the remaining animals at most. The animals are at great risk of viruses, which can cause painful ulcers, which prevent them from eating or walking properly. 20% to 40% succumb, but in all cases it is a tragedy to become a goat in dairy goat farming. In the Netherlands, some 80,000 surplus goats are transported per year to goat farms or put on transport. If 20% to 40% die because of the way they are treated immediately after birth, it is 16,000 to 32,000 animals per year. The Animal Party considers that unacceptable and morally irresponsible. Does the Minister agree with us? The Minister writes that the NVWA started inspections in March 2017. He writes that in previous years such situations with many weak or dead animals were not found. That's amazing. First there's nothing wrong and suddenly the mortality rates are 20% to 66%. Or has it not been inspected for a long time and is it only now that the public spotlight is on the lot of the goats? The Minister writes that situations such as those found by Eyes on Animals, in which animals are denied the necessary care, should not occur. That sounds nice, but to what exactly does the NVWA maintain? Is there really any interference? Or is it a matter of fines and warnings? If the Cabinet suggests that these situations are not going to happen anymore, then the Party for Animals wants to know how it is going to take concrete action. Scared by the fuss, the Ministry organized a conversation with the sector. Animal welfare organizations were not invited. It must result in a plan of action, but the direction of solution outlined by the cabinet does not seem to be inspired by a thorough vision of animal welfare. It is strongly reminiscent of Rabobank's reports in 2011 warning of the image damage to the sector if the well-being of the goats were not properly taken into account. That is something other than actually taking the well-being of the goats to heart. The Animal Party wants a national stop on dairy goat farming and a plan of action that does justice to the intrinsic value of these animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u3	Mr. Chairman. It's about wrongdoing in the goat farm. We're here almost every month for abuses. At the time, the Secretary of State at the time, he was no longer there, stressing that such situations, in which animals are deprived of the necessary care, should not be avoided. That's a ruling on behalf of the government. Now I would like to ask this Minister the following question. On 15 July 2017 a discussion took place between the Ministry of EZ and all the representatives of the goat sector: dairy goat farmers, goat brooders, dairy organisations, traders and, I understand, also veterinarians. Has that really led to the realization that something must be done? I would also like to ask the Minister the following. Time and again, it turns out that the entire internal chain monitoring is actually failing. We recently saw it in the fipronil affair, but it also applies to horse meat, shrimp and so on. It doesn't make any sense. We think you should never let a butcher judge his own flesh. That must really be the monopoly of the government. So we are against it and we want the government to take full control of it. Then you'll see that the good guys have nothing to fear and the bastards are taken out of society. I also hope that the Minister will allow the closure of businesses to take place more quickly. Look at Minister Weyts in Belgium. Delusions in a slaughterhouse? Abattoir closed. So last week, you're gonna be in trouble again? Abattoir closed. We must learn from that! Those Belgians are gonna pass us by. For almost eleven years I have actually consistently and consistently tabled the same motions, which could have reduced this misery and prevented it with a certain probability, at least part of it. You can never prevent everything, and I don't expect that from this minister, because as long as the homo sapiens exist, there will be animal misery. Indeed, as Minister Verburg once said to me, you cannot put an inspector behind every wall and every tree. But I asked for a qualitative and quantitative increase in NVWA. That motion was passed by the Chamber. Minister, please run it quickly, so that it gets sorted out. NVWAs often do not seem to be aware of laws and their application. I asked you this in a previous debate. There is a complete lack of knowledge on the recognition of animal cruelty. Unfortunately, my motion for a resolution on this matter has not been adopted, but both veterinarians and NVWAs and animal police need to know how to identify animal cruelty. Or is a hematoma, a hematoma, caused by a struggle between two animals? It's all recognizable. Dr. Van de Goot can teach that very well as a forensic doctor. We must take tough action against food mafias and food mafias and in cases of violations of the I&R system and abuse of medicines. I have often cited the relationship between animal abuse and domestic violence and other criminal activities. "Undermining" is what they call the police. Finally, we are always asking for high fines in relation to the crime, imprisonment for the animal executioners and those responsible, closure of the business, a life-long restraining ban, better cooperation with the NVWA and the animal police, and administrative law in synergy with criminal law. Finally, something I mentioned a few hours ago during the debate with the Minister for Security and Justice. There have been abuses at a slaughterhouse in Woerden. That's where a vet was assaulted. If all that's true, are those butchers still working? Because when you deal with people like that, it's impossible to be good with animals. And when you deal with animals like that in Belgium, it's impossible to get along well with people. So these people need to be taken out of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u4	Mr. Chairman. We're standing here because of a serious incident at the goat farm. For the D66 Group, what is important is what we can learn from this. What kind of problem is this incident? A similar problem also arises in other sectors. Think of calves and bulls in dairy farming and the killing of cocks in the chicken sector. That's why I'm looking a little wider. Friday, Kipster opens his doors. This company has a solution for putting in the shredder the cocks and for dumping soup chickens on the African market. And the chickens only eat leftover products. The latter is, of course, a wonderful example of circular farming. Kipster takes responsibility for the entire production system. The question now is: does goat farming also do this? There is a sustainable goat dairy chain, expensive milking is the usual practice and one third of the farms grow up with the goat farmer himself. Fine. As far as the fraction of D66 is concerned, the fattening of goats by the breeder is preferable to a specialised fattening farm: less transport, less medicine and less litter on the goat farm. But if goats go to a goat farm, does a goat farmer know what happens to the goats that go there? Is he getting any data on drug use? How healthy are the animals? And will he possibly be rewarded for that? As far as I know, the answer to these questions is no. Now the sector is under a magnifying glass. He has tripled since the year 2000. The sector had to do with the Q fever, which has affected countless people, and recently also with a moratorium in two provinces because of a suspected relationship between goat farming and health. The question is therefore whether the sector is under the NVWA magnifying glass. How many checks does the NVWA carry out per year in the goat farm? What, according to the Minister, is the dropout rate in the goat farm? Finally. With a good approach to this incident, goat farming itself can show that it can take full responsibility. That is why my question: is the Minister prepared to make a short-term plan with the goat sector so that the goat farmer can take responsibility for the health and well-being of goats?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u5	I'm a little surprised at D66's questions. The cabinet has written a letter in which there were even worse figures than known to the Party for Animals. In many goat farms the mortality rate is higher than 20%. It could go up to 66%. Those numbers are already known. The cabinet also writes that it is already in discussion with the sector about a plan of action. The unfortunate thing about that is that we see that no animal welfare organisations have been invited. This strongly reminds of what Rabobank warned the sector of in 2011: take a few measures, because the image damage will cost you much more than taking a few measures to improve the well-being of the goats. Of course, there must be genuine animal welfare and not image damage in the sector, right? In what way is D66 in the debate now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u6	What matters is that the goat sector does not regard it as a by-product or a difficult waste product. This is like the cocks at the chickens and calves in the dairy farming. They're just part of the farmer's business. This means that as an individual farmer you also have to take responsibility for the animals that you cannot directly value on your farm. You shouldn't think of this as a cost increase or the idea that you still need a space for that. All that may be true, but this is just part of it. Now the Minister has indeed said that he is talking to the sector. We've been a few months. I actually want to see this plan now, also in view of the fact that the sector is really in the spotlight right now. Now come up with that plan. Take that responsibility. And allow the goat farmer to take good care of the goats as well. That is my question to the Minister. I'd like to see that plan right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u7	But, Mr President, that's why we're here. We had a first conversation. The cabinet has written that the plan of the sector is coming in September, so that's all running now. It is now up to us to give the cabinet what the basic principles of that plan should be. I'm really surprised that D66 is only talking about the sector. Then we might as well go home. Then we will have no more responsibility here. Doesn't D66 agree that the plan of action must in any case meet a number of conditions, namely that it is really about the welfare of animals and that their intrinsic value is respected? That must be the starting point of that plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u8	Of course, the plan is about to focus on the well-being and health of these goats. Otherwise, you don't have to come up with a plan. It's obvious that's the goal. For the way that happens, I have confidence in the Minister and the sector. They'll have to do it together. We are not going to prescribe the plan in detail here. I don't believe in that. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u9	I hear Mr De Groot, quite rightly, asking very critical questions to the Minister. He also makes a point of a view, but could he be a little more explicit? Does Mr De Groot agree with me that the current breeding system is untenable and unacceptable and that something should be done about it if it cannot be done in consultation with the sector through regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u10	You can talk about that very toughly already, but I think it's time for the sector to move on. The sector needs to show that it takes that responsibility. Again, in view of the context of goat farming, the strong growth, Q fever and the moratorium, it is now really time for them to show it. Otherwise, you will indeed run the risk of getting yourself into a political dynamic, which means that you will be burdened with rules that only make business more difficult, and not necessarily more sustainable. Let me give you an example of phosphate in dairy farming. There is only one lesson we can learn from the way the Chamber has dealt with intensive livestock farming in recent years. The sooner the sector takes over, picks up all the issues and comes up with solutions that are solutions, the better they stay out of the wind. There's only one advice to the sector: stay out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u11	In my opinion, we are not here in this house as advisers and advisers of a sector, but as the interpreter of social feelings about what can and cannot be done, as legislators and as controllers. That's a different position. My question to Mr De Groot is and remains: is he prepared to work with me to ensure that the rules are set in such a way that the sector deals properly with its animals, here and in other areas? That instead of this approach, which I get a sense of padding and keeping wet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u12	We haven't seen the plan yet. Let's take a look at that first. I believe that GroenLinks and D66 are fully in line with the objectives of the plan, namely that animal welfare and the health of goats are at the heart of the plan. Let's see what the sector comes up with. Let's see if that's enough. That is why I ask the Minister to come up with this plan in the short term. We're gonna judge that. We do not say in advance: we draw all kinds of resources out of the closet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u13	I heard my colleague De Groot talking about 'an incident', but it is almost becoming a structural problem, as I said in my speech. There was a high mortality rate in all nine controlled goat farms, Mrs Ouwehand has also been well informed: I am also standing here at more than 20%, with an outlier to 66%. Those records have been sent to us, so it's already been examined. I want to have a reaction to that, because you mentioned "an incident." This really is a structural problem. And what should happen if people, slaughterhouses or livestock farmers neglect animals, withhold the necessary care, abuse them, torture them or you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u14	Is it an incident? The reason for this debate is an incident. The Chamber often responds to an incident. Something's come out in the press, with horrible images, and then we're gonna debate. I myself do not think that is optimal, because we really need to talk about how we can put the sector into a system in which entrepreneurs will naturally produce sustainable and animal-friendly products. The reason for this debate is an incident. That's why I'm talking about it. I ask again about the numbers and the checks of the VWA, because the goat fattening, if we go by those numbers, does indeed not have a best track record. As far as the fraction of D66 is concerned, as I have also said, it is by far preferable for the goat farmer to muck the goats himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u15	I asked what to do. In fact, I am trying to get support for arresting people who show miserable behavior towards animals and being neatly thrown into prison. They're defenseless creatures. These people must be banned from keeping animals for a lifetime, with a fine in relation to the crime. I would have liked to have a reaction from D66. That is also a party that stands for decency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u16	As far as I know, a proposal has been sent by the Minister of Justice to the Chamber to proceed with sanctions and a restraining order, the means you mention. We are in favour of this. We have to wait and see how that will be achieved. It's a letter that needs to be worked out further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u17	Mr. Chairman. The past few months have shown once again that, to put it mildly, there is a lot to do about animal welfare. For example, we were shown horrific images of Belgian slaughterhouses where animals were abused. We got horrible images of too many barn fires, because fire safety wasn't in order. We'll talk about that further separately. And today we're having a debate about a goat farm in North Brabant on the occasion of...................................................................................................................................................................................... The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is sick of the horrible images from intensive livestock farming. It is of course a good thing that the Dutch Food and War Authority immediately intervened after being tipped off. It's a good thing the NVWA is on top of it. In his letter to the Chamber, the former State Secretary speaks of an intrusive conversation that has taken place with the goat sector. My desperate question to this minister is: is an intrusive conversation enough? In intensive livestock farming we continue to be confronted with the regularity of the clock with matters which cannot be accepted, whether formally or not. Why do we think it is normal that in poultry farming all cocks are destroyed after one day? Why do we continue to love the cutting of tails and the burning of beaks? And that while on all these aspects there are alternatives. Precursors show that it can be done, with Mr Groot rightly referred to it as the Kipster initiative. What's wrong with the moral compass in animal husbandry? Back to the goats. At some goat farms, two out of three goats die prematurely. That's a bizarrely high number. But is a mortality rate of about 20% than normal? I also think that this is totally unacceptable. Does the Minister agree with me? If a branch of animal husbandry has such consequences, then we are actually past the discussion of whether animals are being deliberately treated properly. Then the system is not structurally sound. Does the Minister agree with me? If you put goats from different goat farms together at a very young age with risks of animal diseases, if you quickly put young goats on transport after birth, at home or abroad with long transports of more than 100 kilometers, if you don't have an immune system built up by too short a sucking time, yes, you ask for it. I refer once again to the 2004 report, which is called 'To a herd with more natural resistance'. Little has happened to that. These goats are indeed a residual product of the goat-melering industry. You want to get rid of it as soon as possible, but and passerby likes to make as much money as possible. And that, by its very nature, guarantees a careless and disrespectful treatment of animals. If you keep goats, you also have responsibility for the young goats. As far as we are concerned, they remain on the dairy goat farms. Preferably they will continue to fatten there in a responsible way and the breeding industry will simply be stopped as a separate industry. I would very much like a response from the Minister to the question of whether it is possible to consult with the sector in such a way as to ensure that these practices stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u18	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the abuses in the goat fattening industry. We've all seen the footage. And let me be clear about that: this cannot and must not happen. As a farmer, you need to take good care of your animals. The fact that this was not self-evident to this farmer in this example is extremely poignant. The goat fattening is part of the Dutch goat farming and the images are certainly not representative for the whole sector. Goat farming is a young sector that wants to develop into a sector that is future-proof and where food is produced in a responsible way. It is clear that there are still steps to be taken here. That is something the sector itself recognises. I am therefore in favour of the initiatives it has taken to develop a vision for the future. The fattening of young goats, but also a number of other subjects, will have to be part of this. I understand that the Ministry is actively involved in this and is in talks with representatives from the whole goat sector. Can the Minister indicate when the Chamber can receive a plan of action from the sector? I am often critical of the NVWA and recently we have had a strong debate with each other. But I cannot help but notice that the NVWA has done a good job in this respect, especially in connection with the letter. She's already got eyes on the goat farm. It has actively monitored, enforced, where necessary, and even acted in distressing cases under administrative and criminal law. And that's how it's supposed to be! It is good that abuses are reported and that the supervisor is acting, but in this case I would also like to mention another aspect. The footage referred to has been obtained unlawfully. This example is not in itself and I am concerned about that. Can the Minister indicate the relationship between NVWA and organisations such as Eyes on Animals and how is the illegal acquisition of footage handled? Are these organizations free to go? I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u19	Mr President, I keep my interruption to Mrs Lodder's assertion that these images are unlawful until the Minister has responded, because I happen to know that things are different. My question is about what Mrs Lodder says, namely that it is unacceptable but that we are working on a plan of action and that, fortunately, the NVWA has acted well. I asked questions about this to the cabinet. The cabinet says: beware, it must not prevent animals from being so weak that they die. But the question is: how does the NVWA maintain? What does Mrs Lodder know about the way NVWA intervened? That is not entirely clear to me, because from the letters from the cabinet, I note that the mortality rate will still be around 20% in the near future. This means that the situation will not change. What exactly does the NVWA's performance represent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u20	In the Chamber we often have a debate about the functioning of the NVWA and the VVD Group is also very critical of this. But if I have read the letters of the cabinet correctly and judged them correctly, then I take it that the NVWA had the boxing farm in its sights. The NVWA has not only acted as a result of this and has carried out checks, because the NVWA was already working on the goat fattening industry before that. In the event of this incident, that was different but not after. It is therefore not the case that these images have led to the idea of having to look at the goat farm. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And that can be said at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u21	All nice and nice, but my question is: what exactly does the NVWA maintain? We now know from the figures that many companies are paying attention: many companies! The mortality rate is higher than 20%. Sometimes it's 66%. N.V.W.A.'s gonna show up at one of those goat farms and then what? What does the NVWA do? What does Mrs Lodder know about the NVWA's performance? My impression is that warnings and fines are being issued and not that such a company is being shut down. They do that, while those goats die there, purely because of the way they are kept. They're taken away from their mother, they're not allowed to drink and they're put in a goat farm. That situation causes them to die of misery. What's the NVWA doing when she gets there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u22	I think enforcement belongs to the NVWA. I do not think that we should have the debate here about how the NVWA acts when it comes to a company, any company. What matters to me is that I read in the cabinet's letter that there has been a check and that enforcement has taken place. The letter also states that the situation in some companies was even so distressing that both criminal and administrative proceedings took place. In any case, that leads to my observation that the NVWA is doing an adequate job there. When it comes to goat mortality, it is right for Mrs Ouwehand to point out the excesses in goat fattening. That is not the whole of goat farming, I would like to point out. This is not acceptable, as the sector itself has rightly pointed out. It is a rapidly growing sector, which is working on a vision of the future, of which all these elements are part. I asked about the plan of action. I think I have read somewhere, or I have heard it in the discussions I have had with the sector, that we can expect that in the not too long term, but I would like to hear a concrete date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u23	I hear with increasing amazement the VVD's plea about illegally obtained images. What does Mrs. Lodder want? Would she have preferred that we had not had these signs of horrific abuses at all and that we had covered it all a little bit? Or what about it, anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u24	I'm very clear about that. I have started and ended my speech by saying that it is very important that signals are reported. But I'm right, I think, to worry when images are illegally obtained. I am also very curious about the relationship between the NVWA and organizations that come with that kind of images.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u25	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u26	It is not possible, I would point out, in the direction of Mr Grashoff, that we exonerate organizations which illegally provide images. But once again, without question: abuses must be reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u27	A very interesting discussion. I think that the vast majority of images of horrible abuses, whether they be animals or humans, are obtained illegally, because the laws and regulations are such that you are not allowed to make this kind of image on a private level. So I wonder if Mrs Lodder's priorities are right, and I really wonder what the VVD actually is like in this competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u28	It is very clear what priority we are giving. It is not for nothing that I started my speech on animal welfare and rejecting the way things are going in this situation and in this example. Unfortunately, a number of other farms in the goat fattening industry also meet this requirement. We cannot accept this, we cannot accept it and we must act against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u29	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u30	Mr. Chairman. I think everyone understands that a goat only gives milk when she first got a young. I think everyone also understands that not only new profitable goats are being born, but also young goats, who are not going to give milk. It's not any higher math. As with cows, the question is how we treat these animals as carefully and properly as possible. Is it really necessary for animals to bring lambs into this world every year? The images of Eyes on Animals have rightly caused great indignation. They make it clear that the goats, which are economically uneconomically viable, are treated by some companies as gross waste. Newborn goats are often removed directly from their mothers. They therefore lack the crucial nutrients and antibodies from the bug, the first breast milk. The goats are removed, with goats from all other farms put together in stables and then slaughtered within a few weeks if they do not die prematurely. Because in many of the farms, 20% and sometimes more than 20% of the goats die before they reach the slaughterhouse at all; Mrs Ouwehand has named it all. As an excuse it is said from the sector that the fattening of goats is not very lucrative. But of course you can only do that if you see the care of goats separately from the production of goat's milk. Then it is a choice not to bet money on the proper care of these newborn goats. The question we need to ask is what is the point of facilitating a sector in agriculture that provides so many living by-products; just the word 'by-products'. What purpose, apart from financial gain, are the expansion and scaling-up that we have seen in the sector in recent years? We know the consequences for the environment, where residents have an increased chance of getting sick. We know the impact on the environment. And now we also know the miserable conditions in which part of these excess goats have to live. Add all these objections together, and you have plenty of reasons to limit goat farming, to reduce the numbers, to reduce the risks and to make more demands on the welfare of these animals. Is the Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u31	Thank you. The Minister can answer immediately. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u32	Mr. Chairman. I think that the most essential point made by one of the spokesmen, without affecting the other spokesmen, is the point that Mrs Lodders started with. Mrs. Lodders said that as a farmer, you need to take good care of your animals. It's as simple as that. As a farmer, you need to take good care of your animals. I will go into the points that have been raised, but perhaps it would be good to mention a few figures so that we can place what we are talking about. We have more than 500 farms in the Netherlands where milk goats are kept. On those farms, there are about 350,000 dairy goats. The practice was to have those dairy goats lambs every year. That is not the practice anymore: the animals continue to give milk for longer and there is less lambing. Every year there are about 150,000 lambs on those 350,000 milk goats. That means there's 75,000 bucks. It is not the case, as Mrs Ouwehand says, that part of those goats go to southern Europe and part to the fattening plants in the Netherlands. The transport of these goats to southern Europe is over, because the rules on transport have been tightened. As a result, they are no longer transported to southern Europe. The animals are fattened in the Netherlands, then slaughtered and go to southern Europe as carcasses. That is the current practice. Of the number of animals I mentioned, those 75,000 goats, some remain with the goat farmers. Another part goes to the manure farms. Those are separate companies, where only those goats go. I'll tell you a little bit more about these companies. I can't see all those 75,000 bucks right now, and I'd like to have them, given what's going on in that sector. At the moment, there's about 17,000 more beasts I can't trace. That's because registration isn't perfect yet. I'm gonna work on getting that registration in place as soon as possible, so we can figure out what's going on with those kids and where they're going. So we can follow what's happening. Because I just want to follow very closely what happens, not with samples or anything, but I want to see what happens to those animals per farm. "By company," I say. There are a total of eleven goblins in the picture. This is also written to the Chamber. Those eleven goblins that are in the picture, 35,000 bucks have been brought in. Furthermore, a number of goats have remained on the dairy goat farm. Besides, you got the 17,000 I was just talking about. But the 35,000 that have been sent to these companies have a worryingly high mortality rate. Unacceptable high. Those animals need to be properly cared for. And when you see what the mortality rates are, those animals are usually not well taken care of. So that is very serious and reason to get on top of it. It can be very good, good for animals. There is also a farm where these goats are fattened where the mortality rate is 2%. So 2% is also what you can achieve, if you do it with love for the animal in a good way, as you can expect from a good farmer. 66% is, of course, totally unacceptable, but 20% is not necessary either. In goat farmers where controls have been carried out and where action has been taken, it has been found that mortality can be reduced to 12%. I think it could be brought back even further. That will now have to be done by company and we will have to be on top of it. We've got 11 goat farms in sight, but that image may not be complete. I have to find out because I want it complete. I want to follow what happens every company. That's not new. We started this in 2016 from the NVWA. Before March 2017, months before this gruesome broadcast at Hart van Nederland, there were already inspections at all the pictured goat farms. We found that three of the eleven we knew were no longer goats and the other eight were. We've noticed a number of things there that aren't right. There was then a concrete response against three of these companies. There has been criminal action or criminal action in preparation. Administrative action has also been taken. Criminal and administrative action can be separate. The Animal Law stipulates that if you do not take care of animals properly, administrative law cannot be dealt with, but that criminal law will be dealt with immediately. That's what we're doing. As soon as we find out from the NVWA that the Animal Law is being violated at that point, a report is made that goes to the Public Prosecutor's Office. All other rules can be enforced through administrative law. We can impose a penalty charge and an administrative burden. A penalty charge means that if a company doesn't do what it has to do, it gets a penalty payment. A burden under control means that if a company does something that is not allowed and does not meet the requirements, then we have to take the measures that need to be taken and keep the account with the company. I want to apply this combination of administrative law and criminal law optimally per company, because I believe that what has happened now is unacceptable and that strong action must be taken against it. I'm responding to what's happening right now, but I think we should stop it. Spokesmen also indicated this, in particular Mr De Groot. I very much agree with him and with the others who said that and want a plan of action from the sector itself. I also think that this should be done. We have discussed this with the industry on the basis of our findings. That conversation took place on June 15th. That was after Hart van Nederland broadcast, but I made sure that the arrangements for that consultation had already been made on 15 June. That was the continuation of what happened from March this year with all those checks per company. On the basis of what we established there, we brought the chain together and talked to it on 15 June. The chain has indicated that they understand very well that they are responsible as a chain for what happens to the animals. You can't use some animals and other animals and make them disappear somehow. No, you're responsible for everything that's going on in that chain, for all those animals. The sector feels that responsibility too. They are now talking about a plan to make it clear that all animals are given the care that a good farmer has been kept to give to his animals. I'll wait and see about that plan. I'm talking to them about that. I'll take a critical look at that plan. I really must have the conviction that the implementation of that plan and the compliance with what is contained in that plan will also achieve what needs to be achieved. Apart from the sanctions I have just mentioned, administrative law and criminal law, there is another possible sanction, namely what can be done in the chain itself. If you don't meet what's in the plan of action, the situation may arise that you can't dispose of your milk, that that milk is no longer taken away in the chain. Of course, that's something for a company that it can't deal with either. I therefore believe that with that plan of action, with its own sanctions that can be imposed and with the sanctions that we can take, it is possible to get the matter under control. That we must do our best to get that case under control, I am absolutely convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u33	At least I thank the Minister for what he intends to do. He's really taking it seriously, and I'm happy about that. I do have a question for him. Secretary of State Van Dam, the then Secretary of State, has also written to us that it was a serious matter: abstinence from care resulted in death. That's actually some kind of torture. That's some serious animal abuse. Does the Minister agree with me that the question is whether, if you have been able to kill even outliers up to 66% of those little defenseless animals in that way, are you worth being an animal keeper? 'Cause those people don't change. It has been investigated: an animal executioner is and remains a sick idiot and that is a recidivist. There is no animal executioner anywhere in the world who turned out not to be a recidivist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u35	Does the Minister agree with me that such people should stop keeping animals at all? They shouldn't get a second chance!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u36	I know that Mr Graus believes that there should be a restraining order. My colleague from security and justice has already said that he is currently investigating a restraining order in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u37	I welcome in itself the clear and firm language that the Minister has come out of this. Appreciate that. What strikes me is that he also says: we have talked to that sector firmly and he feels responsible. Could the Minister reflect on the fact that this sector could and should have felt responsible for a long time before that discussion took place, before there was social pressure and before the government took administrative and criminal action? What's wrong with the self-critical ability in that sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u38	I think that's a relevant question. The practice was that the animals went to southern Europe. We have acted against this by means of rules. The result is that they stay here. That means it's a new development. There are only a small number of companies that do this. We had 11 in the picture and eight were still functioning. Of those eight, three are currently in a circuit or criminal or administrative approach or both. Every company has been visited. We're gonna keep visiting these companies, too. The 17,000 beasts, young goats, which I don't have in my picture right now, I also want to have in my picture. So I'll work on that. If Mr Grashoff says that if the cattle had been properly cared for, what happened here would not have happened at all, I agree with him. That is why it is necessary for this sector to look very closely at what has happened here, at what is happening at the moment, at what needs to be done and at how it can be done. I will await that plan of action, and I will look very critically at it to see if it is strong enough to achieve what Mrs Lodder says, namely, as a farmer, just taking good care of their animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u39	This is also the answer I can get out of my way. Apparently, we share the more philosophical concern that is actually going on in such a sector that it doesn't go well by itself, but that it always has to be through the government. In my view, this is illustrated by the example given by the Minister. First there was the practice of a horrible transport distance for young living animals. Once again, through the government, a stop is being put in place. So one error is actually replaced by the other, after which the government can intervene again. I can't stop thinking it's a sad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u40	I know a lot of farmers and a lot of farmers. In the eight years that I was alderman in a municipality where many livestock farmers visited such an agricultural farm every week, usually a farmer. People usually love their animals. They take good care of their animals. But if this does not happen in a particular sector, or even more so in a particular sector than in other sectors, then it is up to the public authorities to recognise it as soon as possible and to act against it. But the starting point is that many farmers comply with what Mrs Lodder said, namely to take good care of their animals. I know it is, and if it isn't, they'll break the law, and then we'll act against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u41	I have two comments to make. The first is: the minister used the term "wait" twice in relation to the plan of the sector. I think it's too late for that now. We're talking about June 15th. It's almost September 15th. Is the Minister prepared to make a specific statement when he will send that plan to the Chamber? Does he want to give the sector a deadline in that sense? That's one. Two: is one part of that plan also stimulating the fattening of the goats by the goat farmer himself? This way we can take the specialized goat holders the wind out of the sails.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u42	First, that deadline. I do not think that is an unreasonable request from Mr De Groot. We found that there were serious problems in March of this year. It's September now. It seems to me that we still have to see in the third quarter of this year that we have this plan of action. It is not the case that we are waiting for a debate with the sector, but I think that we must put pressure on it. I need a good plan of action as soon as possible. I think the sector is aware of that, too. This debate will certainly contribute to that. I will do my best to do so in the third quarter of this year. Can I still do that? That's gonna be tight, 'cause I've got a week or two left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u43	That is an easy promise!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u44	I think I said that a little too easily. Let me just say that I have to have it done in about six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u45	Otherwise, you'll just come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u47	Thank you. There's always a minister, of course. I would have asked another question about the content of the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u48	At that farm where young goats are doing very well, where there is only 2% outage, it is also not the case that the goats grow up on that dairy goat farm themselves. All those bucks from that one company. It's just a small company. So they stay together, without all kinds of animals being added. And it goes well there too. So I don't know exactly what they can do best in that sector. They know a lot more about these goats than I do. They can come up with their proposals and their arguments. They can explain to me why they think that's enough and that it's good, and I'll take a critical look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u49	I think the Secretary of State had already promised that the plan would come in September, but if this minister still sends that plan in six weeks... we're very looking forward to it. I have some questions. Does the Minister have any idea of the welfare implications which are now outlined by the sector, as we have read in the letter of 5 July? Because expensive milking sounds more well-being than it is. That means the goat is simply milked for two to three years. Does the Minister know what that means for the welfare of the goats? Can the Minister provide insight into exactly what the NVWA maintains? Because we keep hearing that it is being enforced, but what exactly is that and what are the actual sanctions? And does the Minister exclude that the transports of goats to other countries will ever be resumed? We have seen earlier that the transports of younger calves have been shut down. We were happy about that, but they have now started again. It's nice if that doesn't happen to the goats anymore, but also the guarantee that it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u50	Transport is not prohibited, but is subject to strict conditions. As a result of these strict conditions, the animals remain in the Netherlands. If one is going to transport, then one has to abide by those rules. If that's what you do, it's okay. What does the NVWA maintain? We have a lot of rules. Some of those rules are criminally protected. Another part of the rules is protected by administrative law as regards implementation. All those rules uphold the NVWA. So it goes to that company, which determines what the situation is there, which then keeps that next to the rules, and in the event of a violation of those rules, criminal or administrative action is taken or both. I have ensured that three of the eight farms which are still fattening goats are subject to a breach of rules and that all three are now subject to vigorous action. Mrs Ouwehand's final question is whether I know about the welfare aspects of the dairy goats, when you compare goats that each year compare lambs with goats that give longer milk and only after a few years lambs again. I now have no data at my disposal which will allow me to compare the welfare of goats in both situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u51	Thank you. I made the point that the Ministry invited the sector to work on a plan of approach and that there is no animal welfare organisation involved. Let me say it carefully: we are concerned about the integrated animal welfare view of the plans. Does the Minister consider it important to look not only at the well-being of goats but also at that of goats? As far as the enforcement by NVWA is concerned, I can imagine that the Minister is not prepared to do so now. But is he willing to undertake to make the plan of approach clear what the NVWA has acted on exactly? I'm really curious. If animals are structurally so sick that they hang against death, is that reason for the NVWA to impound the animals or to shut down the farm? I would like to know in detail on what grounds and how action will be taken. I can imagine that the Minister cannot cough that up now, but I do think it is important to have a look at that when we discuss the plan of action. Can that be made clear when the plan of action comes to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u52	I can tell each company what's going on. That's not the point. I can tell each company what offences have been found there, what has been done in criminal matters, where a company is still in breach of criminal law and what we are doing under administrative law. But I do not believe that this debate is about exchanging this type of detail between individual companies. The point is that something has been found that the Chamber says: we want to talk to the Minister about what is going on and what we are going to do about it. I believe that I have made it clear to you that we are now going to carry out checks and re-checks on each company and that any violation of the rules, criminal law, administrative law or both, will be dealt with. That's the answer I can give you. I have that information at my disposal, but I think that this information is relevant to you in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u53	Well, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u54	Mr President, very briefly. The question is, of course, the following. If the mortality rate now, let us say, is 20%, if 20% of animals do not reach slaughter age and if that does not change, then the NVWA does not maintain the simple fact that the animals are so sick and have no care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u55	It's not like I'm happy when 20% of the youngsters die. Absolutely not. We have established that animals must be respected for their intrinsic value and that animals must be properly cared for. That is what we have laid down in rules, and those rules must be respected. We must ensure that these rules are complied with through enforcement. We have seen with each other that this is not the case in this sector, so we are acting. Every company is controlled. If necessary, each company shall be re-checked. Those checks have already shown that you can do just fine if you want to, so I'm not gonna go down to that 20%. I do not want to leave it alone with controls and re-checks and react afterwards. I want the problems to be avoided in advance. That's why I want a plan of action. These were the general comments. Let me now see if there are any additional questions from the various spokesmen I have to answer. I have therefore contradicted what Mrs Ouwehand says, namely that a conversation was organised because of the shock of the broadcast. I think it is a good thing that we realise that. I also appreciate what Mrs Lodder has said about this. The NVWA was working on this in good time. He recognized what was going on here and he acted on it. Even the conversation Mrs Ouwehand was talking about was already organized before that broadcast. I've made sure of that. I'm not planning a rural stop at the dairy goat farm. Consumers have a high demand for goat's milk. I think it is up to the dairy farmers to meet that demand responsibly. We'll talk about that tonight. I have dealt with the other points raised by Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Graus has outlined a problem which he takes seriously. I have indicated in his direction that the same applies to me. He says the government should take the lead. I think the sector itself should do the right thing. Businesses must do the right thing themselves, and the sector must organise it. They have their own system for that. They can also apply their own sanctions. I have said what is necessary about the plan of action. I have told you how this is going to be done, when it has to be done and what it has to be done. Mr Graus also spoke of severe penalties. The possibility of severe punishment is absolutely present. If criminal action is taken, prison sentences can be given. If administrative action is taken, fines of up to €810,000 are possible, or even more if a company's turnover is very high. The point is that it should also be completed in practice. That is why it is a good thing that the NVWA is doing a good job at every company where it detects these violations and is making sure that it gets to the Public Prosecutor's Office in the right way. If it is abolished by administrative law, the enforcers of RVO and NVWA must ensure proper criminal justice. I will see to that, because I find that very important with Mr Graus. Mr Graus' last point was about the abuses at a slaughterhouse. That's what the press has written about. The press reported that an incident had occurred at a slaughterhouse in Montfoort on 1 September. I think that's the slaughterhouse Mr Graus is talking about. Several staff from the slaughterhouse would be involved. On that day there was a veterinarian of the NVWA in the slaughterhouse, but he could not see what was happening outside the slaughterhouse. I understand that the person who would have been abused has reported it. It is now up to the police to decide whether to investigate it. Maybe that's what they're doing. It is then also up to the Public Prosecutor to decide on a follow-up action when a police report comes. That's not up to me. However, I can see that a report has been made and that a follow-up has been given in our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u56	I had already informed the vet concerned this afternoon that that might be the answer. I understand that, too, because it's all being investigated. There's been a report. But if it is all true what the veterinarian says that veterinarian appears to have been right a few times before and has even been right from the government on another file then the butchers involved should simply be kicked out. Because you shouldn't let them deal with animals anymore. That really has to end. That's also the point I want to go to. That restraining order must be a life-long restraining order. An animal executioner is crazy in his head. That doesn't do you any good. You don't become an animal executioner at some point. You're either an animal executioner or you're not. You shouldn't let these people deal with defenseless animals. The Minister already referred to his colleague from Security and Justice. I'd like a restraining order, but that should be a life-long restraining order. And they should also have a bereft bot. That sounds good, too, isn't it? That's what they need. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Want dadelijk hebben wij die Belgische slachters die koeienlevers hebben zitten opensnijden hier in Nederland.]] There must therefore be a bereft bone at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u57	I've said what I need to say about the restraining order. Mr Graus has expressed his views on this. We'll see what the Justice Minister comes up with. This will undoubtedly also be the subject of the attention of Mr Graus and other spokesmen in the Chamber. I therefore expect another debate to take place. What should be done against those who have been charged with abuse? The person who filed the report was also a veterinarian. There was a vet from the NVWA in the building at that time, but he didn't see what happened outside that building. There's been a report of the person who's been assaulted. This means that a criminal investigation, and possibly a prosecution, must be seen and considered. I cannot comment on that circuit, because I am not given any information on it. The incident mentioned by Mr Graus is well known to me. If measures need to be taken against those involved, it is up to the Public Prosecutor to pronounce and enforce them. I think I served Mr De Groot at his beck and call. He wants the sector, the goat farm, to be under the NVWA's magnifying glass. That's the case. He asked what the fallout was. We have given the percentages, but we have also noticed that those percentages are falling. I am not so much concerned with percentages. It's all about taking good care of the animals. Those percentages are an indication of this, but they do not say everything. Do I want to make a plan with the sector? I think that Mr De Groot thinks it is a good approach to addressing the sector on his own responsibility. We can talk about it, but the sector itself must come up with a plan that I will then assess. I think that Mr De Groot agrees with me that that is the path we should take. Mr Grashoff asked if an intrusive discussion would suffice. I don't think so. I think more needs to be done. I've also outlined what we're doing. As far as I'm concerned, 20% isn't normal. He says these practices should stop, and I agree with him. I have quoted Mrs Lodder several times. She also asked about the plan of action. My associates know more than I do. They have told me that we are still working to achieve what the Secretary of State has promised, namely to come up with a plan of action before 1 October. I've asked for a little more time than I actually needed, six weeks, but I'll try to come with it before October 1st. Mrs. Lodders said the footage was illegally obtained. What are you gonna do about that? From the companies we've got in our sights, we've checked eight. In three of these companies, we have identified the need for strong action in criminal or administrative matters. That's my first priority. I'm working on it. I don't want to equate that with the illegally obtained footage. You can't come to someone's yard without permission to make recordings there. There are rules for that, too. Whoever entered the company and who has done this kind of thing can report it. That will have to be dealt with, but I will leave that point for now. Mrs. Lodders asked what the relationship is between Eyes on Animals and NVWA. I'm not sure. The NVWA is provided with a lot of information and that information has to be valued. The question of whether or not information has been obtained in a lawful manner is of course relevant. But even if information has not been obtained in a lawful manner, I do not expect the NVWA to heed it and deal with other things. If that material makes it necessary to do things, then it has to be done. Both things must be done: we must ensure that every farmer takes good care of his animals and we must ensure that there are no illegal things happening on the heirs of farmers, such as entering stables without permission to make recordings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u58	I can imagine that the Minister is not prepared to do so now, but I think it would be good if the cabinet confirmed once again to Mrs Lodder that Eyes on Animals is a voluntary inspection organisation that always makes itself known to the farmer by knocking or ringing the doorbell. In this case, she called in the NVWA and said: we have found a situation that you really need to come and see. Eyes on Animals has worked with the NVWA to bring this type of situation in livestock farming to the attention of the inspections. I can therefore imagine that the Minister is not prepared to do so and must find out how that went in this case. But I would appreciate it if the unjustified accusation made by Mrs Lodders against Eyes On Animals were also formally corrected by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u59	I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand for her kindness towards me. I do not wish to suggest that I have the knowledge of this matter as she does. But I have listened carefully to Mrs Lodders. If image material has been obtained unlawfully, it considers that this cannot be done and that action should be taken against it. I cannot and will not contradict Mrs Lodder's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u60	I need to clarify that one more time. On the basis of the incident we're discussing tonight, I mentioned this. I find this worrying. There are also people who are worried about that. I do not think it can be so, and I hear the Minister also say that one illegality condones or exonerates the other illegality. At least I want that point addressed. I do not wish to argue in any way that the NVWA should ignore images which have been unlawfully obtained. On the contrary, she has to act, because she has to take every signal seriously. However, I did have the need not only to address this incident but to do so more broadly, because we see it more often. That's why I brought it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u61	That's clear to me. I am not saying that I find one unlawfulness of the same order of magnitude as the other unlawfulness. However, I believe that an adequate response must be followed to any illegality. I'll do my best to do that, too. I will not go into what Mr Hijink has said. That is because I have done so in what I have said so far. He also raised these points and made it clear how he thinks about them. He also asked me if it was necessary to lamb every year. That's not necessary. Actually, it turned out to be Q fever. When it was over, there were a number of animals who weren't allowed lambs. Then it turned out that they could give milk for a longer period. Then it came to pass that milk goats did not go lambs every year, but that a longer period was milked there. That is in addition to what I have said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u62	That's the deadline. Is there a need for a second term? In any case, it is with the first speaker, Mrs Ouwehand. The floor is up to her. She's got one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u63	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that goats born in dairy goat farming are almost always separated immediately after the birth of the mother and are in most cases transported to goat farms;]] [[Considering that in many goat farms the animals are so sick that more than 20% die before they reach the age of 6 weeks for slaughter, and that this percentage may reach 66%;]] [[noting that, in consultation with the sector, the Cabinet is working on a plan of action;]] [[Notes that both the percentages and the actual numbers of goats suffering from very poor health or even dying are unacceptable;]] [[points out that measures to prevent the disease and mortality of goats must be based on the intrinsic value of the animal and serve both the well-being of goats and goats;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan of action setting out concrete objectives for the prevention of disease and mortality among goats and in which the well-being and intrinsic value of both the goats and their offspring are conditional,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-933]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u64	A second, short motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, pending the outcome of further investigations, to ensure a national moratorium on the construction and expansion of goat stables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-934]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u65	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 2016 Identification & Registration (I&R) data analysis shows a high mortality rate on virtually all goat farms;]] [[Whereas the mortality rate on goat farms is high due to the combination of several goats from different goat farms in goat farms, while the immune system has not been sufficiently developed;]] [[noting that a substantial proportion of the dairy goat farms show that goats can be fattened on the primary holding;]] [[calls on the government to examine the possibilities of enforcing by law and regulation that goats can grow up on their own businesses, and to do so if the sector is not willing or able to do so on its own.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that since 2000 the number of goats in the Netherlands has almost tripled to 500,000 goats in 2016 and continues to grow rapidly;]] [[Whereas continued growth in the number of goats in the Netherlands leads to additional phosphorus emissions and other environmental and health risks;]] [[Whereas the provinces of North Brabant and Gelderland have announced a temporary construction stop for goat farms due to increasing health risks pending national measures;]] [[calls on the Government to limit the growth of goat farming by means of animal rights or other similar measures and to inform the Court before 1 February 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-935]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-936]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u66	Mr. Chairman. In the first motion by Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Hijink, on item No. 933, the government is asked to draw up a plan of action. I don't intend to. I think the sector itself should come up with a plan of action. I will then take a critical look at that. I will, however, include the suggestions made by Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Hijink in the preparation of such a plan of action. However, I advise the Court that the government should draw up a plan of action. The motion in part No. 933 is therefore not recommended. In the motion in part No. 934, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Hijink ask the government to ensure a national moratorium on the construction and expansion of goat stables pending the outcome of additional research. I'm not prepared to do that. Maybe I can get the motion to part number right away. 936, by Mr Grashoff, bring it in. It calls for animal rights or other similar measures to limit the growth of goat farming. I don't intend to do that either. At the moment, in certain parts of the country, the situation is that the government can conclude that there can be no expansion of dairy goat farming. They have different angles for that. From the point of view of public health, they can apply the precautionary principle and then act for that reason. They can also act on the basis of environmental and environmental legislation. We have seen that both in Brabant and in Gelderland a stop has been declared by the provincial authorities. I think that is the way forward right now. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 934, and the motion in part No. 936. In the motion in part No. 935 by Mr Grashoff, the government is invited to examine the possibilities of enforcing by law and regulation that goats can grow up on their own farms. I do not want to investigate this because we have already had this opportunity and have looked at it. It appears that there are legal obstacles to this at both Dutch, national and European level. It is therefore a matter of the necessity to do so and also of the proportionality of that measure. We do not think there is enough legal basis to do this. That's why I don't want to start that investigation. But that does not mean that this is not one of the things that naturally comes up when that plan of action needs to be taken. It is not a question of saying exactly what should happen to those young goats. The point is that a farmer must take good care of his animals. That needs to be filled in. We will see, when the plan of action is in place, what the sector intends to do about it. Then we'll judge it. I therefore also advise against the motion in part No. 935.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u67	That all seems clear to me. There is one short question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u68	I am a little surprised that the Minister is so determined to discourage the first motion. I read in the previous letter that the sector is coming up with a plan of action, but I also assumed that the cabinet wanted to feel responsible for the results. Do I now understand that the plan of action that the sector comes up with is completely non-binding and that the cabinet is not going to commit itself to actual results for the goats?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u69	Definitely not. It is ultimately about the result and not about the means. That plan of action must therefore achieve what we believe should be done. It must also ensure that young goats in goat farming are treated properly and properly by a farmer. That must be achieved with that plan of action. We are very much in contact with the sector on this issue. The sector understands this very well. The sector is coming up with a plan of action and we will look into it. If that plan of action is not satisfactory, we will see what we will have to do next. But it is now important to focus our energy on ensuring that the sector does what it has to do, namely to ensure that animals, including goats, are properly taken care of in the milk goat chain. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u70	Clear. So much for this debate. Thank you to the Minister for his presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-13-tweedekamer-13.u71	We shall vote on the motions in two weeks' time on Tuesday 26 September.
