ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the 30-member debate on the report on animal abusers' characteristics and backgrounds. Speaking time is three minutes per group. I give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate today on the nature of the animal research report. Although it is very valuable to investigate the characteristics and backgrounds of animal abusers in order to increase the chance of being caught, I read the report with growing amazement. How is it that only the abuse of pets is taken? Animal welfare violations in agriculture are totally disregarded. Every year there are billions, I repeat: billions, animal welfare violations in agriculture, every year. We are talking about 2.7 billion to 3.4 billion violations, a shocking observation. These include, for example, footblades, coupled tails, failure to carry out daily inspections on the health and welfare of animals, failure to separate sick animals and having them treated by a veterinary surgeon. Even more shockingly, this is standard practice. Animal neglect is not included in the study either, but this was last year in the research report How do the hares walk? Where are the battered farm animals? The police do not detect the abuse of farm animals, that is the argument. That's what the NVWA does. However, in practice this summer it has often become apparent that the NVWA has become a toothless supervisor without any impact force due to destructive austerity. It is also well known that animal cruelty in agriculture is rarely eliminated and rarely criminally prosecuted. The Minister has promised to involve the results of this study in writing future scenarios for dealing with animal abuse and neglect. How's it going? Will this involve the abuse of farm animals? After a very long press by various parties in this Chamber, the Animal Party, the Minister sees that a restraining ban on animal abusers should be possible as a separate sanction. We cannot imagine that the Minister will not include animal cruelty in livestock farming. The Animal Party also wants a life-long restraining ban on animal executioners. This is not a legislative amendment that we can postpone for ourselves. The debate on this must take place quickly. I'd like a response. The Minister states in the cabinet response that animal cruelty in the Netherlands is not bad. However, research shows precisely that in provinces where more time is allocated to the task "animal welfare" more animal abuse is detected. There seems to be still a lot of animal abuse outside the scope of detection and enforcement. The Party for the Animals wants the chance of the pack to go up considerably. For that, the capacity of the animal police has to be greatly increased. It shouldn't matter if you abuse an animal in Limburg or in Drenthe. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. Does the Minister with the Animal Party consider that we need a single prosecutor who is fully focused on the criminal matters related to animal welfare? We don't have enough to do with a task force. We also need this in the public prosecutor's office, so that knowledge and skills are put together in one place and the prosecution of animal cruelty is given the priority it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr Graus has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u4	Madam President. This debate is about something that has been one of the biggest motivations for me to enter the House of Representatives: the approach of animal executioners, taking them out of society, severely punishing them, imposing a life-long restraining order, throwing them in prison. I will not dwell on the many factual inaccuracies in the report. An earlier report on the origin of the animal police was also full of factual inaccuracies. I will not be childish, but I will mention a few in a moment, if only to show that I have seen them properly. The research focuses on human behavior and a strict definition of animal cruelty. Farm animals have indeed not been included; it has just been told by Mr Arissen. That's unlikely! The researchers inform that the latter animals are covered only by the NVWA. That is not the case. I myself participated in the agreements that were drawn up with Minister Opstelten at the time. It's bullshit; it doesn't add up at all. I'd like a response from the Minister. The sources consulted cannot in themselves provide an adequate response, but rather "in a context of mutual understanding of animal abuse and offenders." The nature and extent of animal abuse in the Netherlands has increased considerably with the arrival of us. I can say: my national emergency number 144. It's the tip of the iceberg, but how big is the iceberg, I ask the minister. I'd like a response. The conclusion from the report is that animal executioners occur in all layers of the population, yes, that's what my big man knew as well as that a profile is impossible but that it's mostly men. That's total bullshit. I'd like the Minister to take the FBI monitoring of animal abuse with me. The FBI is doing this kind of investigation; in the United States, they're a little ahead of us. The FBI does, and we don't. We're behind. We are a developing country when it comes to dealing with animal cruelty and animal executioners. There is no mention of the massive structural tortures under the free letter religion, or ideology, if one wishes. That's millions of animals a year. That is not being addressed; it is too crazy for words! However, there are several reasons why this report should not be regarded as full. It is too short an investigation, which confines itself almost exclusively to the relationship between domestic violence and physical cruelty to pet animals, while mental cruelty is much more common. That is also a criminal offence. I'd like a response from the Minister. We want to see well-known offender profiles of sadistic polyplayers examined in more detail, using the already existing studies. We will table motions for this if necessary. We also want to ensure that physical characteristics of an abused animal can be detected more quickly by all the actors involved, including professional heirs, veterinarians, animal police and NVWA. I have also tabled motions for this in the past. Where's the money for our veterinary forensics team? Those people are here, but they don't have any money. So that's what I'd like to see. In particular, there is a lack of training. I see I've run out of time, Mr. Chairman. It is very bad that this should be done in a 30-member debate; the people at home do not understand that. I've got plenty of laces. I'm gonna have to put it in motions right away. I can't help it either. I would have liked a response from the Minister to what I asked. Can he also ensure the conservation of NVWA's livestock animal welfare teams? Because they want to shut them down. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. We regularly hear of serious cases of animal abuse. Sometimes those stories are too horrible for words; I have read that report, The nature of the animal, too. At the same time, from the report on 'I believe that Mr Graus also recalled the net that you can also not speak of some kind of homogeneous group of perpetrators. This therefore makes it difficult and complex to deal with animal cruelty as such. In the response of the Minister, I do read a lot of good intentions and a good commitment, at least that is what I think. That begins, quite rightly, with the alert. Police officers need to be alert to animal abuse. As in the case of domestic violence, the children should also be looked at by default. But the VVD likes to see it the other way around. Can the Minister indicate whether, in the case of animal cruelty, the question of whether domestic violence has taken place, for example, is being considered? In this case, will standard signals be sent to the relevant colleagues within the police force? I spent one day with the animal protection police. At that time, I noticed that the people involved come behind a lot of front doors, see a lot and hear a lot. If we do not find the front door where the alleged abuse took place, we may be talking to neighbors. I do not rule out the fact that there are other signs of misery, of misery which the police should know about, but perhaps also of the municipality. That's my next question. Is the municipality also hooked up to receiving those signals? What further steps could be taken in this respect? The VVD would like animal abuse to be properly recorded, in so far as this is not already done, so that the information can be properly collected, the patterns can be recognised, effective and effective, and potential animal abusers can be detected. That's the point. I understand from the report that improvements are possible. The Minister's letter refers to a database for serious sex cases and the Basic Provision Enforcement. Did the authors of the report have that in mind or not? There is no doubt that the Minister has been in contact. Another theme, not directly related to the report, but as far as I am concerned, is serious biting incidents. We have just received a letter from the Minister on this matter. Measures have also been announced: what to do against serious biting incidents involving very aggressive dogs, fighting dogs? I would like to hear the latest state of play in so far as there is a change in relation to the letter we received earlier. What about the list of high-risk dogs? What scope do municipalities have to take measures on the basis of that list? Are they completely free to do that? Finally, I would like to say that the owners of dogs who are inciting the killing of dogs, and I know that a law is in preparation for this, can be dealt with when they take the risk that people on the streets are severely injured by refusing to keep their dogs in check and perhaps even training for aggression. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u6	I hope that the VVD is also in favour of the owner being dealt with and not the dog. Now the dogs are getting caught. That can't be the intention. I have a question for the honourable Member of the VVD. He called it domestic violence. That investigation into that relationship was already requested by me in 2008. Turns out it's not just about domestic violence. Child pornography, dog trafficking, arms trafficking, trafficking in human beings, drug trafficking; all undermining crime is related to animal suffering, to animal abuse. Mr Van Oosten, you are still standing. I didn't have the time. Could you ask the Minister on my behalf if he'd like to broaden that investigation? Can you ask him not only to engage in domestic violence, but also to involve other undermining crime in the investigations for decades?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Van Oosten, are you prepared to pass on Mr Graus' question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u8	I would be happy to pass on the question to Mr Graus, but I would like to make a comment on it. Mr Graus now pretends that all forms of crime are directly related to animal suffering. Perhaps Mr Graus has that knowledge, but I do not have it. If there are signs of domestic violence or other forms of misery and misery that can take place behind the front door, I want such a person of animal protection or the animal police there to think and look at 'what else do I see' and that is being passed on. That's all I care about. I think that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u9	I didn't expect my colleague to know that. I've been setting up an animal police force, an emergency number for 30 years, and you name it all. I've had 30 years of experience, 30 years of experience. And believe me: all forms of bastards are found behind the door of an animal executioner. They're sick idiots. If you can hurt such an animal, such a defenceless creature, you're sick in your head and you're capable of anything. Trust me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you very much and thank you very much, Mr Van Oosten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr. Chairman. The abuse of animals fills many with horror: horses that are beaten in remote pastures, animals that are sexually abused, dogs that have to fight with each other or are kidnapped or stolen as victims. I think the report was mainly about that sort of thing: people who consciously, almost out of sadistic considerations, commit these kinds of facts. There is, of course, a bay of further animal suffering, but that was not primarily central in this report. If we read that kind of news in the paper, it could make us sick. They're animals that can't defend themselves. We form an image of the people who are capable of doing this and we wonder if these people are also capable of more, for example, violence towards people. What went wrong with them? With the publication of the report The nature of the animal a better picture has been obtained of the animal abuser. A valuable addition for the police, and in particular for the 180 task holders involved in the detection of these abusers. When I read the report, I see a lot of things going well. The system of police officers is functioning well and there has been a structural increase in attention to the detection and alerting of animal traffickers since recent years. The significant increase in reports is largely due to this increase in attention and the increased number of opportunities to report animal cruelty, but also show that the problem is greater than expected. The picture I get from the report is that the archetypal animal abuser doesn't exist. That is an important conclusion in itself. Important for alerting and tracking, the conclusion is that, of course, it is often about people who are unable to deal with their aggression and who often have previous acts of violence in their name. Can the Minister indicate what possibilities there are for preventive attention to be given to this issue to those who have already come into contact with the police and the judicial authorities for acts of aggression? For example, is the issue of "behaviour with animals" included during aggression regulation? Is part of the procedure of emergency workers active in criminal law that they report possible animal abuse to the police? Often it has been assumed and sometimes it has also emerged in investigations that there is a connection between committing domestic violence and committing animal abuse. Now the Minister's reaction is that he finds it disproportionate to have any domestic violence reported by the police look around for abused or neglected animals. Does this not leave the Minister with opportunities, both in the fight against domestic violence and in the fight against animal abuse? In this report, this relationship is less convincing, especially because the research design has a much broader perspective. The Minister notes in his letter that there is a link but no causal link. However, an important question remains whether abusers start beating animals and then switch to fellow human beings or vice versa. Could the Minister indicate what link he sees, what that means for police policy and whether he might want to investigate this further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u13	He wants me to ask him another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u14	Possibly, but I would also like to ask the colleague a question. It turns out that a lot of enforcers are not getting enough training. Not only in the recognition of animal cruelty, many veterinarians still have difficulty with this, because it is not a good part of their training, but certainly in respect of the law. How can we better enable the enforcers to implement enforcement? If I were to make a motion on that, would you support it? I know a lot in your story that is similar, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u15	I think we should be careful not to overload the police on motion with all the priorities she has to set. Moreover, I believe that this report can make a significant contribution to setting up the police on how to look at it and what is going on. I am not going to promise you in advance that I support a motion on that point, but that is more from the point of view that I know how overburdened the police are already. I think that there are other ways of highlighting this interest in the 180 task holders in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u16	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u17	I had a promise from Minister Opstelten that something would be done about this. Unfortunately, the best man is no longer here and that is why I am trying to get a majority with the Chamber again. As far as animal police experts are concerned, I would like to know that sheer ignorance does not use all the letters of the law to tackle animal executioners hard. That is a very serious matter. They often have animal executioners in their hands, but because the police report is not drawn up properly, as I said by ignorance, because they do not use all the letters of the law or can use them through ignorance, many people escape the dance that later on will become a crime against people. Because your question has already been answered: there is a one-to-one relationship between animal abuse and domestic violence and also human abuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. You were done, weren't you, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u20	I now turn to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has almost twice as many pets as humans. Fish, carrier pigeons and birds lead in the count and then we know 2.6 million cats, 1.5 million dogs and 1.2 million rabbits. Despite these huge numbers, animal cruelty seems to be a rather invisible problem. Injury is not always visible in animals and often animal abuse takes place out of sight. Neighbors may notice a beaten dog when he's being shown off, but no one will notice it when a small animal like a rabbit or a guinea pig is being abused at home. Unfortunately, therefore, there is probably a lot of hidden animal suffering. The title of the report is: "The nature of the animal - Characteristics and backgrounds of animal traffickers." But the conclusion is that there is no such thing as 'the animal abuser', as Mr van Oosten pointed out. Often it simply lacks information to be able to say something about the characteristics of people who are guilty of these crimes. In my opinion, three things are needed to improve this: training, alerting and registration. I'll start with the alert. It's kind of complicated. As the Minister rightly points out, it goes a little far to actively look for animals throughout the house when reporting domestic violence, but this brings me to the point of training, and we can ensure that all agents know what to look for in order to identify signs of animal cruelty. I note in the report that there are major differences between the police regions. One region is much more active than the other. This raises the question, which I ask the Minister, whether there is sufficient basic knowledge in every police region to detect such crimes. I'd like a response. In addition, I would like to ask the Minister what part of the task holders has had this year's training. On this point, the cabinet response is rather vague. It is good that there is a pilot in which veterinarians are supported in recognizing animal cruelty. I have a few more questions about that. Doesn't this have the same problem as child abuse, namely that the doctor, in this case the veterinarian, is reluctant to report out of fear that it is a false report or that he is losing a customer? Is this additional expertise sufficient to address this problem, or are other measures really necessary? Then I'll get to the registration. The Minister admits that the information on animal abuse will be better extracted from the police systems. That's good, but does he also pay attention to unambiguous and simple input? Are the police systems sufficiently user-friendly? We know that in general this is quite a problem, so registration is often not in order. Finally, before the summer, a letter from the cabinet with the contours of the restraining order as an independent measure of punishment came from a motion tabled by Mr Van der Ham in 2010. Therefore, all support for the cabinet's intention, but I would appreciate it if the Minister could give an indication of when the draft legislative proposal actually goes into consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr. Graus, are you planning on interfering with everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u23	Well, you know I hardly ever do that, because you know me in other debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u24	Well, I have a different experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u25	But when it comes to animal welfare, I do most of the time, because I think I am one of the most competent people here. Mr President, I have a question, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u26	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u27	My colleague mentioned the training, enforcement and registration, but could he or his party also support me with the funding of the Veterinary Forensic Team? We have a Veterinary Forensic Team, a unique team all over Europe, but it doesn't get any money from the government. They need a few tons. It's not even about millions. It's true. It's true. It's true. It's true. It's true. I'm very sorry to have to ask, because I've been begging for it for years, but without a Veterinary Forensic Team and without a crime scene investigation, we're not gonna make it. Believe me, it is. So you're gonna keep fools walking around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u28	What is your question to Mr Grothuizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u29	I had already asked that at the beginning: do he want to support me in ensuring that at least the necessary money goes to that Veterinary Forensic Team? That's not about millions, which is often what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u30	It is clear, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u31	I also spoke about training, alerting and registration, for clarification. I don't know the Veterinary Forensics Team. I do read in the report and in other letters that there are already opportunities to consult Utrecht University, for example, in cases of animal abuse, in order to get a report. I do not know if there is such a need, but I am always open to reading a motion on that point properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u33	We only know one veterinary forensic vet. She is part of the Veterinary Forensic Team, but she is not involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u34	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u35	She's being left out of the loop. Please support me in this. If you want me to say this to the entire Chamber, animal executioners and future human traffickers, please support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u36	Mr Graus, I have not limited the number of interruptions, but that does not mean that you can interrupt endlessly. This is not a legislative debate, it is a 30-member debate. Thank you very much, Mr Grothuizen. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Like most Dutch families we had a kitten at home, Sientje. He was a pretty shy animal when we pulled her out of the pound. That also had a reason, because her former owners had pulled out her nails to prevent the bank from being scratched open, a case of abuse that still makes me hot. What the hell is wrong with people like that? That is also the central question in the investigation The nature of the animal. What is striking about the reading of the study.... others have said that the abuse of farm animals has not been taken into account. The reason given for this is quite institutional in nature: not the police, but the NVWA would deal with it. I do not want to interfere with that, but I am concerned that there is a very good reason for talking about farm animals as well. It seems highly likely to me that the treatment of the 400 million farm animals will have an impact on the recognition of the intrinsic value of animals in general, and thus also on the 1.5 million dogs and the 2.6 million cats in the Netherlands. I am not concerned about which authority or which minister is responsible, but about the correlation. Let me give you some examples. Chicken beaks are full of sensitive nerves and blood vessels. To this day, the government allows beaks to be cut off unsedated. Animals may therefore be adapted to inappropriate living conditions. What signal does the government send to all the owners of cats who want to protect their couch? Newborn kittens must not be drowned, even if you have no money to support them. But breeding farms can kill cocks by default once they are out of the egg; they are apparently too expensive by-products. So the signal from the government is very ambiguous. It undermines the standard that animals should not be abused. The researchers have looked at the characteristics, backgrounds and risk factors of perpetrators of animal cruelty. But why didn't they also look at their images about animals and the question of how these images are formed? In tackling domestic violence, we are not only focusing on persecution, but also on tackling stereotype images that encourage domestic violence, because that works preventively and effectively. In the case of animal cruelty, we only find that people sometimes react to their frustration or anger, but the question of why they think that this is acceptable or the question of what strengthens them in that belief remains completely out of the picture. Does the Minister not agree that this information would be very useful in getting a better idea of what drives the perpetrators? And doesn't he think this should still be investigated? Mr. Chairman. Speaking of domestic violence, I think that is a terrible term, because it implies something very domestic, so perhaps we should call it violence behind the front door. The police are going to modify the Basic Security. As a result, it will be recorded when there is animal cruelty and when there appears to be a relationship between animal suffering and domestic violence. That's good. But does this result in the database that the researchers have asked for? Mr Van Oosten asked there too. Does that database contain knowledge of the perpetrators from which patterns can be derived, so that we can really benefit from it? I come to my last question. If you compare the situation to the FBI, what are the big differences? What does the Minister think we can learn from the FBI's M.O.? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u38	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr Graus has no question for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u40	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u41	The chairman won't let me go anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u42	Next time. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. Whoever's abusing animals isn't right in the head. I think that is what the SP thinks, and that is one of the few features that you can perhaps take out of this report, which generally applies to animal traffickers. Animal cruelty is a subject that lives widely in society and that concerns many Dutch people. Those Dutch people will generally be sausage whether or not they are farm animals, neglect or other forms of abuse; they want it to end. My mailbox is filled with complaints from angry citizens asking how this is possible. That will be no different for most of my colleagues. Sometimes I try to explain why certain things are as they are, or what we are trying to do about them right now. But there are also times when I can't explain it. I cannot explain, for example, how an international pig baron with Dutch nationality, who has been sentenced, fined and even banned from work in Germany, can simply go ahead in the Netherlands and build new stables. Let me make a comparison: after several scandals in the medical world, we are now ready to have blacklists of doctors and dentists that can be compared at European level. This will prevent the wrong dentist from the Netherlands from getting back to work in Belgium. Such a blacklist should also be possible for the large-scale keeping of animals. I would like a response from the Minister, and I would, of course, like to have a commitment that he will make a firm commitment to this at European level. We cannot completely prevent animal cruelty, but we are obliged to see what we can do to the maximum and whether what we are doing is efficient and effective. The SP finds it worrying that between different police units there appears to be so much difference in the way in which they work and are reported. It starts with the facts. We must have them and they must be recorded in the same way. Not all animal abuse cases appear to be included in the figures as such. The large regional disparities, to which reference has already been made, are also remarkable. We would like an explanation for that. There are 180 task officers or, if you like, animal police officers, but if we have to believe the figures, there are not yet two criminal cases per task officer per year. What's the explanation for this? Is this a sign that our registration is not in order and these things end up among other things? Or does our animal police really find so few cases? With such little animal cruelty, we would be a very happy country, but I dare to doubt that. Finally, the independent restraining order. This is an important means of preventing rotating door animals from getting screwed up over and over again. Talk to the enforcers. One of their greatest frustrations is that it is always the same people who go wrong again. Before the summer, the Minister sent his Letter of Contours to the Chamber. There were some sensible things in there. When can we expect a concrete legislative proposal? Preferably before the arrival of a new cabinet, which may want to do everything differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u44	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.05 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr. Chairman. In fact, all the speakers dealt with the suffering caused by animal cruelty and the fact that, fortunately, we are much more alert than in the past, and much more is being done. In fact, all the speakers also indicated that they wanted even more. I share that ambition. That is why I have announced a number of additional measures in the contour letter which I gave to the Chamber. For example, I would like to mention the possibility for the Public Prosecutor to give an indication of conduct, even if there is no judicial ruling yet, and the possibility for the court to attach special conditions to a conditional conviction, which will also make a restraining order immediately enforceable, for example. I would also mention the introduction of a restraining ban as an independent measure and the tightening up of Article 425 of the Code of Criminal Law, which criminalises the use of an animal against another animal. In addition, I have outlined to the Chamber how the parties concerned, namely the police, the National Animal Protection Inspectorate, the NVWA and the municipalities, want to improve their cooperation on the basis of the lessons learned in recent times. In addition, I will come back to this later on when I answer the questions.Together with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Utrecht University, we started with the National Expertise Centre on Animal Abuse, for example in order to raise awareness among veterinarians and to obtain further scientific data on the nature and extent of animal abuse. In short, much has been set in motion. However, there are, understandably, a number of questions. I will answer them in the order of the questioners. Mrs Arissen asked for it first, but also Mr Graus and Mrs Buitenweg went into it, where the farm animals are in research and in the approach. Abuse of farm animals can indeed be reported, via the number 144. The further approach is then a matter for the NVWA. Mrs Arissen then continued with the question of how animal welfare in agriculture could not be included in this study. That wasn't part of the mission of this investigation. It was included in the report "How do the hares walk?', that the Chamber has been given. Mrs Arissen, Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Graus asked questions about a number of examples relating to the way animals are kept in agriculture. Those are logical questions in themselves. They can, of course, also be discussed in the discussion with Mr van Landbouw. Ultimately, it is a political weighting which measures you consider appropriate or inappropriate in keeping animals. As Minister of V and J, I cannot conduct that debate in detail. In addition, social standards may also shift in this area. This also happens when it comes to keeping pets: species are sometimes removed from the list or species are added.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u46	I do not know whether the Minister thinks he has answered the question I have put. In my opinion, it was not so much about not talking about farm animals as about the effect of the treatment of farm animals on the way we look at animals. This actually lowers the threshold of violence against pets. If you are allowed to kill animals because they are a by-product and are not useful, then of course it has an effect on thinking about animals and the intrinsic value of animals, which in turn lowers the threshold to drown kittens for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u47	It could be. I don't know if you can make such a relationship clear. Then you'd have to investigate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u48	That's actually exactly my question. It is strange that, when it comes to the characteristics and backgrounds of perpetrators, we did not mention this part, the thinking about animals, in animal cruelty at all. We're putting this at the heart of domestic violence. But I assume that the Minister is indicating that research is useful in this respect. That was my first question. My second question is: is he going to have that done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u49	I indicated that if you want to prove or disprove Mrs Buitenweg's connection, you need research to do that. Mrs Buitenweg draws the comparison with domestic violence. If only we had clear links in this respect, which would allow us to take preventive action so that we could prevent domestic violence. We know a number of connections, but unfortunately they are not so black and white and so clear that we can take preventive action. As I indicated, we will look at follow-up studies in consultation with Utrecht University. I cannot immediately promise that I will be able to include this in that investigation. That is very broad, and I can estimate that it is really not digital. I'd like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u50	The minister's gonna come back to it. Second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u51	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u52	Or in another way? Written?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u53	Look, what makes people criminal? That is, of course, a question that is much wider than the whole area of security and justice. That question is not specific to animal abuse and not specific to domestic violence, but much broader. There have been endless studies, often very emotional, around the question: what is in nature, what is hereditary, what is the environment and what factors are the triggers? So that is extremely complicated, which is why I distanced myself from the connection that Mrs Buitenweg made. That connection may seem plausible, but you should back that up. Nor can I immediately undertake that this subject, which I know is extremely complicated, fits within the research that Utrecht University is going to do. But I'd like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u54	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u55	I would like to thank the Minister for his kind attitude. I just want to say a few words about domestic violence. It is indeed accepted, it is also stated in the Istanbul Convention that there is a correlation between domestic violence and gender images, i.e. stereotype images. That is exactly what I would like: that the research should include which images of animals the perpetrators have and how those images were formed. This has to do, for example, with the view of animals as a product. But I think it is right that we should perhaps be able to discuss how an investigation could take place and what the questions might be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u56	The Minister replied that, as Minister for Security and Justice, he was not concerned with animal welfare abuses in agriculture. But I have spoken explicitly about 2.7 to 3.4 billion animal welfare issues. They were about actual violations of animal welfare laws. So those were actual violations of the law. I understand that the NVWA is the largest regulator in this, but does the Minister agree with the Animal Party that, given the definition of animal welfare under which this research was conducted, it is logical to include these abuses in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u57	To take with you in what? I already indicated that it did happen in one investigation and not in the other. So I don't understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u58	Briefly, explaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u59	I am sorry that I am unclear, but the fact is that the violations that the NVWA finds are therefore not criminally dismissed by billions of people. They may be decriminalized, but they rarely lead to a police report. They're not criminal, they're administrative. In the light of GroenLinks' question and of our contribution, it is and remains animal cruelty. It is and will continue to be an offence which you, as Minister of Security and Justice, have something to say about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u60	If the question is now clear, I ask the Minister. I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u61	I do not hear a specific question from me. I do not know whether the claim that the NVWA finds billions of violations is true. I even suspect that it is not true, because that seems physically impossible to me. But, Mrs Arissen, I am sure you are right that the NVWA regularly detects violations. The NVWA then has the entire tools available to a supervisor. I refer only to the NVWA in reply to your question about animals kept in agriculture, livestock farming in this case, because the NVWA has a specific task in it. The police aren't primarily about that. The police are mine, but the NVWA isn't. However, the NVWA knows how to find its way to the Public Prosecutor's Office if there is reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u62	Finally, Mrs Arissen, you can explain it again. But I'll give you: the shorter, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We note that research shows that there are billions of infringements in agriculture every year. They are dealt with by administrative law, while the degree of animal cruelty is as horrific as that of pets, if not more horrific. So my question is: does the Minister for Security and Justice agree with the Animal Party that this should actually be dealt with criminally rather than administratively?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u64	I would appreciate it if Mrs Arissen could share us in the report containing these billions, because I think, quite frankly, that everyone belongs to the term 'billions' with some surprise. That this is common, I give you won, but I'd like to get the report from you. Then I come to the question of whether anything is being prosecuted under criminal or administrative law. We have already laid that down in the law. That depends on the seriousness of the offence. At the moment, I have reason to tighten up the law in a number of areas. That's what I just outlined. But it is not for the Minister to say standing behind the microphone: this case is criminal law and this case is administrative law. That is what we lay down together in the law, and that is what we are going to discuss with each other in the not too long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mrs. Arissen, I'll give you an opportunity in a minute. Minister, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mrs Arissen asked about the local differences in the deployment of the animal police. Mr Graus also asked for this. It has been agreed nationally that 180 task holders are available, trained. So these are agents that can be deployed for multiple tasks. Fortunately, this applies to the vast majority of our agents. Exactly what agents are used for is always on the local triangle of mayor, public prosecutor and local police. Because there are a lot of events or threats of terrorism in one area at a given time or because there is another local reason why there is a great deal of commitment of agents on this subject, there may be less attention in such a region for example to the task accent animal cruelty. This phenomenon is common in the police. This also follows logically from the fact that we want the actual commitment of the police to be determined locally. Mrs Arissen asked if there should be a specialised prosecutor for animal welfare criminal proceedings. I am not in favour of that, because animal welfare or, unfortunately in this case, animal abuse would not be one of the regular tasks of an officer. There are designated contacts. The Public Prosecutor's Office also has an internal course on how to deal with animal abuse and really invests in its own knowledge network. But it doesn't help to use someone else full-time for that; it's good if that knowledge is widely shared within the Public Prosecutor's Office. Then I come to Mr Graus' questions. He also asked about the farm animals. I hope I have been able to answer that in the direction of Mrs Arissen. The next question is whether, in fact, Mr Graus's statement was that in the investigation the tip of the iceberg has risen but not how big the iceberg is. If we knew that, we would of course tell you, but I share Mr Graus' observation that we have an incomplete picture. That is also why I, together with EZ's colleague, support that research of the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Utrecht in order to get a clearer picture of the extent and nature of the problem. Then Mr Graus asked why there was no mention of mental abuse. That is not what happened in this investigation. The investigation also shows how difficult it is to get a picture of animal cruelty and the nature of the perpetrators. It seems to me very difficult to investigate the issue of mental abuse as well. I would also like to see if you can bring something like this with you in consultation with the university, but also here is my estimate that it will not be easy. Then Mr Graus asked if there was enough money in the police for training the task holders. There is regular refresher training of task holders. Of course, I'm always happy with extra money for the police, but it's not like the finances on this part are a problem. Then Mr Graus asked him, and Mrs Buitenweg went on to see if we could create a monitor in the Netherlands like the FBI has. There is now a monitor for the serious sex cases with animals. In the context of Utrecht University's research, we are looking for more information on the personality characteristics of animal traffickers. I've gone into that before. In about a year I can give an idea of the explorations we have done with Utrecht University. At that point I want to see if it makes sense to create a more extensive database, because then I really have more information about it. Then Mr Graus asked whether any other crime, as he mentioned specifically undermining, could be involved in animal abuse cases. As I pointed out in my letter, it belongs to the policeman and wife and to the public prosecutor's office to look at coherence with other crime. So the policeman who comes in for animal abuse will generally also ask and look around to see if there are any other offences or crimes. In doing so, a policeman is always bound by the powers he has under the rule of law. Mr Groothuizen was right to point that out, particularly when it comes to search. We have strict safeguards for this in the Netherlands. It's a big deal when the government enters your house and goes through it. So a professional policeman or woman will give his eyes a good living, will also ask if there are more problems, but should not search a house extensively without a very concrete reason. Whether that's someone you come into because of an animal abuse report, where you start looking for signs of another felony or another felony where you start looking for signs of animal abuse. You can ask around and look around critically, but you can't just search a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u67	Because you do not want to see me too often at the interrupting microphone, Madam President, I have collected everything so that I can ask in one go. I thank the Minister for the commitment that he will at least send us next year the research he will do in collaboration with the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Utrecht University. Surely my question is: could the monitoring that the FBI is implementing be involved? We can learn a lot from that. That's just a good tip. Could the Minister agree to that? Secondly, the recognition of mental animal cruelty is difficult, but it is already punishable by law. I have nothing against our law either, I say to the Minister. The law provides for physical and mental abuse of animals. But it turns out that younger, inexperienced policemen don't always know how to use the letter of the law to tackle animal executioners. Experience experts in the animal police say the same thing. My question is: could the Minister, in consultation with the Police College, ensure that something improves? How can maintainers of animal welfare be allowed to better implement enforcement? That was actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u68	I indicated that the training, including the level of knowledge of the task holders, is constantly paying attention. This is why training will take place again in the coming year. There are, of course, a number of aspects to this. It is about the legal knowledge that Mr Graus is referring to, but also, for example, about putting things in a report so that it can actually lead to prosecution, or the question of how to really get a good veterinary statement. These different aspects are taken into account in the training. Mr Graus's other question was whether, in consultation with Utrecht University, I would like to see what we can learn from the FBI and what is applicable. I'll be happy to discuss with them what leads that offers. I have some wishes now. Based on those pilots, I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u69	I asked another question about the veterinary forensic team. Perhaps the Minister is going to talk about this, but that is very essential. My question was why these people are still not allowed to do crime scene investigations. Because the moment all the tracks are entered and trampled, it's too late. Your predecessor, I say through the President, has promised that the veterinary forensic team would be involved in serious crimes to investigate. None of that worked out. This also applies to the recognition of physical and mental animal cruelty. In fact, Minister Opstelten promised me that. How's that commitment coming along?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u70	I would like to come back to that question in second place. Mr Van Oosten asked whether the police were also alert to domestic violence and vice versa in the case of animal abuse, and whether the municipalities were involved in such cases. I just indicated that I have faith in the professionalism of our policemen, who will indeed look around more widely. Part of this professionalism is that the police, if they are concerned about the family situation and have the suspicion or indications that there are several serious cases, make a so-called care report to the relief service. It's also under the direction of the municipality. In very serious cases, there are also the case referrals. To my liking we have that in the Dutch police organisation, which is generally very well anchored in neighborhoods and neighborhoods, so well invested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u71	With your permission, Mr President, I would like to ask two brief questions. When it comes to the municipalities, I am curious whether there are obstacles to privacy or otherwise that may not be all the information that is relevant. When it comes to the police organisation itself, if I may, I would like to have a little more clarification as to whether the animal agent, if I may put it that way, is looking at whether there is domestic violence or violence behind the front door, as Mrs Buitenweg rightly points out to me, or other forms of misery, misery, radicalisation and so on. Is that standard taken by the animal police when they enter through the front door?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u72	On the first question, whether all information can be shared within privacy regulations, the answer is no. In the context of other debates attended by Mr Van Oosten on the need for municipalities, aid workers and the police to be able to share information, I have sent a first inventory of the areas where we see bottlenecks. Furthermore, there are areas in which information can be shared. I promised to come up with a follow-up. I would also like to answer this aspect in the further development of the question on information sharing. Mr Van Oosten asked a follow-up question and cites the example of the animal cruelty officer. It could also be the other way around, for example in the case of child abuse or domestic violence, animal abuse is being looked at. Mr Van Oosten puts me in a difficult situation when he asks me to state that it always happens. In fact, I fear the answer is: not always. If the question is whether we are now paying sufficient attention to the possible coherence and to training agents to be alert to animal cruelty, I say yes. On the question of whether I am confident that our agents, who are of course not infallible, usually have the professionalism to see that connection, I give the answer to that with conviction. That's another thing than being able to say: it's always like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u73	I get that last part. By the way, my question referred to the situation where the task officers.............................................................................................................................................................. If the police have any suspicion of that, I would very much like to see it returned to the colleagues who are talking about it and perhaps ring it again at that house at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u74	The answer is very close. I am doing it this way: I will see if I can give a clearer answer in the second term. Otherwise, I have to come back to that in writing, because then I really want to verify the practice that Mr Van Oosten is asking for. Mr Van Oosten also asked about the state of play concerning serious biting incidents. Not only in recent newspaper reports, but also in the life of every parent who sometimes sits on the beach with a small child or walks through the park, there are very uncomfortable moments, where your child crows around and you see a loose model of dog you think: why does it run loose around my child and please don't let that degenerate into a bite. Unfortunately, we read with some regularity that this is happening. That is why I have announced a number of tightening-up of legislation, which I have just shared. The Commissioner for Economic Affairs drew up a list and informed you in May of his additional measures. He is now looking at how best to implement them with municipalities. The letter points out that a municipality already has the possibility to take a number of measures, for example the imposition of a leash or muzzle bid. We have also taken a number of initiatives to deal with bite incidents as well as animal fighting, preventive and repressive, as a result of the concerns we have about the excessive number of incidents. Police and Public Prosecutors are paying particular attention to this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u75	A brief question, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u76	I'm thinking about the bill on dog-hitting. Hit-and-run can lead to serious injuries to victims. It is relevant, however, that a proper registration of bite incidents is carried out, especially of bite incidents by aggressive fighting dogs who may have been trained for that purpose. Is this registration kept and, if not, can it be organised in such a way that it is somehow apparent from the police's computers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u77	I would like to come back to that. There is a registration, but I don't know how precise it is at the level of "bite incident" and "dog." I'll get back to you. I hope that Mr van Oosten's question on how to deal with people who are deliberately inciting and thereby creating risks has been answered by indicating that we are going to tighten up the instruments for this in the law. Then there is Mr Van Dam, who also mentioned the connection between perpetrators of domestic violence and perpetrators of animal cruelty. In fact, I was already discussing this in the little debate with Mrs Buitenweg. To make it more precise, you need research that is complicated by its nature. I would be happy to look with Utrecht University to see if there can be more clarity about these links within the research that she is going to do. Mr Van Dam also asked whether preventive measures are being taken in the case of people who have already been convicted, specifically aimed at preventing animal abuse. If someone gets mandatory assistance, in this case for a conviction for animal abuse, that will certainly be the case. Also in aggression-regulation training is more widely considered than one type of aggression. As Mr Van Dam points out, it is obvious that if you do not control your aggression well, that aggression can focus not only on animals but also on people, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u78	I hear the minister regularly say that the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine is going to do further research. One of the lessons that we all learn, Mr Graus, said just now, is that it is not about the animal but about man. If a psychology faculty were to do any more research, I'd understand. Can the Minister explain again how he thinks he's going to put this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u79	I indicated that I wanted more clarity on the issue. Before that, I contacted Utrecht University together with the colleague of EZ. It runs through the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. There is no doubt that we are able to find specialist brothers if this is necessary, but the reason why I am taking a stand on the various research questions that are being put down here is because we have been asked for a database for which we can ask whether there are any informants who are involved. I really want to discuss with them the areas in which quality research can be carried out, in such a way that we can also benefit from it, all within the scope of the year available for that purpose. But that does not rule out the inclusion of behavioral scientific aspects; perhaps I can sum up Mr Van Dam's question. Then I come to Mr Groothuizen...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u80	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u81	I think it'll be your turn soon. Or have you already discussed all of Mr Graus' questions, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u82	I come to Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u83	Did something stay down, Mr. Graus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u84	Madam President, it is not very common in this house, but I would nevertheless like to support my colleague from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u85	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u86	This is what I want to say. It turns out that future doctors, pedagogues, psychologists and psychiatrists are not adequately trained about aggression disorders; towards people more, but towards animals not at all. It's a very good thing he said. I really hope the Minister will take this seriously. If he can promise that, it'll save a lot of motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mr Graus is now making it very broad. He mentions a number of professional groups and points out that they would not be sufficiently trained in the problem of aggression. I don't know if that's true. If it becomes so broad, it certainly does not succeed in getting meaningful answers in the context of this research. So I am focusing on the line I set out earlier towards Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Dam, as well as Mr Graus. That is to say, see what lessons can be learned from the FBI database, see if we can use behavioral scientific insights and see if there are any personality features to be found. This may also include personality features that also play a role in domestic violence. For example, red wires, but possibly also preventive measures, can be discovered to prevent animal abuse. That's already a wide palette. If I promise you any more, I'm sure it's not gonna work out in a year. So I'm going to see if this is feasible. Mr Groothuizen asked very practically when the draft legislative proposal would be consulted. That'll be early 2018. He then asked about the registration systems, which are not yet perfect, as research shows. The aim is indeed to achieve greater clarity of imports. Mr Van Oosten asked specifically about the level at which this took place. I hope to be able to return to that in the second term. Mr Groothuizen also asked whether there was sufficient knowledge in the police regions. The answer to this is, in general, yes, because there are job holders and there is further training. At the same time, in every organization where you manage something you want to achieve something, you have to remain constantly alert whether the quality is in order and whether there is sufficient attention to it. The basis is in order here, but it remains a point of constant attention. Do people stay well educated? Are they going to that school? Is sufficient attention paid to animal cruelty? That is why it is right that we should keep our finger on the pulse with the research that I have often referred to. Mr Groothuizen asked which part of the staff members of the police had had additional training. As far as I am aware, everyone has been given additional training in two parts and in other parts to about half. If you would like a more precise overview of this, I must give it in writing. You'll forgive me if I don't remember. Then Mr Groothuizen asked whether the study did not indicate that a mandatory code of reporting for veterinarians would be necessary. That's one of the things we're going to look at in the investigation I've already referred to. There's already a code. The pilot will check to see if that code is working properly. At the moment we do not have any indications that an obligation would help, but we will keep our finger on the pulse in the pilot. With Mrs Buitenweg, I have already had an interrupting debate on farm animals. She asked me if the implementation of the task force's animal abuse is under discussion in the police. That's not true. On that point, I can reassure Mrs Buitenweg. We talked about the FBI and the domestic violence. Mr Futselaar asked about the quality of the police registration. I indicated that there were doubts about this, but there was an improvement there, partly due to the advent of the Animal Law, which means that there is a more uniform registration. Mr Futselaar charged that there would be two criminal cases per member of the task force and asked if that was true. I have already indicated that the extent to which task holders are employed in a particular region on animal cruelty is ultimately a consideration of that region. Not only in the case of animal abuse, but also in the case of other offences and offences, the police can do very useful work without a complete criminal case. That can also be done preventively or with a warning. The question when the bill will come, I've already dealt with it. I hope I have dealt with the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u88	I have asked the Minister to work for black lists for people who have had a professional ban on working with animals at European level. That seems to me to be a rather specific question, so I'd like to get a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u89	A European ban?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u90	It's late at night! For example, in Germany you can get a professional ban on working with animals. An entrepreneur who received this is still active in the Netherlands. If you are banned from working with animals abroad, it is not registered in a neighbouring country. The medical sector is now working with blacklists for doctors and dentists. We have had a few incidents and this could also be done at European level. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u91	Now I remember. This question is specifically about professional livestock farming and the example of the man who apparently did not keep animals according to the rules in both Germany and the Netherlands. That is really on the path of the agricultural colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u92	No, I certainly don't agree with that. It is not just about one person; it is about preventing this from happening. If someone has received a statutory ban abroad, it is logical that you should talk about it with the Minister of Justice, for example. Should we ensure that such a ban can also be met on Dutch soil and who is going to argue for it at European level? That's what I'm looking at this minister for. Besides, the person I had to have that discussion with stopped last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u93	I am, of course, referring to this recent example in the press, but I fear that it may happen even more often. It is really about professional livestock farming and it is in the area of Mr van Landbouw. Mr Van Dam is no longer a State Secretary, but Mr Kamp is now in charge of agriculture. I do not think it makes sense to make a European reporting system for the animal cruelty convictions I am about. I know how incredibly difficult it is to agree on the European reporting systems that we do currently have, for example to ensure that people suspected of serious crime or terrorism are spotted in good time. I estimate the feasibility of a European reporting system in this area so low that it would not be real to imagine that I will arrange it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u94	Finally, Mr Futselaar. Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u95	Then the Minister forces me to ask for a ruling from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u96	You have a right to do that. Then Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My second term is very short. I'm very glad you're allowing me to set something straight. The Minister asked me what reports I quoted when I was talking about 2.7 to 3.4 billion violations of animal welfare laws. That was the research of the foundation Animal & Law and Pigs in Emergency, which was updated last year, i.e. in 2016. It contains figures from the NVWA website, the source of the source is also available, and Wageningen University, the discomfort reports that were also discussed in this Chamber during an animal welfare debate. Once again, it is about illegally cutting and cutting tails, footblading in chickens and failing inspection and treatment by the veterinarian. The minister says he'd like to do more to tackle animal cruelty. The Animal Party notes that the vast majority of animal abuse, i.e. the violation of animal welfare laws, takes place in agriculture. Is it not in line with the expectation that the Minister will take steps here too and leave his hands together with the Minister of EZ?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u98	Thank you for the source. Then we can all look at the numbers. I'll get my hands together with EZ's colleague. I also refer a number of times to the letters he has sent on this subject. We work well together in this area, but the fact that there are different directors with different areas of work sometimes means that you refer to a colleague when it comes to certain information or questions. I had a debate before on the MH17 in which questions were asked about the closure of airspace. Yeah, I'll just refer to my colleague from I and M. That's not to be rid of it, but because there's also a limit to what a human being or an entire ministry can overlook. The professional livestock sector is covered by the colleague from Agriculture. So if your questions relate to that, I refer you to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u99	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the second term. At least, if there's a need. That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. Oh, sorry. I give the floor to Mrs Arissen. How can I say that? He was looking at me invitingly, so I thought... Mrs. Arissen, on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u100	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have one motion. I thank the Minister for his reply, but we still have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of animal welfare cases entered by the Office increased by 20% between 2012 and 2014;]] [[noting that one in three animal welfare cases is dismissed;]] [[noting that the figures of the Member (National Inspection Service for Animal Protection) clearly show that there has been a change of course since 2012 from criminal proceedings to administrative handling of animal welfare cases;]] [[Whereas an amendment to the law for the imposition of a restraining order comes to the Chamber as a separate penalty;]] [[Whereas the centralisation of knowledge and skills is necessary;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to appoint a public prosecutor at the Functional Parket in the field of animal abuse,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Arissen and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-926]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u101	Madam President, I will refrain from the motion on the FBI, because that is a commitment. I thank the Minister for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that sheer ignorance does not always use all the letters of the law to tackle animal executioners (hard);]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways of enabling current task holders to better implement animal welfare enforcement against both physical and mental abuse of animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to improve training in the recognition and identification of physical characteristics of an abused animal for all relevant actors including veterinarians, animal police, NVWA and other professional heirs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-927]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-928]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u102	I thank my colleague Lilian Helder, also a great animal friend, because she has given me the opportunity to stand here. After all, I am not on the Committee on Security and Justice. So thank you to my colleague. I would also like to announce, also on her behalf, that we are considering tabling an amendment to the budget procedure to give structural money to the Veterinary Forensic team so that even more animal executioners can be taken out of society in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u103	But first, I think we need a cabinet. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Oosten on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, of course, for the answers given by the Minister. I look forward to receiving further information on three points. This is reflected in the possible privacy injuries that would occur when it comes to transmitting signals to the municipality that have been collected by the taskaccent holders behind the front door. I would also like to receive further information on whether the animal police usually brings with them any signals that indicate domestic violence or other forms of misery, and which is therefore linked back to the colleagues who are dealing with this issue. Finally, if the law is to be a success in the criminalisation of sexual harassment, inciting dogs to avoid serious suffering and in any case to treat the owners criminally, it is necessary to have some form of registration of serious biting incidents, so that it can be directed against the owner concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers and call on him to do what he has done so far, and that is to put a certain focus on the issue of animal welfare. It's easy to bring the whole world in. It is also easy to include the way in which we keep animals in agriculture in the Netherlands, which does a number of parties to my liking. But what is at stake here and what I believe we are united in is our indignation at how animals are being abused, being deliberately abused. That is what, as far as I am concerned, the focus should be on. We will deal later, perhaps soon with a contour note in a debate following the petition An animal is not a thing. There are good measures in that. Above all, we must tackle those who deliberately mistreat animals. That focus will help us move forward. A broadening is, as far as I am concerned, a horse behind the wagon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u107	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive first-term response. My group awaits with interest the legislative proposal that, I understand, is being consulted at the beginning of next year. I think that this is an important step towards further improving animal welfare and doing something about this horrible animal cruelty which, as Mr Van Dam rightly pointed out, concerns us all. In reply to my question on training, the Minister offered to provide an overview of the training courses given to the task holders. I'd be happy to accept that offer from him. I would like to receive that overview, because it is very important that these people receive adequate training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u109	I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u110	Madam President. First of all, I would like to say a few words about Mr Van Dam's speech about the great difference between deliberate abuse and deliberate abuse. In my view, it is also possible, even if something is permitted by law, to talk about abuse when it goes against the intrinsic value of animals. I have two motions. One is about the investigation. I am grateful that the Minister wants to take a look at that, but let me make it clear what I want with that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the study "The nature of the animal' has focused on the characteristics, backgrounds and risk factors of perpetrators of animal cruelty;]] [[Whereas it has not been investigated how these perpetrators look at the intrinsic value of animals and their views have been formed;]] [[Whereas knowledge about this can be of great importance for a better approach to animal cruelty;]] [[calls on the government to investigate factors affecting the thinking of animals as intrinsically valuable beings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-929]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u111	Then I'll get to the next one real quick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the "Stay with My Animals" project shows that many victims of domestic violence remain in a violent situation for too long because the care of their pet is not regulated;]] [[Whereas it is not currently regulated that pets are registered by default when reporting or reporting a violent offence;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with the VNG, aid workers and interest groups, how to improve the reception and registration of animals of victims of violence in the alert and assistance process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-930]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u112	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's reasoning which we have heard this evening is a marvellous one, because in fact he says: if animal cruelty happens at a professional level, it is to Economic Affairs, it is an economic offence and it is up to NVWA, and the amateurs are for Justice. That's how I explain it. I think that's a very wonderful thing. In fact, I would like to summarize the policy of the cabinet with a quote from George Orwell's Animal Farm: "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others." Apparently, the emotional value of animals decreases as their economic value increases. In this context, I still have a motion for a resolution, because I believe that we can make it easier to take over foreign professional bans in the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that farmers with a professional ban can currently operate abroad in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts at European level to use blacklists for holders of animals who have been banned from working;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-931]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u113	Since the Minister still has to wait for the motions, I would like to say that my motion on part No. 928 on the recognition of animal cruelty was already co-signed by Mrs Arissen of the Party for Animals. So I will have to have an amended motion circulated with her name underneath it, so that the listeners know that she supported and co-signed that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u114	Yeah, okay. So the motion in part No. 928 is amended. I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u115	Mr. Chairman. The Arissen/Graus motion in part No. 926 asks the Cabinet to appoint a public prosecutor to the Functional Parket in the field of animal abuse. I have already indicated that I think it is much more sensible for prosecution to be dealt with by all the prosecutors and not just by one officer. For the very purpose that Mrs Arissen and Mr Graus want to discuss, I think this is an unwise motion. So I'm gonna give her away, too. Mr Graus still has an answer to his question about the Veterinary Forensic Team. That can indeed be used by the police and the prosecutor's office. He has announced an amendment on funding; I await that. Mr Graus has also tabled two motions. Its first motion calls on the government to examine how current task holders can be better able to implement animal welfare enforcement in the field of physical and mental ill-treatment of animals. To be honest, I do not see any reason to launch another investigation on top of the one I have already promised. An investigation sounds very friendly, but it does mean that I have to ask police officers and women, and in this case also the task officers themselves, on an aspect that deserves attention, but does not immediately give reason to add an additional investigation. I must therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u116	One very brief question, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u117	One question, Madam President. I am prepared to hold this motion if the Minister can promise me that he will question the animal welfare policy officer. This policy officer advises the Chief Commissioner responsible for animal welfare officers, and funnels all information from the regional coordinators of the animal police. Is that a possibility? There's one person who advises the Chief of Animal Police. If it's consulted, I'll hold the motion until further notice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u118	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u119	It's kind of weird to ask a minister to ask one specific employee under his political responsibility about how the work is done. I'm responsible for tens of thousands of people. The line should work in such a way that I will be informed when this is necessary. We also have regular investigations for this. But it's hard for me to say that if there's any reason for that, one of those tens of thousands of people at my desk is calling to ask: is work going to be okay? Then neither one of us gets to work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u120	No, Mr. Graus. You have the right to put your motion to the vote, because I understand that the Minister is not prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u121	That's right, Mr. Chairman, and that's what I'm going to do, but it's only one person who's been funneling all the information from all the animal policemen. That's why it would be so easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u122	I'll continue to dissuade the motion. The second motion by Mr Graus calls on the government to improve training in the recognition and identification of the physical characteristics of an abused animal for all relevant actors, including veterinarians, animal police, NVWA and other heirs. That is so broad-based that I can't do much with it. I already indicated that we provide regular training for task holders, including the Public Prosecutor's Office. But a call for better training gives the impression that something would be very wrong now and that we know exactly what we should do about it in training. I must therefore discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u123	One question, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u124	I'll make a second attempt. There are only two experts in this field: Dr Frank van de Goot and doctorandus Monique Verkerk. Those are the only two veterinary forensic experts; there are only two in our country. Why aren't these people involved in this? I'm asking the Minister. Then it would have been resolved, and then I could hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u125	That goes down the same line again. I appreciate the commitment of Mr Graus, but it really is not working to ask the Minister to talk to individual staff or experts, because then it would be possible to do so on any other subject. So it is really impossible to tackle any problem. You can expect the Minister to make regular inquiries to see if the quality of the work is good, if the organizations are set up so that signals come out, but you can't ask the Minister to talk to individual people on every subject. This is my third debate today. If I am asked to talk to individual people on every subject, then I don't have time to have debates here either. It's not gonna work like that. Then I come to Mr Van Oosten. I shall return in writing to his question on how bite incidents are recorded. The answer to his question about the task holders remains, as I said before the fist: it is indeed one of the professionalism of policemen and women, including job holders, to look at indications of other violence, including domestic violence. It would go too far to ask me to guarantee that this happens in 100% of the cases, but it is really part of their training and working methods to handle that broader view. I would like to deal with the question of privacy in the letter on this subject. Mr Van Dam asked me to be persistent at the same time in tackling animal cruelty, but also to keep focus and to monitor the division of work with the agricultural colleague. Those words are taken from my heart. I will therefore reply in writing to Mr Groothuizen. In any case, I will send a letter in response to Mr Van Oosten's questions, but I will also inform him in writing of the progress we have made in training the various aspects of the task holders. Mrs Buitenweg first of all has the motion in part No. 929 which calls on the government to investigate factors affecting the thinking of animals as being of intrinsic value. May I explain the motion in such a way that the scientists themselves can correct the question so that they can pass the scientific test of criticism? I know that Mrs Buitenweg herself has been promoted, but I cannot quite guarantee that the wording in this motion is so sharp that a scientific study can be based on that. However, I have promised that I will consult with the university to see if we can look at personality traits, motivations that play a role in animal cruelty. If I may explain the motion in this way, I'd like to leave her to the judgment of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u126	About motivations is part of the research. In the research it is referred to as "frustration" and "annoyance." I am concerned about what animal images are, which in one way or another makes this acceptable to the animal traffickers. That is where I put the links with the violence behind the front door, about which we have just had a discussion, because that also has to do with images of what is typical man and typical woman, which makes it easier for gender roles to be violence in these dependency relationships. So what I want is for us to look at what kind of images are behind it, which somehow makes violence against animals seem legitimate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u127	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u128	This isn't gonna fly. I indicated that I would like to look with the researchers at how they can conduct a study that meets some of the wishes of the Chamber. Mrs Buitenweg has interests that I can justify in itself, but I really cannot guarantee that you will be able to carry out a sensible investigation into them. Why not leave some freedom to the researchers in the conversation with my people about how to implement it? I simply cannot guarantee that what Mrs Buitenweg is now saying can be investigated in a proper scientific manner. Perhaps, if the researchers say yes to that and can reply to it within this period, but I cannot judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u129	Finally, but really focused on the motion. Don't repeat the debate. We've had it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u130	Yeah, finally. I understand very well that, in order to determine exactly what the research is, perhaps a scientific twist should be given to it. I could share that with the minister. Indeed, as it is now formulated, it is not a scientific question. If the Minister says that he is looking with the scientists at how the content of the motion can be better formulated, then I think that is fine. But then he gave it a different twist of content. I responded to that. I believe, however, that we can agree on the point that we are presenting the current wording of the motion to the scientists and that they can then see what the precise research question should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u131	That way, I can leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u132	Well, that's what Van Oosten thinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u133	Madam President, I see you sighing, but I think it is important to get it right. The Minister is now giving an opinion on a motion calling for investigation. That's not all for nothing. A lot of time and energy is devoted to this and then we come to talk about it. I have the feeling that Mrs Buitenweg has in mind a different interpretation of the investigation than that to which the Minister is going to instruct. If we, as the Chamber, enthusiastically support this motion, we will have an investigation that Mrs Buitenweg was not waiting for. And then what? I'd say that's a shame. I'll just be a moment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u134	You have made your point, Mr van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u135	I would now like to say that Mr Van Oosten is in the process of a good marriage. We had found each other because of the fact that I had already informed the Chamber, also in writing, that I would like to carry out in-depth research with Utrecht University. It is therefore not the case that I am now stacking something, which was rather my motivation not to accept Mr Graus' request for research in his motion. No, I've already announced that I'm going to do research. I also understand the question: what drives animal abusers? Does that have anything to do with worldview or personality traits? So I don't think it's a bad idea to put a question like that to the university.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u136	The motion in part No. 930.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u137	I'm gonna take another shot at the arm. Scientists must also say: we can reasonably investigate this. I therefore leave Mrs Buitenweg's first motion to the Chamber. In the second motion, in part No. 930, the government is invited to examine, together with the VNG, aid workers and interest groups, how to improve the reception and registration of pets of victims of violence in the alert and assistance process. The reception of victims of domestic violence is the premises of my colleague from VWS. So I can't just respond to this motion. If Mrs Buitenweg insists on her, then I can discuss it and then there will be a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u138	Mrs Buitenweg, I saw you nodding, but it might be good to report it to the microphone, too, for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yeah, that's good. The point is not that these animals must necessarily be at the shelter, but that they can be contacted in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u140	It's about holding the motion. Are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u141	I'll keep it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u142	At the request of Mrs Buitenweg, I propose her motion (28286 No. 930). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u143	The final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u144	The last motion is Mr Futselaar's motion on item No. 931.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u145	With an autograph, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u146	The motion also belongs to Mrs Arissen. This motion calls on the government to work at European level to use black lists of holders of animals who have been banned from working. With this wording of the motion, Mr Futselaar really focuses on keeping animals professional. That is the area of the Minister for Agriculture, now also the Minister for Economic Affairs. I am prepared, as I indicated to Mrs Buitenweg, to consult with that colleague and to come up with a written response. I indicated that I don't feel like it when it comes to not keeping animals professional, but that's not what the motion is about either. However, I can refer this motion to my colleague. Then I'll give you a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u147	You have until Tuesday to think about it, Mr Futselaar. Or do you know already?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u148	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna take my time to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u149	I think that's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u150	I hope I have now answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-9.u151	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of the debate. We are going to vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the people in the public gallery, the messengers and the staff. Have I had everyone now? Mr Graus also said that the stenographic service was also important.
