ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u1	I welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and the spokesmen of the various groups. I would also welcome the people in the public gallery if there were. Speaking time is three minutes. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u2	Mr. Chairman. The emergence of internet and online shopping is changing the retail sector dramatically. As consumers, we see many advantages. We can relax and simply shop from the bank all over the world, order food from the bank and book holidays from the bank, all at the touch of a button. Yet we also see risks. The street scene is no longer the same, more shops are empty and many jobs are on the way. V&D, Schoenenreus, Oad and many other stores have been bankrupt in recent years. Recently we were shocked by the news that Blokker will also close 200 stores and that 1,900 jobs will disappear. Minister Kamp uses the Retail Agenda to counter empty positions in the shopping street and set up new earning models. With the help of the Ministry of Social Affairs, the project Career Support Retail has also been launched. As a result, people who have lost their jobs in retail trade through personal guidance and skills development increase their chances in the labour market. Those are nice steps. But there's more to it than that. The impact of digitalisation on our economy and the future of work is high and creates a lot of uncertainty. The retail sector now employs almost 800,000 people, many of whom are insecure about their jobs. And there are more vulnerable sectors. Studies from the CPB, among others, show that sectors in which much routine and manual work is done are vulnerable. Now we are on the eve of a new revolution, a digital revolution that is moving at an unprecedented rate. How do we deal with work and prosperity? Can anyone benefit from this? In his study Working on the robotic society, carried out at the request of the House of Representatives, the Rathenau Institute points to the importance of maintaining the quality of work and job security in this new era. We've known revolutions before: the industrial revolutions. The Netherlands has benefited considerably from this in the past. But that didn't happen on its own. It required a vision and an active government. The government played a central role in regulating new practices, preventing excesses and distributing prosperity. The retail sector, together with the banking sector, is at the forefront of digitalisation and its consequences. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. What are the prospects for retail work? What is being done to maintain as many jobs as possible or to ensure that people in other sectors can get to work? What other sectors are vulnerable to digitisation, and where do we see more demand for work? How does the government ensure that in the future, with large-scale digitisation, as many people as possible can and will stay at work and that prosperity is properly and fairly distributed? And finally, how does the Minister see the role of the government, which in the past led to successful transitions of economy, work and prosperity, in this digital revolution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u3	Mr. Chairman. Who didn't grow up with him? Blokker's retail chains go back to 1896. Saapke Kuiper grabbed her husband Jacob Blokker by the arm and said, "Come on, let's start a cheap iron and wood shop." Their store was originally called De Goedkope IJzer- en Houtwinkel. In the following years, both the supply and the number of shops were greatly increased. But the prices and the staff remained nice. Blokker is the affordable shopping chain for all Dutch. That's why it hurts to hear that things are bad with such an iconic company. But now I'm mostly worried about the 1,900 people who are going to lose their jobs. This is a huge blow to them. They must find a suitable new function as soon as possible. As long as they do not have this new position, they must be well supported. The letter sent by the Minister in preparation for this debate states that Career Support Retail, part of the Retail Agenda, could provide a solution for these people. I have the following questions about this. The Retail Agenda started in April 2016. In his letter, the Minister writes that we will be informed about progress before the summer. It's almost summer. That is why I wonder if the Minister can lift a hint of the veil and outline what has been achieved with the Retail Agenda for employees so far, in particular Blokker. Is it already clear how many former employees of Blokker are going to use the Career Support Retail component? How is it ensured that people are well informed about this support? In his letter, the Minister writes that Blokker Holding intends to sell the shopping formulas Intertoys, Maxi Toys, Big Bazar, Xenos and Leen Bakker as a whole, while maintaining as much employment as possible, to a party that sees the future in the retail formulas. How can the Minister be so sure that the party that is going to take over these retail formulas actually sees a future in those stores and that that party, as we saw earlier at V&D, is not a private equity firm that breaks up and resells everything, with even more lost jobs as a result? Retailing is one of the backbones of our economy. Almost 900,000 people work in retail. The retail sector is even the largest in terms of employment. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister is implementing the Retail Agenda, but it is important that we ensure that this agenda really brings our country a step closer to a fair economy. I hope that all 1,900 Blokker employees who lose their jobs will be able to get back to work very quickly. I urge the Cabinet here to do everything possible and to do everything possible to support these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u4	Mr. Chairman. On 16 May 2017, Blokker Holding's plans were announced. Firstly, this is painful for the workers who are going to lose their jobs and the workers for whom their jobs have become insecure. Can the Minister outline the social plan that Blokker, we understand, has agreed with the unions? In his letter, the Minister states that Blokker Holding intends to sell the shopping formulas Intertoys, Maxi Toys, Big Bazar, Xenos and Leen Bakker as a whole while maintaining as much employment as possible for the 13,500 employees to a party that sees the future of the retail formulas. Is the Minister aware of the background why Blokker Holding has sold Leen Bakker separately to Gilde Equity Management? If so, what is the background? Today we are talking about retail chains that are prominently present in the shopping centers and inner cities. There's a lot of emptiness in the inner cities. In terms of viability and economic growth, it is important to reduce emptiness rather than increase it. The CDA therefore supports the Retail Agenda initiative. The problem we are talking about today is not just in the retail sector. For example, it also plays in the banking sector, where many termination rounds take place in connection with the rapidly changing market and digitalisation. The freed-up labour potential generated by redundancies is often not in line with employers' demand. Many workers currently working in a particular sector will therefore need to be re-educated, re-educated or re-educated so that they can also find a job in the future, possibly in another sector where there is a severe shortage of qualified staff. The CDA would therefore like the cabinet to make an extra effort to re-train and train workers working in sectors that are in difficulty. Attention is also needed in the field of cross-sectoral retraining, retraining and further training. In the letter, the Minister states that agreements on worker mobility have been made in the Retail Agenda for the retail sector. Can the Minister indicate what agreements these are and how this is going to take shape? And what about other sectors? How is it promoted to retrain workers in order to be able to work in another sector? What blockages should we remove in order for this transition to take place much easier and more effectively? Is the government prepared to work with the social partners, industry and education to draw up a human capital agenda so that supply and demand in the labour market can be better matched and adapted to economic developments? This agenda is intended to make training a second nature, as was recently described in a labour market report. Finally. Could the Minister give an update on the state of play in the field of the Technics Pact? In line with this: we read this weekend that the UWV even warns that growth in companies will be under pressure if there is a shortage of qualified staff. In addition, more work returns from abroad to the Netherlands. The urgency is very high and the competitiveness of the Netherlands is under pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u5	Mr. Chairman. Not so long ago, I was talking to a guy in his 30s who told me about his grandmother's household specialty store. They lived above the store, in a shopping street where, like in every street, a bakery, a butcher and a vegetable shop were located. Their business was doomed, because after six, a customer wanted to get a peel knife because it was urgently needed, but the bigger stuff was bought from the newcomers on the market, newcomers who could offer a sharper price because of their volume buying. Formulas were going to dominate the street scene and whether you were in Groningen, Zwolle or Maastricht, the A1 locations were filled by the larger players. Times change again. In the heaviness of urban renewal, extra square meters of shopping space were built, now for about 50 million Dutch. But the internet comes up, new players come on the market and consumers want to experience in the shops. Minister Kamp deserves a great deal of appreciation in this respect, because despite the mess that many municipalities and provinces have made of it in their ambition drive, Minister Kamp was prepared to play a directing role. The Retail Agenda came, best practices were shared, and where necessary they were updated from the Ministry. It's a role that the minister didn't have to pick up, but he picked up. Plenty of appreciation for that. Let me give him a big "A" for that. But also the more than 100 year old family business Blokker deserves appreciation. At Blokker they defyed the turbulent bars known to the retail trade. At its peak, the company had more than 6,000 stores in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg and Suriname. The people of Blokker were pioneers who created jobs in the Netherlands and made their tax payments for years. In doing so, they contributed to the economy. Yet somewhere along the way they missed a turn and gave room to other players on the market. It's possible. Despite this setback, we have the courage to continue to do so and in this struggle we are also prepared to provide resources to keep workers in employment by means of a social plan. Moreover, there is no fear of making difficult decisions in order to prevent the whole group from going down. This brings me to the purpose of this debate. It is quite unclear to me why this debate should take place with the Minister for Economic Affairs. The subject of this debate seems to me to be more appropriate to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. From that ministry, funds were made available to accompany the workers who have lost their jobs, as a result of bankruptcies, to return to work. Has it been assessed to what extent these resources have actually contributed to this? Fortunately, the retail trade is getting better again. There is still a long way to go, but I would like to take this opportunity to mention the entrepreneurs in particular. It is the entrepreneurs who are undertaking and therefore helped our country to get out of the crisis. The public authorities must only create the framework conditions for this. We shouldn't start thinking to the government that we're entrepreneurs ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u6	Mr. Chairman. On 16 May, the reorganisation plan of Blokker Holding turned the lives of another 1,900 people upside down. Previously, 840 Dutch jobs were lost at this company. So the counter's approaching 3,000. My group is asking the Minister to stick to it. Or are there more threats of dismissal? And what does it look like for the business units to be sold or to be self-contained, such as the toy stores and Xenos? The Minister notes positively that the recovery of the economy and the number of job vacancies is now beneficial for retail. That was indeed different when V&D went bankrupt and 10,000 people lost their jobs. The Retail Agenda is also marked as positive by the Minister in his letter of 19 May. In the project Career Support Retailers focus on personal guidance and have skills to help people from work to work. This project also points in the right direction. The family company Blokker also contributes to active work-to-work guidance. Blokker maintains good contacts with the trade union movement to help people change jobs. 50PLUS welcomes all that. But 50PLUS believes that extra effort is needed, despite the clearly better sternte for former employees of Blokker, and more commitment from the company itself. Additional effort is needed to help people structurally. Not only should there be a social plan for now, but a new cabinet should also include in the coalition agreement an integral plan for sustainable employability with a one-life-long learning budget for every citizen and structural intensive guidance from work to work in the event of unexpected dismissal. The labour market, which is changing rapidly, is crying out for that. Does the Minister share our view on this? Even in this period of job recovery in small and medium-sized enterprises, our job engine, the position of redundant workers at Blokker, and especially the elderly among them, is of great concern 50PLUS. As far as other jobs are concerned, it's often flexwork. Recently we saw in the CBS figures how vulnerable older people are in flex jobs. After three years in flex jobs, 50% to 80% of those over 55 are out of work and are on benefit. Older people must also be involved in maintaining or getting them as much as possible in permanent jobs. Does the Minister agree with us? Does the cabinet want to make a commitment to this? 50PLUS asks the Minister to examine, together with his colleague for Social Affairs and Employment, how reorganisation processes, and in particular on the start of parts of an enterprise, can respect the principle of reflection in the staffing. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Finally. What is the current situation of former V&D employees and employees of previously retired major retailers such as Manfield, Dolcis and Perry Sport? Can we give a current overview of this? Is it true that around 8,000 V&D employees have been made redundant, around 80% of those who have been made redundant, 30% of those who have been made redundant, and only 25% of those who have been made redundant? We all know that older people who are longer on the WW or on welfare are barely getting work. We cannot and must not leave these people to their fate. How's the cabinet going to turn this tide?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u7	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Graus, who has just left the Chamber. Oh, there he is! I give the floor to Mr Graus, who of course does not need any further introduction, but I would like to say that he is speaking on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u8	Madam President. Numerous primordial Dutch companies I write that preferably with "sch", Hollandsche winkel went head-under over the past few years. Think of V&D and Free Record Shop; I can add a whole list. Some of this is, of course, due to digitalization. The Minister has indicated this a few times. It is due to the digitisation of society and the strong growth of purchases over the Internet. However, our governments are also responsible for a bad business climate. If you write or talk to retailers about that, they'll admit it. I say 'governments', because it is not just with the Minister of Economic Affairs. We have relatively high taxes and administrative burdens in the Netherlands. We've talked about that before in this room. Also, entrepreneurs are not made easy by often conflicting laws and regulations, which means that they are unnecessarily burdened with high costs. We have also talked about this on a regular basis; I shall leave the examples aside now. We believe that the government puts the interests of the European Union above national interests, so that we are increasingly faced with false competition and an uneven playing field. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. I have to say that the Minister often denies things I say, but I have been right many times. When I said that the franchisees were in trouble, the Minister said that they were not. It turned out to be. I've had it with other cases, too. Of certain parking rates, the Minister said they were not a problem and afterwards it turned out that people were avoiding the city centre. We tabled a motion years ago to reduce trade mark and measurable administrative burdens, for example one rule, two off, and lower taxes. We have fought against false competition in an uneven European playing field. We provided a historical SME test, which means that legislation and regulation must now be tested first for workability and feasibility. We have also requested that that often sounds like peanuts to the parking tax. We have said: go for a year's trial of up to €1 per hour. For example, if you go to Amsterdam for a day, you will lose €30 in parking money. Here in The Hague you have already lost a few tenjes. People often just can't afford that anymore. The retail trade also suffers from this. As a result, even more people are going to buy over the Internet. This also applies to precario levies and other charges, which are not even levied for the purpose for which they should be levied or to which they should be used. I'd like to get a reaction to that, too. Often they are used by municipalities to close their gaps in the budget. Of course you can't. I would like to ask the Minister and the Government to reduce taxes and premiums so that wage costs can also be reduced. Once again, the Minister cannot change everything. He might not have been able to save certain companies, but let's see what we can do. I also want the Minister to look at the bottlenecks and, in cooperation with the Association for Dutch Municipalities, VNG, and Retailer Netherlands, look at the existing instruments of local tax municipalities. We also want these local taxes to be evaluated and assessed for efficiency and effectiveness. So I ask the Minister for such a problem-solving plan. If necessary, I will table motions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u9	Mr. Chairman. Five reorganisations in two years, many hundreds of people who previously lost their jobs at Blokker. Now another 1,900 people are added because 200 branches of Blokker and Marskramer will close the doors. Another 1,900 people will be in great uncertainty in the coming months. They will not know if they can work elsewhere. This certainly applies to older workers who know how difficult it can be for them after the bankruptcy of V&D. The SP likes to hear from the Minister whether he has had contact with his colleague from Social Affairs about the problems of Blokker. Are there any discussions with Blokker and the trade unions to see how the employees who are now in trouble can be helped? Can the Minister indicate how effective the Career Support initiative is Retail? For example, how many former employees of the V&D have been helped by this initiative? When PostNL, as well as AkzoNobel, were threatened by takeovers, this minister was committed to maintaining employment. Is he going to do that again, now that Leen Bakker is being sold to a venture capitalist? Is he going to use his influence here, too? And how does the Minister view the situation at Blokker? Does he recognise that the new ways of doing business, which the Minister likes to encourage, have not helped in the case of Blokker? How does he explain that? What lessons should other companies learn from the situation at Blokker? Will the Minister talk to municipalities about how to deal with the empty storerooms that will arise if so many stores of Blokker and Marskramer disappear? Many people who have lost their jobs will wonder what the shareholders of Blokker will notice. The Blokker family may no longer be involved in the company, but still owns shares of the company. Does the Minister agree with the SP that a family with an estimated capacity of 2.6 billion bears an important responsibility for the workers who helped build this capacity? Is the Minister also prepared to talk to the Blokker family so that the people who made this company great can also count on a proper farewell to this company, for which they have worked so hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u10	We have arrived at the end of the Court's contribution in the first term. The Minister has indicated that he can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u11	Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, in recent years, employment has improved and unemployment has declined. Employment is growing faster than it has grown over the last ten years and unemployment is falling faster than it has grown over the last ten years. The situation improves from quarter to quarter. This trend continues, because the economy is also attracting more. The forecast for this year is 2.5% growth. If you compare that to the beginning of this cabinet period, when there was a 1% contraction, then it is a spectacular improvement. As a result of this further economic growth, the labour market is also attracting further attention. At the moment there is already tension on the labour market, which needs to be resolved in the way Mrs Van Brenk indicated. You have to ensure that you make the most of the workforce in the Netherlands; there are still 400,000 to 500,000 unemployed. You do that by paying a lot of attention to permanent education, lifelong learning. Mrs Van Brenk quite rightly used that old term, because that is, of course, what it is all about: lifelong learning. Once you get a job, you can't just expect that job to last and that you'll be okay with it until you retire. You have to maintain your value on the labour market all the time. For that, you need to invest in yourself, in your own knowledge and skills. There must also be resources available from the employer and from the government. I therefore believe that Mrs Van Brenn is right in saying that one of the important tasks for the next cabinet is to ensure that the pursuit of lifelong learning is tackled in a truly planned and systematic way. I'll share that with her. It is not the case that we are currently experiencing a growing problem of unemployment or employment. On the contrary, our problem is becoming more and more a problem of tension in the labour market and how to ensure that the opportunities that exist are exploited by the people who should take advantage of those opportunities. Business is also improving in the retail sector, where it has been considerably less for a number of years. We all know how it has been reduced in the retail sector in recent years. We had the economic crisis first. So the people had less to spend. We had changes in consumer behaviour. People went downtown with other ideas and expected other things than what many shops had to offer at the time. Mr Ziengs has often talked about reducing the differences between the various activities in a shopping centre and giving shopkeepers the chance to deal with them more easily. People come downtown for entertainment and culture and of course also for shopping, partly because they need things and partly because they like shopping. This changing consumer behaviour and these changing consumer requirements had to be addressed. Furthermore, you can also see the big rise of online. There are more and more web stores. You can also see that more and more packages are flown in from China to the Netherlands: aircraft full of packages from the factories and suppliers in China. These packages are delivered to customers here in the Netherlands. It really is going to be an international market and there is a shift towards online. How does this work in the Netherlands at the moment? The turnover of web stores increased by more than 13% in the first quarter of this current year, i.e. in one quarter. The combination of shops, such as Mr Ziengs, who has often advocated physical shops that also engage in online activities, even had a growth rate of over 16% in one quarter. Employment in web stores grew by 50% last year to 24,000 jobs. In the retail sector as a whole, an addition of web stores, which currently account for around 8% of total employment, and physical shops, which still account for 92% of total retail employment, the UWV is expected to achieve a net growth in total employment of 7,500 jobs this year and a growth of 7,500 jobs next year. We all know what happened to chains like V&D that stopped. We now have the problems at Blokker, but in the retail sector as a whole there is an increase in employment. That's a positive thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u12	The Minister outlines a few general developments on employment, digitalisation and that sort of thing, but today it is specifically about Blokker's employees. Some of them are up there, in the public gallery. I do not think they can do much about the fact that Blokker's management has not been able to address the digitisation that the Minister is talking about. Nor do I think that they have played any part in the fact that Blokker is in red for EUR 180 million, of which EUR 100 million is due to the high cost of the clean-up. I would therefore urge the Minister to address today's specific issue: what are we going to do for the people of Blokker sitting there, those 1,900 people who lose their jobs out of their own fault?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u13	I'd be happy to. I found that Mr Özdil focused his questions on this, but he was not the only spokesperson. Several spokesmen have asked more general questions. I intended to outline first in general what is going on in the field of employment, specifically in the retail sector. After that, I will certainly deal with Blokker, because that is the subject for which you brought me to the Chamber this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u14	But before you continue your speech, Mr Gijs van Dijk would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u15	I thank the Minister for the first answers. I ask him to also address the changing skills associated with this new employment that is emerging. We can see that unemployment is falling. That is a great good thing, and it is also done by the efforts of this cabinet. However, for people who are now losing their jobs, it is difficult to come along with the very new competences that are required in the jobs from that new employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u16	Okay, with my apologies to Mr Özdil, I will go into this general point, which has rightly been raised by Mr Van Dijk. I have said that retail employment is rising on balance, but the growth of web stores is largely about new jobs in logistics and in ICT. In ICT, there is, by the way, a huge shortage of people. In the retail sector, therefore, there is a transition from demand for sales personnel to personnel with other skills. That is why it is so important what Mrs Van Brenk said, namely that we need to ensure that, during their careers, people adapt their knowledge and skills to labour market demand, so that they can take the opportunities they have. If they lose their own jobs, they will not be vulnerable, but they will return to the labour market. It is very nice that business and the government have managed to pull the economy out of the slump again. We are a very competitive economy. Our growth is greater than that of the surrounding countries. Our jobs are rising faster. In this situation, it is also possible for people who are well trained during their career to find new work. That's what I wanted to report. Even in the retail sector, where major changes are taking place, there is still more employment on balance. That is a positive fact, including for those who are now losing their jobs. Mr Özdil and Mr Amhaouch spoke about the history of the Blokker company. That company started in 1896, said Mr Özdil, and grew tremendously. It has been active in eight countries and has had a large number of chains. It's been a very successful company, and now it's been. Mr Ziengs said that at some point a turn was missed, but that management still has the skills and the courage to pick up and move forward. That's right. The Blokker of the future, as the management sees, consists of 400 shops with one large central warehouse from which the shops are delivered. The management wants to focus on this and make these 400 stores a success again. I think that's the right attitude. If the market changes and you get into trouble, you have to get out of there again. Management is now rejecting the different daughters. It tries to do so in such a way that the employment of those daughters is maintained. The first one sold, Leen Bakker, succeeded in doing so, while maintaining employment. For the others they will find separate buyers or in some cases perhaps find a combined buyer and at least look for them. Here too, the aim is to maintain employment as much as possible. To what extent, I don't know. It also depends on who the buyers are, what their vision is and what their skills are or whether they can revive a formula that might be difficult to revive, perhaps by a combination with activities they already have at the moment. The new owner of Leen Bakker also owned Quantum. Maybe that'll give us some options. I can't anticipate that. The total number of jobs is about 13,500. So if the spokesmen say there's a risk, they're right. Then it is good that Mr Blokker's leadership is trying to keep things going in such a way that there too, employment is kept as much as possible. Blocker and Marskramer are the two chains left. Marskramer continues as a franchise chain with a central delivery point, a central warehouse. At Blokker, as I have already said, the shops plus a central warehouse exist. That's what Blokker wants to keep going. The reorganisation needed there, with the 200 shops closing down, costs 1,900 jobs. I will go into that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u17	I would like to make a comment on the Minutes. This is the Minister of Economic Affairs. I cannot understand why this debate has been requested with the Minister for Economic Affairs. This debate, which concerns the workers of Blokker, should have been held with the Minister for Social Affairs. I think that is an important point, because we are asked why we are not talking about the Blokker workers. That is not possible with this minister. This should be discussed with the Minister of the PvdA, the party of the applicant for this debate, Minister Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u18	Do you have a question or do you only want this item included in the Acts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u19	This is very essential, Madam President. We can only address the Minister for Economic Affairs in the way that this can be prevented in the future. We have all taken that into account in our efforts, because that is what everyone has a view on. That's what the Minister's responding to. But we cannot ask for a rescue plan for the workers here, because that is what we have to do with the Minister for Social Affairs. That's good to know for the people at home who can't follow it anymore. This debate is called 'debate on the mass redundancies at Blokker', but we should actually do that with the Minister for Social Affairs, not with the Minister for Economic Affairs. We're debating with the wrong minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u20	Your point is clear. I was wondering if you had another question for this minister. Your point will, of course, be included in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u21	I wish the Minister further success in replying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u22	Perhaps my answer could also be included in the Acts? That answer is that the Chamber asked me to come. If the Chamber asks me, I'll come. If the Chamber had asked for the Minister of Social Affairs, it would have come. If the Chamber had asked for both, they'd both have come. We're like laundry in the hands of the Chamber. Now that she has asked me, I will try to answer the questions as best I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u23	And so it is. Mr Gijs van Dijk also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u24	In any case, I am pleased that we can have the debate with Minister Kamp tonight. Why? It concerns the retail sector and the Retail Agenda as part of it. Indeed, Blokker is part of the retail trade. In the Retail Agenda, for example, we are talking about how to get people from work to work in a good way. I just asked a question about the people who have worked at Blokker for 20, 30 years, who may be at risk of losing their jobs and who do not yet have the skills and skills to get to work in another branch of the retail trade. The Minister is right to say that we need to invest in lifelong learning and training. People must be ready for the new era, but with these people there is tension. There is no investment in training or expertise. People are looking around: who can help us? My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs, to Minister Kamp is the following. Does the Retail Agenda, and all the measures it takes, offer prospects for these people, who have worked for a long time, who are at risk of losing their jobs and yet want to get back to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u25	The Retail Agenda focuses on achieving at the end of the major changes in retail in such a way that it is attractive for consumers to go to shopping centres and that it is attractive for retailers to do business there, so that they can earn their money there. That is what we are trying to create, together with the property owners, the shopkeepers, the municipalities and the provinces. Because we all have an interest in it. We are working in the Retail Agenda to coordinate our activities and to work together to find solutions to the problems that arise. I come to the problem raised by Mr Van Dijk, namely the 1,900 people who lose their jobs at Blokker. First of all, it is good to note that Blokker Holding has its own social plan. This means that money is available per employee to ensure that an outplacement agency can be used per employee. People can be helped to start up their own business. There can also be a contribution to training that people want to do to get another job. If people need specific advice for certain activities, they can get it. Mr Blokker's social plan is on top of the financial compensation given in the event of dismissal. That financial compensation is in line with what is regulated by the law as a transitional fee. It is therefore dependent on age, pay and the number of years employed. Those are the opportunities offered by the leadership of Blokker to the people who are going to be fired. In addition, you have the UWV. This will help people without work and those looking for work. What is happening this year is that 160 million additional structural funds are allocated to the UWV to ensure that there can be more personal contacts. These personal contacts are concentrated in particular on those who have a somewhat more difficult job in the labour market, including the former employees of Blokker. They can get active support from the UWV. In addition, we know that there are major sectoral plans by the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment during this cabinet period where opportunities are being created, in cooperation with employers and employees within sectors, to ensure that people can find employment in the sector as well as in another sector or retain jobs. A total of EUR 600 million has been made available to support a wide range of activities in this area. The cabinet first of all ensures that entrepreneurs see the opportunities to grow are given the opportunity to do so. We create the general conditions for this. Moreover, in cases where individual people need additional support, we have made the necessary improvements during this cabinet period. I think the combination of both is really necessary. We need to ensure that there is a desire for employment and that people who are less strong in the labour market receive additional support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u26	If we want to find a solution for the 1,900 people of Blokker, it might be good to take a step back to the situation at V&D a year ago, February 2016. Eight thousand people lost their jobs there. When we ask how many people of V&D are not at work today, it turns out to be about 50% of that group. I don't think this is just a matter of money. I do hear the Minister talking about 500 or 600 million and another 160 million. But the question is what barriers we need to remove so that we can make the transition much faster in an overstretched labour market. There are retail people who were fired last year and still aren't at work after a year. This may be within the sector, but the CDA also calls for the attention of the Minister for Intersectoral Solutions. This morning I read in the news that taxi company Munckhof asks 300 taxi drivers in one go. If people are released, whether they are V&D or Blokker people, how do they get them on time, because they are re-educated, re-educated or re-educated so that they can get into another job, another job as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u27	I have already spoken about the importance of this to Mrs Van Brenk. This is also supported by Mr Amhaouch. I think it is of the utmost importance that you first have an appetite for the labour market through economic growth, but at the same time you also have to see who is not in it. You have to recognise that this is often because people at some point have too little to offer in terms of labour market demand. Those people are gonna have to retrain and train themselves. They will also have to be enabled to do so. This requires the commitment of the people themselves, of the employers and of the government. That commitment absolutely must be made, and that is what is happening. That is what we do in the Netherlands. The latest figures I've seen from the people who got fired from V&D are back from the last quarter of 2016, I think. It shows that 80% of these people are back at work. But the older you are, the harder your position on the labour market is. The same goes for the people who were fired from V&D. In particular, we must look at those who have been out of school a little longer and have been doing their job in one profession for a long time. At some point, these people are vulnerable because they haven't grown along. They do not have what is required in the changing labour market. This requires not only a general plan, as Mrs Van Brenk says, but also individual attention. Fortunately, we have given them in this cabinet period. This will have to be the case again in a subsequent cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u28	I think we speak the same language. The Minister recognizes the problem. But then he falls back in this period. Okay, it's the employer's job and the employee's own responsibility. That's right. There's a point. But we must bring urgency to this rapidly changing economic development. The government has to take part in that. That is why our request in the human capital agenda is: what can we do? The answer should not be alone: leave it to a new cabinet. I think that we can already think about what else to do with the social partners, education and business. I am convinced that by the end of the year the alarm bells will start to ring even louder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u29	The alarm bells are getting louder because of the tension on the labour market. Mr Amhaouch himself indicated that there is tension for technicians. I would like to add that this is particularly the case for ICT technicians. We do have huge deficits in this respect. That is why we started the Technics Pact at the beginning of the current cabinet period. Social Affairs and Employment, OCW and Economic Affairs are working with business and trade unions to ensure that we make improvements in this area. At the same time, we are working on a digital agenda. We see what's happening digitally. We also see that the Netherlands is one of the most promising countries in the world in terms of digital developments. We have a great digital infrastructure. For example, our mobile networks are number two or one of the world. Most of the Internet cables from America come ashore in the Netherlands. The hub in Amsterdam is the largest in the world. So we have a very good digital infrastructure. You can also see this by the fact that almost all people, from young to old, use the possibilities on the Internet. We will therefore have to ensure that we are able to meet the demand for ICT technicians and more generally for technicians because of the digital infrastructure. This was an important point for this whole cabinet period, and I believe that this will be the case again in the next cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u30	I have a bit of a problem with the words the Minister keeps choosing. He talks about the stress of the labour market. I think the people who are now losing their jobs at Blokker, and those who did that before at V&D, don't feel that way at all. The older workers, in particular, who have nowhere to go, do not have much use for these fine words about an overstretched labour market and that they find a place somewhere. What is the impact of the measures taken by the cabinet itself, such as the retail support point? How many people, especially the elderly, have been helped?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u31	I started by pointing out that employment is growing faster than it has grown in 10 years, that unemployment has fallen faster than it has fallen in 10 years, and that, despite being difficult, the number of jobs in the retail sector is growing overall. This is partly the result of what the cabinet does. First of all, it is the result of what the entrepreneurs in the Netherlands do, who see and take opportunities and who know how to dispose of their products abroad, but the cabinet helps to create the conditions for doing so. At the beginning of the cabinet period we had economic contraction, but because of the combination of everything I mentioned, at the end of the cabinet period we have a higher growth than all surrounding countries. That is the result of government policy. I am talking about tension in the labour market, but I am talking in particular about technicians and ICTs. Mr Hijink will, I think, have been regularly with companies and will continue to do so in the coming period. Each company he visits indicates that he has shortages of technicians, which therefore often make companies come from abroad. Fortunately, it is becoming less, but we want to get the people who are still on the sidelines in the Netherlands ready somehow for this kind of job, the jobs that are currently in demand. We see a very strong demand and shortage of supply in ICT and technology. That's the tension I was talking about. That tension is also an opportunity for a lot of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u32	The minister looks at it almost statistically: the labour market looks like this and everything and there is tension on it. But very specific: someone who has worked at Blokker or V&D for 20 years obviously has nothing to do with tension in the labour market for jobs in technology. If you've worked at V&D or Blokker for 20 years, you're looking for a job within your own sector, a job that suits you. That's not the Minister's answer. It remains very macro: the labour market is attracting. He mentioned that 80% of V&D employees are back at work, but it is the older people who often get into trouble just before their retirement. What solutions does the Cabinet have for these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u33	There you see what I said at the beginning towards Mrs Van Brenk, namely that it is no longer the case that once you have had a job and that job is over, you can look around you and you can say to the government: make sure I get exactly the same job back. That's not how the world works. You need to be aware of the changes that are taking place. You must also make efforts to ensure that you do the best you can within your own capabilities to remain interesting for that changing labour market. Employers and the public authorities must help in this. That also happens on a large scale. You cited the example of someone who lost his or her job in the retail sector. In this sector, there is overall growth. So it is not the case that we lose jobs on balance in this sector. No, there's growth in that sector. Only, you have to make sure you stay attractive. You have that obligation individually. Collectively, there is an obligation for employers and government to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u34	It still doesn't answer the question. This is about the people who are now working in retail and who have a whole future ahead of them, but not about the people who are already fired or who are now over 50 years old and who are losing their jobs at Blokker, because they have nothing to gain from now on that people are going to learn for a lifetime and so on. It doesn't help those people anymore, because it doesn't suit them. If you're 55 years old now, you can't go to school very quickly and dive into technology. Of course, that's not how the world works. The Minister himself knows that. So the question is what can the Minister mean for these people who are really in danger of getting into trouble, who are going to have to eat their homes and who are going to apply stupidly but are not going to get to work. I can't get a concrete answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u35	Mr Hijink has already answered it a few times, but apparently that is not the answer he wants to hear, because it is a positive answer. The answer is that employment is growing rapidly and unemployment is falling rapidly. Even in retail, employment is rising. You can see that tension in the labour market is already emerging. You can also see that the Blokker company does not have bankruptcy or anything similar, but that the company takes responsibility and is also working again to support and help the staff that is redundant to get a job. You can see that this worked out well at V&D. I just mentioned the percentage of 80. You can see that within the Retail Agenda, we have set up a separate pathway with the retail sector to ensure that staff are helped to remain attractive in the labour market. My colleague from Social Affairs and Employment, with his sector plans for which 600 million was available, has undertaken activities in every sector to help people maintain and increase their value in the labour market and to work with other employers or other sectors. That's all that's happening. Those are the answers I gave you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u36	I am sure that the Minister will not mean it, but his words sometimes come across as one-sided laying down the responsibility of the workers. As my colleagues have said, the Minister points to macroeconomic trends, digitalisation and that sort of thing. It may continue to be repeated, but today we are talking specifically about the mass redundancies at Blokker. I and, in my view, the Blokker workers would appreciate it if the Minister also spoke a little more to Blokker's management when it comes to responsibilities. Is it the fault of the employees that Blokker's management has not been able to keep up with it in time for digitisation? Is it their fault that Blokker's management is in debt for EUR 180 million, of which EUR 100 million in clean-up costs? The questions that have been asked here today are specifically about what the parts of the Retail Agenda have meant and can mean to the people who it is and what else the Cabinet intends to do on this point. I understand that as a cabinet you cannot do everything on such a subject, but I would like to encourage the Minister to support the workers. Now it sounds like the Minister says: it's especially your fault that you haven't been able to keep up. And I don't think it's fair to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u37	It does not seem fair to me how Mr Özdil is doing at the moment. I haven't mentioned it once, but three times about the individual responsibility of people. I have said every time that there is also a responsibility for employers to support them and a responsibility for the government to help and ensure that the necessary facilities are available. However, you cannot do it without the commitment of the people. It is therefore the individual responsibility of the workers to learn for a lifetime. It is the responsibility of employers to offer and encourage opportunities for this. It is the responsibility of the government to offer together with the employers the facilities needed for this. Mr Özdil mentioned 180 million debts. The company Blokker, the holding company, suffered more than 50 million losses in 2015. In 2016 more than 180 million losses were made. 100 million of these were caused by restructuring costs. That leaves us with 80 million losses. That is a serious situation. That is why it is a good thing that the company simply takes its own responsibility, as Mr Ziengs said. The company's cleaning up. There are 200 shops closed, but the franchise branch of Marskramer stands, with the supplying distribution centre. Also 400 shops of Blokker themselves stand, plus a distribution center. Blokker's management aims to make these shops profitable again, to maintain employment and to be able to make money with them. For the formulas that are rejected, one is looking for buyers. The aim is to maintain employment as much as possible. So I do not need to criticise Blokker's management at all. I think that it itself knows very well what has gone wrong in recent times, as shown by its own figures, and that it is right now to take measures to be stronger in the future. The 400 stores are connected to online activities. I have already indicated that there has been an increase of over 16% in the first quarter of this year, especially in shops with a combination of online and physical services. So I think this is another good choice from Blokker's management. I have just indicated what is available in different ways and from different angles to support for the people who are being dismissed. I think it would be a good idea to go back to the Retail Agenda. The spokesmen also addressed this issue. At the beginning of this cabinet period I realized very well that there were major changes in retail. I have also fully realised that these changes risk reducing the attractiveness of the shopping malls and continuing the spiral downhill. That is why I sought cooperation with the provinces, the municipalities, the shopkeepers and the owners of real estate. We have made agreements with each other about how we can work together and how we can strengthen each other's activities. We've made retail deals with municipalities. A lot of municipalities already do that. More and more municipalities are involved. All provinces participate, also with the ambition to take even more direction in the future. I'm very happy about that. In the Retail Agenda we made 21 concrete agreements. Those appointments are being continued at the moment. I've already briefed the Chamber on that a few times. I will also inform the Chamber, as I promised, of the progress of the Retail Agenda before the summer. So that's gonna have to get to the Chamber before the recess. Last year I was working once again on stepping up the Retail Agenda. At the moment, I am looking at what more we can do to achieve further improvements in retail, based on the current situation. In any case, we have already achieved in the retail sector that, where there was first a trend down, there is again a trend upwards. In a number of cases, the empty position is declining. I'm gonna look up the numbers so I can share them with the room. From my mind, there was an empty position in the order of 7.5% of the store file. That's been reduced by a full percent. That is a great improvement, which we welcome. In the larger cities in particular, there is considerable growth, while in the smaller cities there is still a contraction. This means that it is very important for those smaller towns and villages in particular that the municipalities under which they are covered are involved intensively in the improvements to the Retail Agenda. Luckily, they do. I am talking to the VNG, to IPO, to the property owners and to the shopkeepers about how we can continue this in the coming years. My intention is to continue the Retail Agenda, which would run until this year. But it is not for me to decide; that is up to my successor. However, I will return to the Chamber before the summer to provide further information. One of the activities within the Retail Agenda is the so-called career support. A number of spokesmen have already spoken about this. A private mobility programme has been set up within the retail trade. It's called Career Support Retail. It was intended to reach 3,000 people, who could then find a new job thanks to the support they received. I can tell you that it has already reached 7,700 people at the moment. Thanks to this route, they are now working elsewhere. So that has been a very successful part of the Retail Agenda, which also gives courage to continue on that path. Both from this case Blokker's leadership and from the UWV, the sector plans and the Retail Agenda/Career Support Retail activities are being undertaken to achieve what Mr Gijs van Dijk and other spokesmen have just advocated. I come to the supplementary questions put by the spokesmen. But before I do, I'm gonna go back to the numbers on the vacant position. I said it was 7.5% and an improvement of 1%. I see now that, to be precise, we first had an empty position in square meters of 8.4%, but it has now fallen again to 7.7%. Last year, 7.4% of the buildings were empty. That's 7.1% now. There is therefore an improvement in this regard. In almost all provinces the empty position is declining. It is nice to see that this is the case most often in the provinces of Groningen and Friesland. Mr Gijs van Dijk spoke about the digital revolution. I've already gone into that when I talked about the shift in retail sales towards online shopping. But there is, of course, much more going on in the digital field. Major changes are taking place in the banking world and in the insurance world. But a lot also happens in industry. In particular, industrial production is increasingly linked to the Internet, which means that the customer is increasingly directing the production units to the manufacturers and can therefore also be delivered to the customer very quickly. So much is going on in the area of digitalisation. As I said, the Netherlands has an excellent infrastructure and a very good starting position. The government strongly supports digitisation, particularly in industry. We have a total of 39 Fieldlabs in the Netherlands. These are opportunities where industry entrepreneurs work together and with knowledge institutions to bring about digital developments that they alone would not be able to do. Thanks to that partnership, they can do it. That is our so-called Smart Industry project. But we're also working on blockchain applications. The aim is to develop them more quickly in the Netherlands than in other countries, so that we can also exploit the opportunities created by them. We are very broad in the Netherlands to ensure that we keep our digital infrastructure in order and that we adapt our labour market towards that digital market. I have already said a lot about this. You can see there's been a big change in the economy because of this digitalization. We are working intensively on this both at European and at national level. I think Mr Gijs van Dijk wants us to do the same. I have already talked to him about the prospects for the retail trade. There are major changes in digitalisation in several sectors. I have already mentioned industry, but it is also about banks and insurance, for example. On the whole, you can see that there are major changes, but on balance you can see every time that the Dutch economy is so competitive and that the Dutch business community is so innovative that they are able to create opportunities and return to growth. A good example is the factory in Born, where 1,000 robots have been planted and the number of jobs has risen from 1,200 to 4,800. If you do it the right way, you can achieve a lot there. That's what I see all over the country. The pinnacle of digitalization is the machines of ASML. I was in China last week and they all know the machines of ASML there. They also say: can't you ask ASML to set up such a factory with us? Then I explain to them that this is not possible, because ASML is the core of a network of 160 Dutch companies that are all suppliers. We really cannot transfer 160 Dutch companies to China, even if we wanted to, which is absolutely not the case. The Netherlands therefore also plays an important role in the top of digitalisation. I think that the government is very active there and that it supports business to ensure, first and foremost, that the digital infrastructure is there. Secondly, companies are supported in a variety of ways to tackle the opportunities that arise, even in the case of smaller companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u38	I agree with what the Minister says about what's going on. The Action Agenda Smart Industry also shows that the Netherlands is at the forefront. That's beautiful. This also offers us an incredible deal, including the growth of a whole new economy. That's good for the Netherlands. But I would also like to come back to this point on the people's side. For example, the Minister mentioned the banking sector. There we see a lot of people who lose their jobs from administrative positions. We've actually seen that coming for years. The computers are taking over. So there's no work like that anymore. That is not bad at all, but for these people at the moment, because we are seeing some kind of mismatch. We see a lot of new, innovative companies and we see a lot of new products being developed in the Netherlands, but the traditional middle groups, as I call it, are very difficult to do so. They haven't had the education in the past so they can just walk into such a fantastic IT company and offer themselves. That's why they're falling a little between shore and ship. That is what we see happening in the banking sector. I also blame the social partners for putting this forward for far too long and for not investing prematurely in training and so on. But what about the people who are at risk of falling between ship and ship? Is there a role for the government in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u39	Yes. I would point out the amount earmarked for this at the beginning of this cabinet period. I remember very well that there was a need to cut back everywhere because there was a huge deficit in the budget, with growing unemployment, declining employment and high public debt. That is why the ministries had to be cut everywhere, but an additional 600 million went to SZW for sector plans to help the people in the sectors where developments are taking place, as Mr Van Dijk outlined, to get back on track. Are we doing enough in that respect? I don't think so. As Mrs Van Brenk said, structural attention is needed for lifelong learning. Mr Özdil doesn't like to hear it, but I'll say it again: if you work at a bank or an insurer and you see that things are changing there, start to ensure that you retain your value in that changing labour market as an individual! Look where possibilities do occur, focus on them and make use of the possibilities that exist. These opportunities must be offered by individual employers, organised employers, cooperating employers and our education system. OCW participates, SZW participates and EZ also wants to participate. I think we have done a great deal about this in this cabinet period, with the Technics Pact, with the Digital Agenda, with the human capital agendas of the top sectors and with the sector plans. I also refer to the 170 million extra that went to the UWV to give personal attention to people. We have done a lot about this, but the problem Mr Van Dijk is still there. This means that this will probably be an important point of attention again in a new cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u40	It is also something to look for, because it is always difficult to look into the future and to know exactly what to expect. Still, I think it's wise, given the speed. I think the Minister agrees with that. What lessons can we learn from this already? We must respond to the changes that have an impact on employment for people who are not really ready for that new era. What lessons can we learn, for example, from what has happened in the banking sector and from what we see happening in parts of the retail sector? What were we supposed to do better? And how could the government have responded better to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u41	You see a permanent understatement of the importance of technology. Too many people, both in the educational world and among the people who went to school and their parents, have realized how many opportunities are emerging in technology. At the moment you can see a growing sense of technique, starting with university education, then with HBO, now also with MBO and VMBO. This is because we have drawn companies to the training institutes so that they can show what they are doing. They can work together with the students and they can make the students internships so that they can hire them after their training. We are currently working on something we should have done before, namely to ensure that we achieve much more feeling, love and interest in technology in a larger part of the labour market. We must now, in particular, ensure that many more people are involved in ICT. We are currently short 70,000 people in ICT. It is extremely unfortunate that we cannot deliver those people, because those 70,000 jobs are not being used. Moreover, these people, when there are, carry out all kinds of activities that create even more jobs. These jobs are not getting off the ground enough. A company that can attract those ICTs can also create more jobs. I therefore call for much more attention to be paid to technology and ICT. In my view, this has provided a response to the points raised by Mr Van Dijk. Mr Özdil asked for particular attention to be paid to individual workers. He is right to ask for this, but attention to individual workers is, of course, primarily the responsibility of the company itself. The company has hired people and at some point people need to be fired. Then there is the responsibility of the employer to do whatever is necessary. I note that Blokker is doing so, that agreement has been reached on a social plan and that it is also being applied. I also note that in selling the daughters, Blokker pays attention to employment in a way that a good employer should have. I have already told Mr Özdil that we have already done a great deal to support this issue within the Retail Agenda, and that developments in retail are positive at the moment. As far as career support is concerned, I have said that we have focused on 3,000 people and we have reached 7,700. Mr Özdil also asked how I know that no jobs are lost in the sale of parts of the Blokker group. I don't know. All I know is that this depends on those who are going to buy these formulas and what they're going to do with them. This depends on whether employment is lost or preserved. Or perhaps new jobs will be created. So we'll see. I have already said that at the first sale, by Leen Bakker, no jobs were lost. I have also said what the Blokker social plan looks like and what one is going to do to support the people. Then asked Mr. Amhaouch. He also talked about Leen Bakker. I've already gone into that. The same applies to the empty position. We've been talking about re-training and further training. He also asked for a national human capital agenda. I believe that human capital agendas should be mainly within companies and within sectors. That's exactly what we're doing. There is the human capital agenda as part of the Technics Pact and there is one as part of the retail. In all the top sectors we also have a human capital agenda. I think we should do this by sector and by sector. For a human capital agenda for the country as a whole, I think two things are most important. First of all, there must be economic growth, which creates jobs. Secondly, we must ensure that the question of the labour market can be answered. Public authorities must create conditions for people with good knowledge and skills to become available on the labour market. We must therefore ensure that people do not have to stand aside when there are a lot of vacancies coming and there are already a lot of vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u42	Half an hour ago, I complimented the Minister. I said we spoke the same language. But now there's some light coming in. The Minister says that we need to settle a human capital agenda by sector. The CDA believes that, of course, there should be a basis for each sector. We understand that. But there are major changes. The three largest banks in the Netherlands have fired 10,000 people in recent years. Now we are again talking about redundancies in the retail trade. The CDA therefore believes that this should also be addressed intersectorally. I believe that an intersectoral human capital agenda is needed in the coming years or decades. What are we going to do with the young people who start going to primary school, high school and college? What do we do with the side flow? We should think about that. There are initiatives, for example in North Holland. And there are indeed sector plans in the provinces. We will have to think about how to create an intersectoral human capital agenda. The Minister spoke just now about technical innovations and mentioned all kinds of companies that are doing very well. When we have the people, the technology itself also becomes innovative. However, if we do not have the people, there will be no energy transition and there will be no new innovation. That is why I think we need to look very critically at how we can create an intersectoral human capital agenda. In doing so, we ask the Minister for help. We already have the base. What do we have to do to make the future proof?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u43	That was two interruptions in one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u44	I do not want to try to make Mr Amhaouch's priorities and accents entirely mine. I believe that Mr Amhaouch and his group are now back in the picture of the cabinet formation and are given the opportunity to contribute to shaping the policy of the next cabinet. We'll see what comes out of it. For my part, I can say that the Technics Pact is actually one major human capital agenda, in which OCW, SZW and Economic Affairs have worked with the educational field and the companies to ensure that for the companies that made people available to whom the companies need. We're working on our own digital agenda. We have our Retail Agenda. We have made our sector plans within the sectors. Over the past period, the cabinet has been working in such a way that it has strongly supported economic growth from the business community, that it has initiated changes in the labour market and that it has created the situation in which jobs are growing and unemployment is falling. I think that is a very good starting point for the new cabinet and for new accents. In any case, I say to Mr Amhaouch, the starting position is much better than it was at the beginning of the current cabinet period. I would like my successors to be able to build on that, because there are a lot of things to do, as the spokesmen have said today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u45	Mr Amhaouch, your introduction was quite long. So I suggest that you ask a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u46	Very briefly. I know this minister as a very passionate minister. He now refers a lot to the new cabinet. Hopefully there will be a new cabinet, which the CDA may be allowed to participate in, and perhaps also the VVD. We are asking the Minister for as long as he is still there, even though he is outgoing, not great things, but we are asking him to see if we can resolve a number of issues that stand in the way of getting intersectoral people who do not have a job or threaten to have a job back in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u47	I'd be happy to say so. We will have to look at how, in the remainder of this cabinet period, we can keep the things that we have started going and bring them to a successful conclusion. We must also continue to work on a good basis for the next cabinet. What will help is that the Court is selective in dealing with controversial explanations of subjects. At the moment when the Chamber declares something controversial, it is completely silent in the ministries. So I advise the Chamber to handle it very carefully. Mr Ziengs praised Blokker and gave a general approach to what is going on in the company and in this part of the economy. I can make his words all the way to mine. I agree with the way he approaches it. I very much appreciate what has been built up at Blokker over a period of 120, 125 years. They are very good entrepreneurs, who have really done it. Then the company got into trouble, as other companies got into trouble, but the company wants to intervene in time. It is working on this at the moment and rightly also pays attention to the personal interests, in my opinion in a good way. The company is now committed to being ready for the future and keeping a lot of people working and making money with the Blockers and the franchise stores of Marskramer. I think that's the way it should be. Mr Ziengs also gave his analysis that the retail business is improving again. I have supported with information that this is indeed the case and that this offers new prospects for the workers in this sector. It is very nice that we can see together that despite all the problems in retail, employment growth is expected this year and next year. I went into detail about what Mrs Van Brenn said about lifelong learning. It is true that the group that is struggling in the labour market is particularly concerned with the elderly. There's nothing to argue with. I say to Mrs Van Brenk that it is also because that generation, my generation, has not sufficiently realised that in what we were used to and with which we could earn our living with hard work, there were changes that we should have been responding to. One is never too old for it; Mrs Van Brenk is from 50PLUS. If you're 50-plus, you can still work 17, 18 years. This requires an individual commitment to discover how to retain your value in this changing society, with the support of employers and government. Mrs Van Brenk also spoke about the principle of reflection. The agreements and rules that have been made to this end are being respected. I do not think it is necessary at the moment to do anything new in this area, not even in the case of Blokker which we are discussing today. I have already mentioned the general picture with regard to the V&D employees. Within this general picture, however, Mrs Van Brenn is right to say that older workers have the greatest difficulty in finding new jobs. Mr Graus spoke about unfair competition in the EU. Other countries say the same thing, but when they look at the Netherlands, they see that the Netherlands is Europe's most competitive economy. The Netherlands has a higher growth rate than the euro area. The Netherlands also has more growth than Great Britain, France, Belgium and Germany. They see that the Netherlands sells 80% of its exports in Europe, that the Netherlands is the fifth exporter of goods worldwide, that we have the largest port in Europe here and that Schiphol is the third and perhaps soon the second airport in Europe. So we are very strong in this competition in Europe. Mr Graus says that I deny the problems of franchises. I'm denying that I've denied the franchise problems. I have realized what the franchise problems were and have been working on them intensively for years. As a result, representatives of the franchisees and the franchisees have jointly made a code for this. I am now giving a legal follow-up to that. So I was convinced that there was a need to improve in the franchise sector, and I have worked hard on that. I do not deny that parking charges are high, which Mr Graus points out as a problem. It is true that the land is expensive in the inner cities. That means that if you want to go there with your car, you have to invest in it. Those investments need to be recouped. That's mostly municipal policy. Municipalities decide what can be done there and how to arrange it. It is not for me to tell you nationwide that you have to be able to park for €1 per hour in Amsterdam. I can't do that. Mr Graus also stated that precario rights were used by municipalities to close budget gaps. Municipalities have a number of resources at their disposal to obtain income in addition to the benefit they receive from the Municipal Fund. Those funds include dog tax, property tax and precario duties. In what way municipalities use them, they have to know for themselves. In it they are controlled by the parliaments of the municipalities, which are the municipal councils. That's where they have to answer for themselves. Finally, Mr Graus said that a bottlenecks plan should be drawn up for the retail trade, together with the VNG. I had the same conviction. That is why we are setting up the Retail Agenda, not only with the VNG, but also with the IPO, the real estate sector and the retail sector, the shopkeepers themselves. I think that the Retail Agenda is the plan that Mr Graus referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u48	That's a lot of points I have to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u49	You can do it very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u50	Yeah, I'm gonna do it real quick. As far as franchisees are concerned, I once said at a committee meeting that they are bound by stranglehold contracts. Then it was said that it wasn't. Afterwards, I asked for legislation myself. That too would not be necessary, because it was considered that they should take care of all this themselves. That's all there is to it. I am grateful to the Minister for that, but I am the one who once put it here. The same applies to the problem of late payments by public authorities. That was not recognised at first either. Those are some of the things I once put on the agenda. I would like to point out that this, too, is a possible point which is immediately justified. That was the plan. I didn't mean to challenge the minister. For the rest, I've only asked for a test. With regard to parking rates, the Minister may say that he does not go downtown, but I simply said that the Minister and the Association of Dutch Municipalities have an influence on municipal charges. If you did a test at €1 per hour, maybe a lot more people will go downtown, so there will be much less emptying. Retailer The Netherlands once indicated, in my opinion, two or three years ago, that the high parking rates contribute to vacancy. That's the point. Finally, there is an adopted motion which states that taxes must be levied for the purpose for which they are levied. The Chamber just agreed with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u51	In general terms, I say to Mr Graus: if there is a problem in society, if it is discussed in society, if that problem is also brought to the cabinet and the Chamber, if it is then discussed in the Chamber with the person responsible, if the matters that need to be addressed and if he is one of those who respond and also contribute to it, then he has the idea that all of these are his initiatives which are denied by the rest and which the rest of them subsequently follow. That's not true. Mr Graus and other spokesmen here in the Chamber are taking note of developments. I do that myself, and so do my associates. Together, we are trying to tackle the issues that need to be addressed and brought to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u52	Was this the answer to the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u53	This was the answer to the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u54	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u55	In another debate, I read out the Acts from an AO, in which the minister himself said that the municipalities are correct payers. It didn't turn out to be. As far as franchisees are concerned, I have put them on the agenda. In fact, no one has ever supported my motion. I asked years ago for legislation to get franchisees out of choke contracts. That wasn't supported by anyone. The Acts of a Member of Parliament are fixed. In a previous plenary debate, I read out Acts from an AO. No one supported me then, no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u56	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u57	The Minister may say no, but I did put this on the agenda. I'm the one who got the franchise numbers...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u58	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u59	Those are the facts. Otherwise, the Minister does not know the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u60	The Minister's gonna respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u61	It is not the case that Mr Graus has put the problem of franchises on the agenda. This problem took place in the sector and was recognized by the spokesmen and also by the cabinet. We then adopted an approach to this. This approach has been successful, as it has produced results from franchisees and franchisees after years of hard work. I had already said in advance that I would also legally anchor that. That's what I'm working on right now. At some point in that process, Mr Graus may table a motion, but that does not mean that others have not seen it, that the cabinet was not working on it and that there is no interaction between the cabinet and the Chamber, of which Mr Graus is also a member. That's the way it's supposed to be. I welcome the role played by Mr Graus in this regard in general terms. As far as the municipalities as payers are concerned, I was able to deal with the problem with the government myself, and that has happened. We're all over 95% with quick payment. The provinces are fine, too. The municipalities are not doing well on parts. I've made that clear. This simply means: indicate where things are not going well per municipality and thus enable the municipal councils to ensure that they address their daily administration, the college of B and W. The biggest problem with payments is not with governments either. The problem lies mainly with companies themselves. That is why the Chamber has discussed this very intensively. The Chamber has already dealt with an own-initiative proposal. It has been said that if small businesses deliver to large companies, they will not be allowed to impose a longer payment period than 60 days. Those are all things that we're dealing with here in the Chamber. Mr Graus is one of them, but he is not the one who always sees the problems first and first. We're dealing with these things together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u62	Finally, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u63	I have to be able to respond to this. I didn't say that. I have said that there are two points I have ever raised in the Chamber and that at that time no one supported me; no Member of Parliament nor the Minister. The point was that the franchisees were tied to choking contracts and were in trouble. It was only after that that hearings and all sorts of motions arose. I have already tabled motions for legislation, after which the Minister said to me: I am not going to legislate at all; I am not going to do that; they have to deal with this themselves. That is all literally said; it is stated in the Acts. I put that in once. No one had ever done that before. I checked with the CIP; no one's ever brought that in. So those are just points that I did bring in as the first Member of Parliament. There will be more people in the Netherlands, but the late payments by municipalities and the franchisees who were in trouble have been brought in by the member Graus of the PVV. The Minister can consult the CIP on this, because that is the case. Those are the facts, Madam President. The sad thing is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u64	Mr Graus, you are making very broad use of the interruption. You've made your point. You differ on the conclusions of your input on this point, but your point is clear. It's in the Acts. The Minister's point is also clear. I therefore propose that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u65	Sure. I agree with you, but I only mentioned it as an example. Now this is being enlarged again, while I only mentioned it as an example in a sub-section of my speech. It's just the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u66	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u67	In every speech made by Mr Graus, he says that he was the first to see it, that he was the first to see it, and that he first made a motion. He doesn't say that this once; it's said every time. I will say something about that now, but I will not continue to do so, because it makes me a little faint, I must tell you. As far as the franchise is concerned, we can see that a problem has grown over the years, that it has been addressed in this cabinet period and that we have ensured that a code has been jointly created by the franchisees and the franchisees, which, as I have announced at an early stage, will now also be legally anchored. This problem has therefore been addressed and brought to a solution in this cabinet period. I have also taken the necessary steps to ensure that improvements in payments are made in business. The Chamber has taken the initiative to pursue this further. With my support, a separate group has been created, in which large companies give an example to show that as a large company you can pay within 30 days and thus play a major role towards your small suppliers. I have also made sure that payments by the government are in order and that the way things are going with the municipal authorities has been made transparent, so that the municipal councils are able to do what they should do on that point. Mr Hijink has raised a number of points which I have already been able to address, both in a general sense and in response to his interruption. He wondered if I had talked to Asscher about this problem. I speak to Asscher every week, but much more important is the intensive cooperation between the two ministries, or rather three ministries: Social Affairs, OCW and Economic Affairs. We do this on different fronts and certainly on these fronts. The Chamber could have also invited Minister Asscher today; she would have been given a similar story. The Chamber invited me, for which I am grateful to her, so I was able to do the story on his behalf. I've indicated what's going on with career support in retail. Mr Hijink wondered whether we would keep a finger on the wrist when selling to private equity companies. That's not true. That is the responsibility of business itself. Blokker Holding has decided to sell a number of formulas. So that takes buyers. These are large formulas and there must therefore be large amounts available for them. So it has to be a party that has that money or that can organize that money. There's a equity company, the investment company Gilde, that owned Quantum and now bought Leen Bakker. It may also be that other similar companies are going to buy other shopping formulas. That's a business of the buyer and the seller, where I don't keep my finger on the wrist. This responsibility lies with the selling and purchasing agencies. In the voids in the inner cities I entered. I have indicated that it is becoming less and that the Retail Agenda is all about strengthening and accelerating that process. I'm here to address the Blokker family. I think that, as a shareholder, the Blokker family has also created the situation that we can now intervene, with a view to offering a new future to the large company that is still left. The family has also ensured that the losses of 2015 and 2016 and the reorganisation costs are borne by the company. So it is not the government that pays those costs; that is what the company itself does, so the shareholders. I think more generally that the owners of Blokker are well aware of their responsibility. They have meant a lot of good for Dutch society and can also do so in the future. It is also very good that at the moment, when solving the problems, they give the human rights issues the attention that Blokker's staff deserve. Mr President, those were my reactions to the introduction of the spokesmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u68	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first-term response by the cabinet. There is a need for a second deadline, but only for a number of spokesmen. Mr Gijs van Dijk waives his second term. Mr Özdil too. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA Group. Speaking time is one minute per spokesperson, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u69	Mr. Chairman. We'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are many redundancies in a number of sectors, partly due to changing market developments and increasing digitalisation;]] [[noting that there are also sectors where there is a serious shortage of qualified staff;]] [[Whereas intersectoral retraining, retraining and further training is important for both employees and employers, so that sufficient qualified staff is made available for sectors that are in demand and also avoid unnecessary unemployment;]] [[calls on the Government, together with industry, the social partners and education, to draw up a human capital agenda under the Retail Agenda in order to better match labour market supply and demand and to respond proactively to economic developments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Graus, Mr Ziegs, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Özdil, Mr Van Brenn and Mr Hijink.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27838-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u70	Mr. Chairman. The minister says that older people are having a hard time getting back to work. In the case of dismissal, we apply a principle of reflection, but we do not assume that. That is why we consider it important to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas older workers, whether or not they become redundant after bankruptcy, have a relatively vulnerable position in the labour market;]] [[expresses the wish that the present and future Cabinet should examine how to promote the principle of reflection as far as possible in the case of reorganisation processes, and in particular in the case of business start-ups;]] [[invites the Government to report the results of this investigation to the Chamber within six months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27838-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u71	Madam President. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide an early progress report with concrete measures and results on the fight against vacancy and loss of vacant position in consultation with VNG and Retailer Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to improve the business environment for the retail sector by evaluating charges and charges for efficiency and effectiveness, in cooperation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with industry organisations, to establish a future-proof and competitive roadmap to improve the business environment and playing field where possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27838-20]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27838-21]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27838-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u72	In short, I appreciate the Minister very much. On all the points we have discussed this evening, he has done a great deal. I'll give him credit for that. I have once referred to him as one of the best ministers ever, and I will stick to that, especially as a human being. I like him very much as a human being. But the Acts are just stuck. He can check it out at the CIP, the Central Information Point, to see that I'm actually right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u73	Mr Hijink waived his second-term speaking time. Mr Ziengs still needed a second deadline, but had not yet had his motion ready. I assume that the Chamber will have no objection to Mr Ziesgs still submitting it; within one minute, that will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u74	Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, the motion has been printed out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the budget has been made available to accompany workers from the retail trade from work to work;]] [[whereas it is now unclear whether these funds will be useful;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the effectiveness of the mobility centres and to include issues such as the number of workers achieved and the number of workers actually accompanied from work to work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ziengs and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27838-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u75	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. We'll wait until the Minister has been able to assess all the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u76	Let me see if the spokesmen are ready for the exciting judgment that the Minister will make on the motions. Among other things, we are missing Mr Ziengs. I give the floor to the Minister and the spokesmen will undoubtedly come running to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Amhaouch's motion on item No. 18 was co-signed by a number of other spokesmen. It calls on the government to draw up a human capital agenda. Contrary to what I initially understood from Mr Amhaouch, this was not a human capital agenda for the Dutch economy as a whole. He sees this as part of the Retail Agenda. I think it is useful to do what Mr Amhaouch and the co-signatories put forward in his motion, so I leave the verdict on this first motion to the Chamber. In Mrs Van Brenn's motion to item No. 19 states that the principle of reflection should be applied as far as possible in the case of reorganisation processes and, in particular, in the case of business start-ups. At present, it is already regulated by law that the principle of reflection applies in the case of regular reorganisations. That is what we have already recorded. This was also strongly encouraged by the trade union movement. I know very well that Mrs Van Brenn has played a part in this. The situation in the event of bankruptcy is legally different. It's not that easy to arrange it there. That is why there is now a legislative process going on at Security and Justice to see what is possible there and how to do what is needed. I would therefore like to say to Mrs Van Brenk: hold that motion until we know what is coming out of the legislative process of Security and Justice. If Mrs Van Brenk were to put the motion to the vote at the moment, I would not recommend it to the Chamber. But perhaps Mrs Van Brenn will decide to hold this motion. In the Graus motion to item No. 20 calls for an early progress report on the fight against emptying and the reduction of vacancy, in consultation with VNG and Retailers Netherlands. It's part of the Retail Agenda, which we're working on. I have already mentioned the results and I have said that we will be presenting our progress report before the recess. So we are already serving Mr Graus with that. So this motion doesn't add anything, and that's why I'm betraying her. In the motion in part No. 21 Mr Graus, together with Mr Amhouch, asked to improve the business environment for the retail sector by evaluating the charges and charges for efficiency and effectiveness. This really is something that the municipalities, and perhaps the Minister of State, should do. I think that a different connection should be sought to discuss this with my colleague from BZK than this meeting of the Chamber with the Minister for Economic Affairs, following the resignation at Blokker. If this motion is put forward at the moment, then I can only advise her against it. I believe that this issue deserves a different treatment before a ruling can be made on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u78	The whole debate is misaddressed. It should have been with the Minister of Social Affairs. Now we are having the debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs, who also deals with the business environment and the retail trade. That's well-addressed. I'm asking the government, too. It is logical that this Minister should possibly do so in consultation with the Minister for the Interior. However, we are now having this debate with the Minister for Economic Affairs on the business environment and retail trade. He's the shepherd of those sheep. So this is like one of the few well-reached things of the evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u79	That is the analysis of this debate by Mr Graus. I disagree. I think the business environment is very good for retailing in the Netherlands. If you compare the Dutch retail situation with that in other countries, you can see that it is significantly better here. Our shopping centres and city centres are on average more attractive than those in other countries. As I have already said, our general policy is to ensure that the Netherlands is the most competitive economy. The specific issues in the retail sector are addressed jointly. That's already led to a change of scenery. Things are moving in the right direction now. Employment is even rising. So I do not think there is any reason at all to improve the business environment by assessing the effectiveness and effectiveness of municipal charges and charges. It is also a question of what opportunities municipalities have to acquire income. What are the relationships between the different sources, the Municipal Fund and the different taxes and taxes that municipalities can impose? You really need a lot more to draw good conclusions on this than this debate, which is about the redundancies at Blokker. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u80	Mr Graus, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u81	I can respond to that a second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u82	That has certainly not been said, but let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u83	This is exactly what I've been talking about all night, this discussion I'm having with the minister. I once said that the franchisees were in trouble. It turned out to be. I said the congregations weren't such good payers at all. It turned out to be the same after that. Now I'm predicting it again. I said it during my input. Retailers The Netherlands has indicated that this needs to be better evaluated, that charges are often ineffective and effective and that they hinder entrepreneurs. I only ask for this to be improved and evaluated in cooperation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u84	The motion is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u85	I have just tried to formulate why I have tabled this motion in part No. 21 detachment. That has led to the conclusion that I reject this motion. In the motion in part No. 22 Mr Graus asked for a "future-proof and competitive roadmap to improve the business environment and playing field where possible." I'm not going to repeat myself, but compare the entrepreneurial climate in the Netherlands with the beginning of this cabinet period, see how successful business is, see what our export position is and what our growth is compared to other countries. Mr Graus thinks he should move to improve the business environment, but I think this is really unnecessary. We are very aware of the importance of entrepreneurs for our prosperity and employment. For this we work intensively and successfully together in all kinds of ways. The motion in part No. 22 I therefore advise against the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u86	Mr Graus, I will give you the floor once. When responding to the cabinet judgment on a motion, you are supposed to ask one question. I suggest you put the only question you get right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u87	I need to be able to respond to any motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u88	Sure, with one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u89	Well, or a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u90	Yeah, or a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u91	I cannot understand why the Minister is constantly saying things that retail entrepreneurs and SMEs do not support at all. That's what I've been saying all night. It is always denied that it is not, but which companies did not go down the drain? I also say in my input that it is, logically, on internet sales and digitalisation, but it is also due to a wrong policy of governments. I didn't just leave it with this minister. That is why I call every time the Association of Dutch Municipalities, because it is certainly also the responsibility of local authorities. The Minister cannot continue to deny what entrepreneurs report to us every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u92	I am glad that entrepreneurs report to Parliament and raise the issues that play. Apart from individual entrepreneurs, I myself also have to deal with organised entrepreneurs. We do this in the context of the sector plans, the Technics Pact and the Smart Industry Fieldlabs we set up. We are also doing this within the framework of the digital agenda, in particular the Technics Pact. We are fully engaged, including the Retail Agenda, in working with organised entrepreneurs. In the case of franchises, we have done so together with retailers and franchisees, in addition to the franchisees. So we are constantly looking for this cooperation, and with success, because I have already mentioned its results. Nor do I think that we can rest on our laurels now and think that we should continue to do so. That is the firm intention of this cabinet during this cabinet period. I think the next cabinet will certainly pay that attention to it. In the motion in part No. 23 Mr Ziegs and Mr Amhaouch, who also signed this motion, say that the effectiveness of the mobility centres must be evaluated. It is true that there is not enough to evaluate, because mobility centres are not always needed. In the case of Blokker, for example, shops are closed all over the country. The general provision we have for this, with what Blokker does himself and what the UWV does, is sufficient to ensure that people individually get the attention they need. The budget of 2 million available for mobility centres in the SZW budget has not yet been exhausted. On the contrary, little use has been made of it. So there is not much to evaluate yet. That is why I propose to Mr Ziegs to hold the motion until more experience has been gained with mobility centres. Once that experience is there, we can release the evaluation. At the moment, there is too little to evaluate. So I'm asking him to hold the motion. If he wouldn't, I'd advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u93	Can the Minister also indicate a time limit for an evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u94	No, because I'd rather not have mobility centres at all. I actually think that the responsibility of the company itself, and otherwise of the UWV, should be sufficient. But in some situations, a company that is very concentrated on a particular region goes bankrupt. For example, something happens in Emmen with Philips, or in Groningen with Aldel. There are situations that are conceivable that it will happen. I will inform the Chamber of what experience there is at present with regard to mobility centres, with regard to expectations for the near future, and with regard to the timing of an evaluation of the phenomenon of mobility centres. I say to Mr Seengs that I will give the House the information this month. The Court can then assess whether that evaluation time, which we will then indicate, is in line with, among other things, Mr Ziegs. I suggest that he at least continue that motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u95	Would Mr Ziengs like to know if he is holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u96	Hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u97	At the request of Mr Ziengs, I propose his motion (27838, No. 23). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-25.u98	I would like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for coming to the Chamber and the spokesmen for their contribution to this debate. The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
