ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue to deal with the budget of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	We still have the answers of the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. That's why he has the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions and their questions. Before I come to the answer, in which I will tell you in what blocks I am going to do that, I would also like to say something about my portfolio and my priorities in a more general sense. Also taking into account the fact that Mr Pechtold asked us in the debate on the declaration of government to do a little more about this. I'll start with the migration and asylum section of my wallet. As far as migration is concerned, I see three main lines. The first is in the domestic domain, namely ensuring a manageable asylum process with a flexible reception model and a smooth handling of applications, so that people can be clear quickly, perhaps even faster than in the past. At the same time, those who are able to stay must get to work more quickly with integration activities. But to those who are not eligible for asylum, we should also try to make it clear more quickly that he or she must leave the Netherlands and return. The latter is also important to maintain support for the reception of people who call on our protection under the Refugee Convention or the ECHR. I attach great importance to that support. The second main line is to achieve harmonisation within the European Union of asylum procedures and reception. One country must not be more flexible or attractive than the other. With more equal procedures and reception facilities in all EU countries, we can effectively combat the phenomenon of asylum shopping, by the way, without having to hit in a race to the bottom. I shall come back to that later in my speech. The third main line is also international, but outside the European Union. Together with the European Union Member States, we want to make good agreements with different countries from which migrants come. Then what are we talking about? For example, on reception in the region and return of displaced asylum seekers. I am not just talking about people who are not entitled to asylum, because there are more people who should return. I am also thinking of removing the root causes of migration, something we have, of course, been doing for decades with development cooperation, even without agreements being concluded. Of course, I realise that negotiations within Europe then also mean that we, as the Netherlands, will not be 100% right in all respects. This makes it all the more important that we see the various proposals as a single package and that we consider how best to achieve the Dutch interest and intentions of the cabinet within it. Because these three main lines are closely linked. If these agreements are implemented internationally, for example, this will lead to a lower, manageable inflow, including the agreement that we will therefore look more specifically at resettlement. All three lines have a high priority for me, but only the first, the domestic shelter, we have a large part in our own hands. Therefore, in cooperation with all chain partners, I will quickly start working on the plans for a flexible asylum system. I'll come back to that later. I realise that migration policy is contained in a lot of detailed rules, but in its assessment it often amounts to human work. However short I am in this position, what I have seen and heard so far strengthens me in my belief that the staff of all the services involved in migration policy implement these rules as carefully as possible. I'd like to have said that here. Mr. Chairman. I would therefore like to answer the questions and respond to the Chamber's contribution. I'd like to do that in the next blocks. I'll start with anything that has to do with international affairs. I am talking about cooperation with other cabinet members, migration agreements, Libya and the proposal for orphanages. Then I come to the European Union, where questions have been asked about the Turkey declaration, about the situation in Greece and about the 1,750 resettlement people. Then there is the national block, which deals with issues such as flexible reception, including the plan submitted by the SP, European regulation headlines, return policy to Afghanistan and Syria, the assessment under Article 1F of Syrians, the assessments of lhbtis and converts, the children's pardon and economic migration. Mr President, after that, I have skipped that in my introduction, but I will come back to my intentions later on, and I will touch on that other subject in my portfolio: trafficking in human beings and prostitution. I'll handle that as the last block. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the international part. First of all, I was asked, among others, by Mr Azmani, but also by Mr Van Dijk, and I think that Mr Bishop also referred to this, how I see not only my role but also cooperation within the cabinet, with other ministers involved. First of all, let me say that we cannot shape migration policy if we do not work together in the broad sense of the cabinet. We are literally seeing this today, where a number of colleagues from the cabinet are present at the summit between the European Union and the African Union. It means close cooperation with colleagues in Foreign Affairs and with foreign trade and development cooperation. But even if people are promising and eventually integrating into the Netherlands, we must ensure that integration takes place faster. Then I come to the cooperation with colleagues in the departments of SZW and OCW, for example. Then you can look at how we are going to make these agreements. Then it will be very clear that matters such as reception in the region, development cooperation and tackling root causes of migration are mainly the responsibility of colleagues at BuHa-OS and Foreign Affairs, the ministers Kaag and Zijlstra. I intend to work intensively with them. Together, we will also look at, for example, the definition of focus countries outside the European Union in the coming period. In doing so, we would like to focus more on the root cause of migration, where we would also like to look more specifically at how we can involve development cooperation issues. A specific aspect of the international part of the portfolio is the intention of the Cabinet to focus on more partnerships and agreements with countries outside the European Union in relation to migration. We currently have one agreement that works, namely the agreement between the European Union and Turkey. I will come back to that later in the European Union block. Of course, there has been a long-standing commitment to broad partnerships with third countries. For example, efforts are being made to improve reception in the region, to remove the root causes of migration and to tackle smuggling and return. We also want to explore the possibility of securing safe reception and protection in the region during this period, if only because it can prevent a risky journey through the desert and overseas and also undermines the business model of ruthless smugglers. Let me be clear, it is important, as stated in the government agreement, that if we come to those agreements, those countries want to cooperate and migrants are safe, that refugees there are not victims of refoulement and therefore we do not send them back to countries of origin where they fear persecution. We must also ensure, if such agreements are to be reached, that refugees can apply to a competent authority. They could be authorities of the country, but also the UNHCR. By the way, we see worldwide that most of the refugees are seeking refuge in the nearby region. It is therefore important to improve the situation in those countries in the region. We do, by the way. With the help and pressure of the European Union, for example, we have opened up the labour market for Syrian refugees in Turkey. More than 1 million refugees in Turkey are also given a monthly credit to provide for their own existence. We also see that more and more stranded migrants return voluntarily from countries such as Niger and Libya. It is important to continue to support this commitment. We will continue to promote this as a cabinet. We will be committed to this and we will help to ensure that, preferably under the flag of the European Union, this is the stage for further agreements with safe third countries outside the European Union. I was also asked yesterday to give an opinion on the situation in Libya. I should like to make it quite clear to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that he has already done so when dealing with his budget, that Libya, in view of the appalling situation there, is not currently qualifying for an appointment such as the European Union has made with Turkey, for example. I, like the Chamber, have taken note of terrible images of what I can call the slave trade in Libya. Those images are hard on us, including in other countries, including countries of origin. As a result, a number of these countries have expressed their willingness to step up their efforts to retrieve their own nationals. At the same time, the Netherlands, together with the European Commission and other partners in the international community, is trying to ask the Libyan authorities for clarification and demand that action be taken against this. For example, together with the European Union, we have been supporting UNHCR for a long time to improve conditions, registration, access to medical care and food supplies in the centres in Libya. The question also arises from the Chamber: should we still seek cooperation from the European Union with the Libyan Coast Guard, should we continue to support and train them? I can imagine the inconvenience if, on the one hand, you see the situation in Libya and, on the other hand, we do support the Coast Guard. At the same time, I note that the Coast Guard, which we are trying to improve, is part of the Libyan state under construction. The Coast Guard is present at sea. The most important thing we want is that if people are at risk of drowning at sea, at least there is a ship that can save them. There is also the Libyan Coast Guard, which also has other tasks: combating arms smuggling and trafficking in human beings. I think it is a good thing that we continue to try to improve the Libyan Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yeah? Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	I share that view of the Secretary of State. The situation in Libya is appalling. We've seen the footage of slave trafficking. Nobody wants that. That seems clear to me. I am also pleased to note here that if the government is going to make deals with countries in Africa, they will have to comply with international standards, human rights and the Refugee Convention. Does the Secretary of State exclude that the European Union is currently sending refugees back to Libya?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	As I know, the European Union is not currently sending people back to Libya, quite the contrary. Do I rule it out for the future? For me, this is inherently linked to the situation in the country, as I have just indicated. This will be the case in many other countries. For the cabinet, it is essential that we have some guarantees when we act from the Netherlands and/or the European Union. Above all, we want to ensure that these guarantees are respected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	The phrase "to my knowledge" is of course interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	No offense!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	The Secretary of State therefore implies that he is not sure. The point is, of course, in the Coast Guard. The Secretary of State rightly states: we want to train the Coast Guard as best we can with all kinds of beautiful standards and standards. The point is that this Coast Guard... we see the footage, we hear the messages... does more. We're giving money to that Coast Guard. And that coast guard also operates outside the territorial waters. I therefore believe that refugees are being sent back to Libya with the support of the European Union. Does the Secretary of State recognize that? Is he willing to think very carefully about whether that is right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	This is a kind of two-stage missile in conclusion. The Libyan Coast Guard operates under the mandate of a Libyan government, and that is complicated enough, because it is sometimes unclear who exactly that is. But that does not automatically mean that they operate under the mandate of the European Union if, for example, they operate outside territorial waters. I think we should keep an eye on that divorce.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	Indeed, it may not be so much a question of whether it is happening under the mandate of the European Union as it is a fact that the Libyan Coast Guard is sending people back to Libya, who can then end up in a slave market or in a detention centre. This applies to almost 100% of the returned refugees. The European Union and the Netherlands support the Libyan Coast Guard. The Secretary of State says he feels the inconvenience. That's a lot, but I'd like to ask him now what we're doing with that inconvenience. Are we just going to continue supporting that coastguard so that people can be brought back to Libya so that they can end up in a detention center? Or are we gonna put a stop to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	Then I repeat what I have just said. Of course, from the Netherlands and, above all, from the European Union, we are addressing the Libyan authorities to put an end to these degrading situations. This is without prejudice to the fact that I do not like to intervene in the Libyan waters, where the Libyan Coast Guard operates, and then to take it over from the European Union. If you do that from within the European Union, then there must also be a guarantee that we can guarantee all the things that we consider important. That is not the case at the moment in Libya, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	Then there's been a misunderstanding. We are now intervening in Libyan territorial waters, by giving EUR 1.5 million of Dutch money to the Libyan Coast Guard. We're a player there now. We share the inconvenience about this at the moment when things happen that we say we do not want to have anything to do with it. That's what we have in common. So it's not like I'm arguing for us to intervene there. On the contrary, I would argue that we should stop interfering, at least, but that we should stop financing the operations of this coastguard, which would have disastrous consequences for the refugees in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	I suspect that Mr Van Ojik and I are close together. That it's uncomfortable, that's what Mr. Van Ojik feels, that's what I feel, I think, everyone in this room. The question then is what conclusion you draw. In fact, I would not want to go on the road to not support that coastguard from the European Union, even if it is because that coast guard operates and is present in those waters, and in some cases it is also the first and only vessel close to it when people are at risk of drowning. In my view, therefore, it is basically a question of ensuring at least that there is help and rescue for drowning people. That is uncomfortable, but I would not like to draw the immediate conclusion that Mr Ojik is asking of me. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to a different solution to international migration flows, Mr Azmani suggested that we look again at whether reception conditions can also be achieved in countries of origin, especially for amvs, i.e. for minors. In itself I share that suggestion, but that does not mean that it is easy to realize. There have also been attempts in the past to implement such provisions in a number of countries. At the moment there are also talks between European countries to see if they can do so at various locations. There was a plan for a shelter in Afghanistan. Norway, in particular, took the lead in this, but this has stopped due to a lack of cooperation. I would like to take up the suggestion that, in the near future, particularly in the European context, we should see if there are more countries for which it is appropriate to start discussions on the realisation of shelters. The extent of the influx from the different countries of origin and the possibilities of return are also important for the question of whether this is appropriate. Mr. Chairman. What is happening in the area of the European Union? I just mentioned that in my introduction. In the European Union, a number of proposals have been on the table since 2016 to review the Common European Asylum System and see how we can better harmonise it. Yesterday I was asked by a number of Members of Parliament to put pressure on that. I certainly intend to. I think we will be discussing this in general discussions next week in preparation for the first JHA Council to which I am going. That won't always be easy. Even if it is only because this is an extremely important issue in which a number of Member States have very different interests. For this reason, this cabinet continues what the previous cabinet took as its position two years ago, namely to see the various proposals as one whole and one package in particular, so that it cannot become a cherrypicking between one Member State and the other. If the whole thing is on the table, it must also be an improvement for the Netherlands. It is no good if a desire to harmonise procedures more in Europe is finally removed from the final proposal. Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned one of the things the European Union has agreed on, namely the agreement with Turkey. This raised the question of how we look at the situation on the islands in Greece with a number of Members of Parliament, including Mr Groothuizen and Mr Voordewind. There is the gateway to Europe when it comes to the agreements with Turkey. I have already mentioned this in writing. I share the concern the Chamber has. The situation in some of the reception conditions on the islands is far from sufficient, especially with winter approaching. At the same time, the question arises as to how we can solve it. We are doing everything we can from the Member States of the European Union. We provide financial support with large sums of money and the European Commission monitors the conditions on the ground. It is also up to the European Commission to take action against Greece, if necessary, and to provide guidance on how to do better. Let's move on. From many Member States, including the Netherlands, many experts are stationed in Greece to help, for example with registration and asylum procedures. It's not always a question of money. On the contrary, we see that part of the money that the European Union has earmarked to improve reception conditions in Greece, for example, is not being used. We also provided official assistance from the Netherlands to at least assist Greece in the question of how to obtain the funds from Brussels in Greece, so that the money can also be spent there. But we cannot accept a responsibility, either in the European Union or in the Netherlands, and that is the sovereign responsibility of Griekeland for its own asylum procedures. Despite all the assistance provided from other countries, the Greek authorities must ultimately decide whether or not an application for asylum is granted, and it is very often delayed. There we have no choice but to remind the Greek Government of its responsibility to comply with that part of the agreement. The same applies to agreements that have already been made, for example on the return of people who arrive on the islands and should return to Turkey. This also happens to a lesser extent than the explanation allows. The same applies to establishing or providing shelter to people arriving on the islands and being taken to the mainland. Greece, too, is likely to deal with this to a greater extent than was originally envisaged in the agreements. For the Greek authorities and for the Greek authorities, it is perhaps also getting used to the fact that Greece is no longer a transit country with all these agreements. That's what they'd traditionally set themselves up for. But we are still present in the European Councils and on the European stage in order to encourage the Greek authorities to comply with this part of the agreement and thereby to ensure that the agreement with Turkey will work even better. Mr. Chairman. A number of political groups also asked me yesterday about the resettlement of 1,750 people in the period from January 2018 to October 2019. Mr Fritsma didn't want it. Mr Voordewind had questions about it. The question was, among other things, how exactly that number was built up. Let us return to the basis of the European Union's request. As in recent years, the European Union has regularly asked the Member States what their intentions are to resettle people in the coming period. Although it is about people, the banal is always that it is then also a financial issue for the European Union. The European Union has funds available to assist in the resettlement of people, and it also wants to know from the Member States where and in what numbers resettlement will take place in the coming years and whatever profession Member States are doing on that fund. The European Commission has asked in broad terms what the Member States' intentions are, both with regard to resettlement under the agreement with Turkey and with regard to all other forms of resettlement from Africa, including under the UNHCR's flag. In addition to the national agreements to resettle on the basis of proposals from the UNHCR, which was always 500 people per year; bearing in mind the new government agreement, we have indicated to the European Union that we are entitled to funding for 1,250 persons on the basis of the national UNHCR agreement in the relevant period. These are 750 people in 2018 and 500 people in 2019. We have taken into account that the European Union's question is not about the whole of 2019. So I didn't think it was right to indicate the full number of 750, because in the last few months of 2019 there is no doubt a new question. We fill this out as we always did at the UNHCR. This means that people who are re-established on that basis come from a wide variety of countries. Recently, many people have come from camps in Jordan and Lebanon, but also from Africa. There's also a resettlement mission with Uganda. There is always room to resettle people in the Netherlands on an individual basis in urgent matters, proposed by the UNHCR. This also means that we cannot say in advance exactly where people come from. We do so according to the agreements we have had in recent years. In addition, we have indicated to the European Union that there is one working agreement that is currently leading to less influx into the European Union, and thus more opportunities for resettlement for us. That's the deal with Turkey. On that basis, we want to bring 1,750 people to the Netherlands in the period from January 2018 to October 2019, because that agreement does what we had agreed, namely to reduce the influx. Now we need to be even more precise to the European Union about where these people come from, because they are also trying to plan. At the same time, we have allowed part of that 1.750 to be filled in with resettlement on that route, if the UNHCR and the European Union so consider it necessary, should agreements be reached on the Central Mediterranean route. Apart from that, there is still an agreement in the coalition agreement that, if more agreements are reached that can be proven to lead to less influx, we will do more in proportion to resettlement. That could be the case in the future. The cabinet is prepared to do so, but there must first be such agreements. It's not that far at the moment. What falls outside is the last form of resettlement we have experienced in the last two years: relocation from reception facilities in Italy and Greece. Before that, there were agreements that ran until the end of September of this year. They have been filled in as it were, albeit a number of people arrived in Italy and Greece before 26 September, especially in Italy, and were registered only later. They're still part of the deal we made back then. The cabinet has thus indicated that in the coming months we will be bringing 150 people from that group to the Netherlands, because they were already in Italy at the time of the working decisions. That is also about our fair share, which we always take from these resettlement missions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	I have also asked for this in my contribution. For my understanding: do I understand that this number of 1,750 resettlements is basically focused on the EU's deal with Turkey, but that it has been indicated from the Netherlands that if a similar agreement is made with other countries, there will also be room to take part in the Netherlands through the EU or through the UNHCR instead of the refugees coming in through Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	Yes, and we have done this above all to be as flexible as possible towards the European Commission, because it is also trying to plan for the coming years: which Member State will take over from which countries? We have said to the European Commission: if there is an agreement with other countries, we are also prepared to resettle some of those 1,750 from other countries. For example, it may be true, but I am not saying that this is only because, in the meantime, there are not enough people in Turkey to resettle. In any case, if there is an agreement with other countries, it is our intention to get them out of there. This is without prejudice to the fact that, if there are more agreements that lead to less influx, we can also do additional resettlement, because that is also what the government agreement states.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	I think this is enlightening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the detention of foreigners: what should be further strengthened in European legislation in this area? I think we will be talking about this a lot in the coming period. In any case, as far as we are concerned, we are talking about broadening, for example, the detention possibilities of Dublin claimants in order to further discourage secondary migration. So this is about the Dublin regulation, which is also under discussion in Europe. In addition, it should be noted that results in Europe must first be achieved with other Member States and then negotiated with the European Parliament. So I do not know in advance whether 100% of this effort will be achieved, but it is the commitment of the Dutch Government. I would also like to remind you that your Chamber has a legislative proposal pending in the field of return and detention in order to further fill in foreign detention at national level. I look forward to dealing with that, but I understand that's pending in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That's how I got to the national part of my portfolio. This begins in the first place with the intention in the government agreement to achieve a more flexible asylum process and reception system. We are currently starting that program. The reason is also what we have seen over the past two years, especially during the high influx in 2015 and 2016. Then the chain was tried to the maximum. This has led to a number of lessons for all chain partners, the IND, the COA and the Return and Departure Service. It was said that we need to look very closely at how we organized it and whether we can build in a little more flexibility for the future, in case the influx is unexpectedly higher at some point. We have now launched a broad programme for this purpose. Under this programme, the various options will be developed, in consultation with the IND, the COA and the provinces and municipalities. The aim is always to better cope with fluctuations in the flow of asylum, especially in asylum reception. The COA will therefore develop options for flexible reception capacity in the coming period. These can be useful in the selection of shelters and in agreements with the municipalities. I would like to add that I suspect that, if we want to have everything done in the final phase in full detail, we will be discussing this subject with each other throughout this cabinet period, even if only because you have achieved large-scale reception facilities, where the first part of the process takes place, from one day to the next. They will therefore be opened at different stages. And then there is the logistics that comes along to have much more small-scale facilities around such a large-scale supply. In addition, we have set ourselves the goal of limiting movement as much as possible. So someone who is very promising and eventually gets a permit will get into a smaller supply as soon as possible, preferably in the region where, given his or her background in the future, there is also a chance of integration and job creation. That takes a bit of logistical head-breaking from time to time, but we'll get to work on it. And by the way, we will not wait for the implementation until the whole plan is finished in all its details, because every step you can take, every part you can already get started with, is well taken into account. That's what we need to do. In fact, I am right in responding to the plan put forward by the SP Group by Mr Van Dijk. He indicated: you need a more flexible buffer. That is one of the aims we have with the flexible reception plan. We also come into this plan with an elaboration of what we mean by "more small-scale facilities." I expect to have the whole plan of action ready in the spring. I'll come to the Chamber with that, of course. Mrs Van Toorenburg raised the question of how to streamline procedures. I remember that Mr Bishop also had a question about that. This also applies: on the one hand, looking at procedures, which we do partly on the European stage, and on the other hand, looking at how we apply them in practice. In this respect, too, the chain partners have sometimes had ideas over the past few years about how things can connect even more efficiently, about how the process can become even more streamlined. We're all gonna give that a place in this plan. Part of domestic reception is also the intention in the government agreement to remove three headlines that we now have on European legislation. This means: no legal aid at first hearing, no response to a repeated application and see if the temporary permit can be granted from five to three years. I'm going to work out those intentions, too. I expect to return to that in the first half of next year. Among other things, Mr Voordewind asked: if legal aid falls at first hearing, what does that mean for the preparation of the asylum seeker for his procedure? He suggested, among other things, that he also look at the role of refugee work in the Netherlands at the moment. Without going into the precise details, which I would like to include in the drafting of this proposal, I can assure the House that we will of course look at these aspects. What is the procedure now? How will it be when legal aid expires at first hearing? And what guarantees should we provide in the procedure to ensure that the asylum seeker is properly prepared for his procedure? I will also take into account the role that voluntary organisations already play and the role they could play in the future. I propose that I inform the Chamber as soon as the whole proposal is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	It sounds wise to look at it like that. Apart from the information on the front, in the eight-day procedure we have set up together, I see also a point in the period between the intention expressed and the time you have to submit the view. It could be tight under the circumstances. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	Yeah, I'm gonna take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	Part of the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	Just one small question. I also asked about the role of advice or reports from ecclesiastical bodies or individuals in making decisions. The written reply, for which, by the way, thanks, gives a proper description of the procedure. But my question is whether these opinions can be taken into account in a different way and more as an expert report can be involved in the consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	I had saved the part of creating reviews of gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transgenders and converts for later, but I will bring it forward. Then I can answer Mr Bishop's question right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u30	Okay, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u32	Sorry, Chairman. I was just chewing on the whole legal aid, deleting it and "you'll come back when things go wrong." I have reservations about this, precisely because we also looked at it in the previous period and put in place a specific group to do so. Suppose someone is sent back after step one and still has to have legal aid, because he has been rejected. Then how do you guarantee someone with clean eyes is looking at the new file? This also requires the necessary administrative effort. I would ask the Secretary of State to include this specifically in explaining what it looks like in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u33	We are going to make a proposal, and that includes all these aspects. That is what I intended when I said just now that we still need to look at safeguards throughout the procedure. So that's what I'm gonna look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u35	I come to the subject of assessments, and especially assessments in the process of converts and lhbtis of what is inner, so inside. Is it always possible for the competent authorities, such as the IND, to give that a proper place in the final assessment? I admit that I have explained in particular how this is currently being done. Mr Bishop said that. It's one of the questions I had myself about this wallet when I took office. As a basis, it is good to establish that it is really going very carefully. In recent years, both lhbti interest groups and the COC have also been involved. They have also provided training in the past. Churches often play a role in the other group, converts, Christians. They can come up with reports, too. But I did understand the question of the Chamber. Although I think it is happening carefully, we can always see if there is any improvement possible. Time doesn't stand still either. Sometimes there are new developments. If the Chamber so wishes, I am open to looking at the procedure again. I think I understood the Chamber a little in the first place yesterday. I'm willing to see how we can improve it. I can also inform the Chamber that due to the topicality of the subject, the WODC had already planned to investigate it next year. If recommendations come out of that, I will look into that as well. But that research has yet to be started, so it will certainly not be completed at the beginning of next year. I'll see if we can improve on that in the process. It is also not the case that statements from, for example, the ecclesiastical world do not play a role in the process. I'd like to take that impression away. Those statements are indeed taken into account, but there is ultimately one body that is the only one responsible for deciding and ultimately the only one to judge the credibility of the entire asylum story. This may or may not result in the application being accepted. But, as I said, we will look at improvements to that. But I note that this is generally done in all due care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u36	Thank you for this commitment to look at improvements. I understand from the written answers that organisations dealing with this issue, such as the Plaisier Committee and possibly the COC, are actively involved. Can the Secretary of State confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u37	Of course, I am open to involving organisations. I think it is good to highlight that committees can provide input, but can never make the whole decision. In fact, in the past it has been shown that committees themselves do not want to sit on that chair either. But we'll look into that. By the way, insertions are being delivered at the moment. The reality is that we usually never hear back when it leads to acceptance. But there may always be circumstances in which it will not lead to acceptance, despite the fact that there is a report or an expert's statement. But as I said, we're gonna take a look at it. Then I'll move on to the subject I've already started on. Of course, it is also part of the policy of return and return policy. Questions were asked yesterday by many political groups about the return to Afghanistan. Let's get back in time first. At the end of 2016, a new post from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was published, as is regularly the case. This is reflected in a tightening up of the country's policy with regard to Afghanistan in February of this year. That message of office and country policy already said that the situation in Afghanistan was worrying, but that it was not yet a reason for the 15c policy, namely to say for an entire area that return is not possible, or to introduce a moratorium. This has also been confirmed in case law by the European Court of Justice on Afghanistan. This situation is still worrying, as it was noted at the beginning of the year. Despite reports, however, we have not found that the situation has deteriorated substantially since then. Then we also look at recent reports. If you look at that, there is no reason to introduce a moratorium. So I would not like to go into that either, knowing that there are many exceptions to the policy. It is precisely on the basis of the current country policy that people from a number of regions and people belonging to a number of groups are already excluded from return. In addition, every assessment of a request in the Netherlands always looks at the extent to which someone needs individual protection. Due to the fact that a number of reports have also recently been received about the situation in Afghanistan, the cabinet has taken another step. All official messages shall be rewritten periodically. This may or may not lead to strengthened or relaxed country policies. The next post for Afghanistan was scheduled for the end of 2018. That has already been brought forward to summer 2018. It can be done even faster, and that is what we want to do, namely by zooming in on security in that message. Then it's called a thematic ministry security message. So that's what we're about to accelerate. That could be done in May. We are currently determining the exact question; the terms of reference, as is the professional term. To this end, we are also looking together with relevant organisations, for example Amnesty, at the aspects on which we want further information. This will enable the Foreign Office to start working from January on to make that statement of office. It is indicated that the lead time is about four months. That would mean we have a new post in May. In the meantime, there is simply the policy in force, which already contains many exceptions and in which this individual assessment is always made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u38	We understand what the exceptions are, but we are getting reports that it is very difficult to get into those safer regions, because you are actually forced to get through the risky areas. Can the Secretary of State consider that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u39	I repeat what I just said, namely that requests are already being examined individually, so it is always weighed to what extent each individual needs protection. I think that is already taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u40	Who was before? Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u41	It's a good thing the message of office is coming forward as quickly as possible. That's in May. That's not tomorrow, but it'll be a while. We received a petition yesterday from Haroon, on behalf of many of his compatriots, who may be expelled in two weeks' time. He is also not covered by the exceptions to the so-called target group policy. You want me to establish that he's had bad luck?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u42	I intended to do so, and this is the first opportunity to test it...... that I do not go into individual matters in the Chamber. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u43	That's kind of firm, but I'm assuming this could be different. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to his petition, which is not just about him as a person. He has done so on behalf of many Afghans. He is asking me to suspend the expulsion policy, and I will ask him to do so. If the Secretary of State says, "Wait till May," I think we're almost in agreement. There's only a time difference in our views. Then I guess the Secretary of State could take over after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u44	Well, I have just indicated that I would not wish to suspend expulsions in a general sense, even because the current country policy shows that it is worrying in Afghanistan, as I have just argued. That was no reason for the Netherlands to suspend the expulsion policy. In this respect, despite the worrying situation in Afghanistan, not much has changed substantially. This also applies to the Member States around us, which were referred to yesterday. We are not aware of any other Member States in the European Union which are currently suspending expulsions to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u45	We were just having a discussion about Libya and then the Secretary of State talked about his inconvenience. Now I'm experiencing discomfort again, and I'll explain that. On the one hand, the Secretary of State says that nothing has actually changed in the security situation in Afghanistan since the beginning of this year, but on the other hand he has taken a message of office, which was meant for the end of next year, first to the summer and now it is being brought forward for a few months. I think that is very good, but if you are deported between now and May, and the new post will show that it has become more unsafe, then you are unlucky to use Mr Van Dijk's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u46	I have brought forward the message of office in order to accommodate many Members of Parliament who have asked for it. Official messages always appear periodically. I do not think that every time a new post comes up, we should indicate in advance that we are expecting a certain outcome in the post. The announcement of a year ago also indicated that it was worrying and then, on a number of points, the country's policy was strengthened, but it did not make it completely impossible to return to Afghanistan. Moreover, when assessing applications, it is never true that only the country policy and notice are taken into account. There is also always a look at what is known from public sources about the situation in the country of origin. So that is much more a running and sliding process than that at one time the decision falls the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u47	I understand that, but you're not asking for nothing to bring forward a judgment. The Secretary of State even wants to bring it up a little further. It was supposed to come from the summer, but he's now asked for May. There's no other way than to do that because you don't feel very happy about what's going on right now. Otherwise, you won't need an early review. The question now is what does the sense of the Secretary of State mean for the people Mr Van Dijk mentioned that Mr Haroon we spoke to yesterday, who are now in danger of being deported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u48	This means what I have just said: in many individual cases a decision may be made in such a way that one can stay here on the basis of one of the exceptions, of the country policy in force and of the fact that the situation was already worrying in the last post. But that doesn't generally lead everyone to never go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u49	I see you standing, Mr. Groothuizen, but D66 is through all the interruptions. I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for his contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u50	He likes mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u51	No, it doesn't work that way, Mr. Azmani. I'd like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u52	An exchange!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u53	No, no trade-out, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Voordewind, because you are in receipt of interruptions. I would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to conclude his contribution. I want to get over my heart and allow one question, but then when the Secretary of State is all done. You know you don't have to use that; Mr. Fritsma is going to negotiate right away. Mr Voordewind has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u54	I hesitated for a moment, because you say you'll allow one more interruption. At the entire migration block, do I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u55	No, I'm not gonna repeat it; I'm sorry. We met this morning. We owe you some interruptions, so you don't have to negotiate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u56	No, but that was just for the record. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, in relation to the subject of Afghanistan, whether he has currently requested the judgment of UNHCR. If people actually go back now but UNHCR advises not to, then we should not wait four or five months. I'll give that to the Secretary of State. I would also like to ask him whether he has aligned his policy with Germany and France, countries which, because of the deteriorating situation, are once again reluctant and, as I understand it, do not send people back to Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u57	It is a good thing that Mr Voordewind asks that question, because the role of UNHCR has been referred to a number of times yesterday. UNHCR does not make a clear statement on the fact that return to Afghanistan would not be possible. On the one hand, last month UNHCR indicated that there was an increase in acts of war in Afghanistan, but at the same time indicated that the number of civilian casualties was decreasing. This could also point out that there is much more targeted violence between warring parties and that fewer civilians are victims of it. But to answer the question, we do not know from UNHCR any sounds that return is categorically impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u58	Then there is the second question. Yeah, that's the disadvantage of asking too many questions at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u59	Perhaps Mr Voordewind could help me with what the question was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u60	Communication must be two things to remember, but I'll help you. The question was about Germany and France and the coordination with other countries about what is happening in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u61	I have just indicated this in response to other questions. Other European Member States have also failed to implement a collapse moratorium. So there is still a return to Afghanistan from all Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u62	I would like to point out to the Secretary of State that UNHCR does not speak of fewer wounded. There's an increase of 20%. Probably the Secretary of State means the violent incidents. They have indeed decreased, but the number of wounded has increased by 20%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u63	I don't mean to trivialize. Let that be very clear. I just want to explain the developments. And, of course, the situation in Afghanistan has been worrying for a long time, but it is not that you can read the UNHCR's report unequivocally if that would be much more serious than it was three quarters of a year ago and that this should lead to a return Moratorium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u64	Perhaps like no other, I understand the complex considerations of the Secretary of State, but I also have a feeling of déjà vu and I would refer to the situation we had a few years ago in Burundi. Then there were the same feeling and the same signals as there are now around Afghanistan. Just after a single mother and her child were deported to Burundi, a moratorium was proclaimed. The same mother and child had to flee immediately after their eviction. That gave me the conviction that you have to act very carefully. That is why I ask again: if there are so many signals and the message of office is not brought forward for nothing, would it not be wise to announce a moratorium for that short period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u65	I wouldn't want to go that way anyway. The situation has been worrying for a long time. That's what it was on the last post. This has already led to a tightening up of national policies. So in that respect, despite recent reports which are also diffuse, I would like to await the next post of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u66	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u67	I conclude that the Secretary of State states what he doesn't want but that he doesn't say why he doesn't want to. You can't just say, 'cause I want to get that message first. Then you also have to motivate the substance why you don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u68	That's the motivation I gave you. There have been many reports from Afghanistan for a long time, but they do not clearly indicate that the situation is much more worrying or much worse than at the beginning of this year. That's the motivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u69	I suggest that you continue with the remaining points and also come to a conclusion, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm sure you can. On the subject of return, another issue that was asked for yesterday, namely the return of Syrians. Mr Fritsma and Mr Azmani, among others, raised the question of whether, as Syrians return to Syria, it is not time we re-evaluated asylum protection here. I think we should be careful when drawing conclusions, because the picture is not clear there either. Syrians are returning, but we see that Syrians, in particular, who have not left Syria at all or who were in neighbouring countries, such as Lebanon. Then it is a bit of a guess, but the reception conditions in Lebanon or another neighbour, such as Jordan, can also play a role in this. At the same time, of course, we are looking at changing circumstances. In this case, too, if we foresee that the situation in Syria could change, this has been a reason to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to draw up a notice of office in the second half of next year in order to give a proper assessment of whether and how the situation in Syria has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u71	The first thing this Secretary of State has done is to bring in even more migrants as part of that strange resettlement. The first thing he should have done, however, is to send back all those Syrians. In recent years 70,000 Syrians have been admitted to the Netherlands. Worldwide, hundreds of thousands of Syrians return home, because it is safe again. From Turkey, even Syrians go home massively to celebrate the Sacrifice. Then you can't leave them here, I'll ask this Secretary of State. In fact, new Syrian asylum seekers from safe Syria are coming here and receiving residence permits...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u72	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u73	In this way, the cabinet will be squeaking through the entire asylum industry again. I therefore ask that all these temporary asylum permits of Syrians be withdrawn, and that they should stop granting permits to new Syrian asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u74	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u75	It is not the case that asylum permits can never be withdrawn, but we are also happy to do so on the basis of a proper assessment in the country itself. This means, as with the previous subject, that we are just really looking at what the situation is on the ground and whether it has been constantly improved. I believe that it is only recently that Syria is once again under way. The situation may improve, but we're not sure. So it is only when we have that assessment that we can draw conclusions for the permits here as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yeah, just waiting for the last cabinet to do so all the time. We know what that has led to, namely that everyone stays here. The fact is that these temporary asylum permits are converted into authorisations for an indefinite period after five years. You won't be able to move in anymore. The cabinet will therefore wait until the end of the month and everyone will be granted an indefinite residence permit. Then we are here with 70,000 Syrians who are massively in welfare and are massively in social housing, which Dutch people were no longer able to do. You're doing exactly what you shouldn't do. I ask this cabinet and this Secretary of State to do something in favour of Dutch people and to withdraw those permits. I say it again: it has long been proven that this can be done. Those Syrians are already going home. It's safe there. You should not leave them here in aid, but let them help rebuild their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u77	In our view, it is still mainly the case that Syrians go home who have not left Syria or have been in a neighbouring country where conditions may be very bad, but I come to meet Mr Fritsma. In this case, Saint Juttemis is the year 2018. Next year, an assessment will be made of the situation on the ground. Then, on the basis of the facts on the ground, we can judge whether Syria is a safe place to return to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr Fritsma has already mentioned the numbers, and I think we should be realistic in this. You just see developments taking place in the country of Syria that are moving in the right direction. Thank God, I'd like to say. The Secretary of State states that he wishes to base himself on a statement of office that will be ready in mid-2018. I understand that, but in the meantime I ask the Secretary of State to put this issue on the agenda with his European colleagues, especially since this is not an easy matter. If you look at the situation in Syria, it also requires some build-up programmes, if we really want to be able to send people back. I also think it is good to really put this issue on the agenda, also because we need to do expectation management, including with regard to people currently with temporary residence status in the Netherlands. That is the subject that needs to be on the agenda. This issue must also be prepared in such a way that there are instruments and there is a perspective for people who ultimately have to return. Does the Secretary of State also wish to raise this issue with his colleagues in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u79	As with many of the subjects I mentioned at the beginning, it helps to discuss this with European colleagues. So yes, I'm willing to. With regard to Syria, Mr Azmani also asked for the 1F assessments, i.e. the assessments of people who could have committed war crimes. I have also given the answer in writing, but I would like to highlight it here: we are constantly engaging, so not at one time, signals about 1F actions in assessments. To this end, we also intend to expand the so-called "1F-unit" within the IND in the coming years. In addition, Mr Azmani asked for new knowledge of potential warriors to look again at Syrian matters that were previously accepted. I think that's an interesting and meaningful suggestion and I'll ask the IND to pick this up. I hope, however, that you will allow me some time to see how we are going to implement this appropriately. I will return to the Chamber in due course with the results. I'm going to come up with a slightly underexplained topic in my wallet. I was therefore pleased that Mr Azmani drew attention to this. That's regular migration, economic migration. That's a subject that almost never makes the news. That is why I would like to say a few words about this. The Netherlands has a well-functioning knowledge migrants scheme. In addition, in recent years we have developed many other arrangements to ensure that people who contribute to our economy, sometimes temporary and sometimes longer, are welcome here. An example is the search year for people in higher education in the Netherlands, but there is also a start-up scheme. Next year, we're gonna see if there's any barriers in there. I welcome the suggestion made for this. This could be the case, for example, with such a start-up scheme or with smaller companies. We will see if we can remove any barriers. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the last block of my input. I will go into the comments that have been made on trafficking in human beings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u80	Mr President, I have a small point of order. The small scheme that we have received also contains the subject of children's pardon. That hasn't been treated yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u81	That's right, I browsed a little too fast. Yesterday, a generous application of the children's pardon was requested. I always find it difficult to apply this kind of words to policy, because I also stand for the rule of law, for the fact that when rules have been agreed, they are applied uniformly. These are, after all, also matters which, in their nature, are probably never entirely uniform and unambiguous. The basis is that the coalition agreement has agreed that we are not going to change the arrangement. This means that the principles and criteria that people have to meet remain the same. At the same time, however, and I am also in favour of this, we must always stand for a careful, individual and realistic assessment of the current regime. So if that is meant by "empty" by the Chamber, then we already do so and then we continue in that way. At the same time, however, I would point out that it is not the intention to change the rules and principles in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u82	It's bad enough that the pardon scheme is going to last. We've pulled the departure numbers. It appears that this child's pardon completely undermines the departure policy. Of the thousands of people who have been rejected under that scheme, only 80 have left. In other words, all asylum seekers' families, almost all asylum seekers' families, remain here. The Secretary of State is talking about a healthy return policy. If one thing is turning your back on that healthy return policy, it's that weird excuse. That pardon rewards illegality, and that's why no one leaves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u83	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u84	The PVV continues to call on the cabinet: put a line through the whole pardon arrangement, because it ensures that no one leaves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u85	What Mr Fritsma is ignoring is the fact that not only people have been accompanied, supervised, left, but also people have left without supervision. Those people aren't in his grades. You may differ to what extent this is a problem, but I note that we in the Netherlands have the policy in which people who can no longer remain regular are supposed to leave on their own. This is legislation and regulation that has been in place for almost 20 years. That's the legislation I'm enforcing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u86	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u87	That's not an answer. The numbers I just used are numbers from the cabinet itself. The PVV Group has asked for these figures. Thousands of people have been rejected under that pardon scheme and only 80 have left. In other words, all these asylum seekers' families stay here. The problem that the whole Chamber thinks it is going to solve, preventing children from growing up illegally, is now massively fueled by this regulation. Soft healers make very stinking wounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u88	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u89	And now the question. If the Secretary of State takes his own return policy seriously, then he has to get rid of that arrangement. It is even said by the director of the Return and Departure Service: this child pardon scheme is devastating for the return. If the Secretary of State chooses to continue with the scheme, he chooses to pursue a sick foreign policy. I urge him to stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u90	I think I am repeating myself, but Mr Fritsma's figures are only about people who have left under supervision. Of that, we're 100% sure they've left. But there are also people who left without supervision. In my opinion, life in illegality is a pleasure for no one. This leads a number of people to eventually build another existence elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u91	Mr Fritsma is very angry, but in reality one person fell under the children's pardon last year. So I don't understand that anger. It is also a question for the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State says that the scheme is still in place. I, too, have, of course, taken a good look at the coalition agreement. Within the scheme, which included one last year, the Secretary of State wishes to apply the rules carefully. In my contribution, I asked whether this could be done in all reasonable terms. In fact, no one is covered at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u92	For this, too, you end up in individual cases: why the one and others don't? I'll stay out of it. If you apply regulations, you do it carefully, it happens individually. There are always considerations that need to be made. What I said at the beginning: I really think that the employees are doing this incredibly conscientiously and reasonably. But I can't guarantee here that that will lead to other outcomes. However, I stand for the careful and precise implementation of the policy. There are a number of criteria in the scheme. We agreed not to change it. If you are going to change it, you will end up in legal inequality with others who did comply with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u93	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u94	The Secretary of State will not hear me ask that, because I recognize what is in the coalition agreement. The rules are now such that, at the time you don't sign a declaration of voluntary return, you don't cooperate with your departure. So you can never qualify for the children's pardon. The mere fact that you don't sign there is all the reason not to have a child's pardon. My request is whether, in particular, it is possible to look more flexibly at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u95	It's always a total weighing of a file, so I'm not going to promise that right now. I have already said that we are always looking carefully at all these issues, but that will not in any case make it easier to accept them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u96	Reasonable, careful, balanced - who would oppose it? Who would say that it should all be careless and unreasonable? That's not what we're here for. I'm glad the Secretary of State confirms that. The fact is, however, that after a very long period of political strife, we have been given an arrangement in which more than 95% of the people, children for whom the scheme was intended, ultimately do not qualify. My question is, is that correct? If that is true, then what is the point of this regulation at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'm not going into the numbers that were meant to cover them all in advance. If you look at percentages, it could also be that people who clearly do not meet the criteria and receive a rejection stand at the percentage of people who have received a rejection. That's why you have to go back longer. I note that a number of criteria were introduced at the time and that the aim was that the people meeting those criteria should be covered by the scheme. That's what's then tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u98	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u99	The last number I saw is 98%. Mr Voordewind said I believe that last year no one or one person met it. Then you've made a deal after a lot of hassle and then one person turns out to be eligible for it. Then you will also be Secretary of State, regardless of what you think of the children's pardon, and I will look at Mr Fritsma's conclusion that something is not quite right with that arrangement. Or am I wrong about that? This is how I ask the Secretary of State through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u100	We first had the temporary arrangement and then got this definitive arrangement. In previous years, many more cases have been granted. The arrangement is as it is. We're not going to change that. One person was eligible in one year, but more people have been eligible in the previous years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u101	Let's get back to the arrangement. Indeed, one person was eligible for this. That's a reason for the PVV to complain and for Mr Voordewind to get angry about that. Those are a little crocodile tears. He has now exchanged it for the plush of ruling. Is it possible to evaluate? I know you didn't mean numbers in advance, but is the scheme working as we intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u102	I must say quite frankly that I am not yet ready to know whether evaluation arrangements have been made at the time of implementation. But once again, in the end you have an arrangement, there are a number of agreements, then there are applications and people do or do not comply with them. In all honesty, there is not much to evaluate. When the scheme was introduced, the aim was to accept applications from people who met the criteria. That's what happens in practice. However, you are also dependent on the applications and whether the criteria are met. Everyone will have different views as to whether this is done to a sufficient extent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u103	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u104	If it turns out that virtually no one is eligible, then we come to the famous statement by Jan Schaefer, who said: have we thought about it or is this policy? It says that we still have to think about how we work and the idea that we have behind policy. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State, through the President, to see if that can be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u105	I repeat my answer: I see no need to do so. More requests from people have been accepted in the years before. The fact remains that there are a number of criteria and people have to meet them. It shall be carefully assessed whether this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u106	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. I come to the last issue that I had already announced: trafficking in human beings and prostitution. I will start with the report that we had a few weeks ago, the last report by the previous National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings, which shows that the extent of this crime is much greater than we thought. It concerns all kinds of forced labour, exploitation and forced inciting theft and crime. It always leads to one thing, namely people who have lost their personal freedom. I think that is a very serious crime. This also justifies the intensification of the approach to trafficking in human beings that we announced in the government agreement and on which I sent a letter to your Chamber on behalf of a number of those concerned earlier this week. It is also important that we talk to municipalities, because municipalities would not always recognize the signals to a sufficient extent. We also need to talk to all those professionals, district agents, supervisors and healthcare staff, who could recognize signals that could indicate trafficking in human beings. We must then gather these signals together in order to get a better idea of the nature and extent of this problem. At the same time, we must ensure that municipalities, the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other involved partners then have a toolbox to prevent, identify and combat trafficking in human beings. Also when it comes to prostitution, the cabinet wants to prevent exploitation and at least protect sex workers from trafficking in human beings. That is why I intend to speed up the licensing system for all forms of sexual service. It's gonna take a law change. It requires an amendment to a bill that has been under discussion for a very long time. It was filed in 2009 and is now in the form of a novelle in the Upper House. There is one further step, because we will have to adapt it one more time in order to regulate it properly in accordance with the intentions of the coalition agreement. I'll get back to your room on that. We are moving forward very quickly, but it is not settled overnight either. There are three steps. We need to make a bill. We're gonna have to do that in consultation. Two further rounds will follow: the Council of State and the Personal Data Authority. I aim to have the proposal around before the summer of 2018 and to be able to consult, and then to speed up this legislative process, which has been going on for eight years, in this cabinet period in accordance with the intentions of the government agreement. In accordance with the wishes of the Chamber, I will also be working on the legal regulation of local intakes for people working in prostitution, because this will allow us to keep a close eye on health and well-being and, above all, to avoid abuses as much as possible. A number of specific questions have been asked on this subject. Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union asked yesterday about the funds released for the reception of victims. A technical answer is that they are not included in the budget of Justice and Security, but in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America. I understand that the budgetary procedure is yet to come. The question would belong there. At the same time, I have already mentioned in the letter I sent to the Chamber this week that we want to come forward with a comprehensive plan of action in the first quarter of next year. As far as we are concerned, the use of these funds is also part of it, as we can see it in the context of the comprehensive approach to trafficking in human beings. That time is early enough to put that money into use in 2018, so we do not have to commit this to the VWS budget today or soon. The money is there and can be spent in 2018. They also asked about the role of the municipalities. I have just indicated that this is in the plan of action. Here too, I think, is the question of how, in consultation with municipalities, we can ensure that municipalities are equipped and, above all, trained to recognise the signs of trafficking in human beings, so that local policies are also made. Finally, the bill on pimp ban is also part of the prostitution portfolio. I am giving that part of the answer on behalf of the Minister of Justice and Security. He will consider the bill for the ban on pimping, because it amends the Code of Criminal Law. But that too is what we are going to speed up. We hope to return to that with you next year. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u108	At least that's what you thought, Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you for the generous answers and the commitment. I have faith in that. I look forward to the plan of action, too. I missed another part. That was the investment we're going to make in regional Prostitution Control Teams. My question is whether the Secretary of State also wants to include this point in the plan of action, so that the means of detection and enforcement in relation to these abuses in prostitution can also be used there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u110	That too is sometimes finding out whether it belongs to me or the minister. On behalf of the three of us, yes, we'll take a good look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u112	I wanted to ask you a few questions, and that might save us a motion. The Secretary of State said he came up with the flexible reception plan in the spring. He had also responded to my plan, which is related to that. May I ask him to include this plan? Then I won't file a motion later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u113	I have already seen two aspects relating to this: flexible reception and more small-scale reception. There is an aspect of a kind of division between the municipalities. Perhaps that is what Mr Van Dijk is referring to. I indicated in the answer that we should discuss the flexible chain with municipalities and provinces anyway, but that it is also not the case that the municipalities say: do it in a completely proportional manner. There are municipalities that indicate that they can accommodate a little more, and other municipalities a little less. In recent years, we have developed a well-functioning system of regional management tables, where all these tasks are discussed together with municipalities. Since that system works well, I would not want to intervene from above with some sort of new distribution system. That's what I'm saying in advance. But in due course we will be discussing this, knowing Mr Van Dijk when the whole plan comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u114	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u115	I am not asking the Secretary of State to take over the plan one-on-one immediately. I'm just asking him to get involved. There are more proposals in it than just that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u116	I saw that last one, too. I'll get back to the plan on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u117	I had asked for the implementation of the motion that was tabled and adopted last year to appeal to municipalities to shape a policy on exit opportunities from prostitution. The Secretary of State stated in his reply that this would happen, that additional funds would be made available and that the exit programmes would continue. Even when these exit programmes were already there last year, we asked with that motion whether the cabinet would like to address and encourage municipalities to work on them, to pay more attention to them. That's my point. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to carry out the motion in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u118	I know from the preparation that Mr Van der Staaij tabled a motion last year and that we are implementing it. If this goes with that, I'd like to get on with it. In all honesty, I do not know all the details of last year's motion. Perhaps I can come back to this in the second term. But it doesn't sound like a weird question or a weird request in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you. I think you were done. Before going to the second deadline, I would like to give the Minister the floor to give his opinion on the amendments tabled. They haven't been judged yet. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u120	Then I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 22 by Mr Van Nispen at €113,000 for the Expertise Centre Online Child Abuse. The centre of expertise performs a valuable function in the removal of child pornography material. It thus contributes to the safe use of the Internet. This is a joint responsibility of the government, Internet providers, web hosting providers and so on. I think it is justified to stick to the principle that the Centre of Expertise continues to work for substantial funding of its activities by the private sector. However, the allocation of an additional amount is at the same time in line with the strong growth in the number of notifications and I therefore leave the assessment of this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u121	Well, Mr. Van Nispen looks really happy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u122	I'll make you happy. The motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u123	The amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u124	Yes, of course, the amendment, my apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u125	Doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u126	I'm gonna have to practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u127	That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u128	The Van Nispen amendment to item No. 23 is about Sect signal. A fee of €98,000 is requested. Sect signal has a useful function, because the hotline helps the police and the D.A. to surmount abuses. A file analysis also shows that abuses and offences may not have become apparent through regular channels. But an amount of €50,000 should, in my opinion, be sufficient. If Mr Van Nispen is prepared to amend the amendment to that amount, I am prepared to leave the opinion on this amendment to your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u129	I think that amount is really necessary, but I can hear what the Minister is saying. I am prepared to amend the amendment. However, I would ask the Minister to make an effort during the year to consult with the Sektesignal to see how the possible problems arising from the halving of this budget can be solved. But I will amend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u130	At least I'll admit to having such a conversation with Sect signal. The Van der Graaf/Van Dam amendment to item No. 28 is about the mental care of the police. A €200,000 fee is requested for professional mental care for police officers. I support the need for a professional provision of mental care to the police and endorse the considerations set out in the amendment. National police are working out a plan for a structural facility. I expect the results of this in spring 2018. I consider the amendment tabled to support the policy and approach. I shall therefore leave the opinion to the Chamber. The Van Dam/Groothuizen amendment to item No. 40 is about the NVvR and replaces the amendment to item No. 29. It asks for €200,000 to reverse the further cuts on the NVvR. As I indicated in an earlier amendment, I think that the reversal of this austerity is a sympathetic idea. In view of the limited amount proposed, I shall leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Chicken/Van Nispen amendment in part No. 34 is about the Internet discrimination hotline. In principle, I am in favour of the work of the hotline. The decision to stop or reduce the subsidy is motivated by the financial situation within the department and the need to make choices. In the case of a few amendments, we see room for the Court to decide, but this is not the case here. I am therefore obliged to discourage this amendment. In the Verhoeven/Kuiks amendment to item No. 36 is asked for €410,000 for open source encryption. Mr Verhoeven stressed the importance of research into topics that contributed to our digital security. Of course, I can only support that. In this way, an impetus is given to and also connected to existing resources. I would like to stress that it is a positive contribution to our cybersecurity. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u131	Thank you. Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u132	I do not think I have yet received an opinion on my amendment to item No. 39 with regard to Femmes for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u133	Could you take a look at that? I hear the Secretary of State for Legal Protection did that. That was dissuaded. Good. I thank all three rulers. We have come to the end of the first term on the part of the government. We are now going to the second term of office. I'll take a look around first. Is there a need for a short suspension, or are you just able to continue? I see Mrs. Helder's already standing by. I call Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for Justice and Security for his answers. I would like to thank the other two directors for their presence. I didn't ask them any questions. I didn't ask them any questions. I am not entirely satisfied with one answer and not at all with one answer. I'll keep it for the last time. However, I am pleased to hear that there will be no "force of the workplace," as I mentioned in the first term, when allocating the 267 million euros to the police. The Minister also writes that he is confident that the money will not end up with the Ministry of Finance. I still think it's too little money, but okay, it's a start. I will continue to monitor progress, and in the various debates we have, I will continue to monitor the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the undermining fund. Unfortunately, it is not structurally filled, but the Minister writes that the supposed to take away criminal assets has already been taken into account in the budget. Then my question is: can this in the future, perhaps the distant future, be partially different? And if not, what about the proposal to return stolen items, such as a boat, to society? We have read that proposal in the media, but I have also heard colleagues do it here. Then there's the answer I'm not entirely satisfied with. This is about the measuring tool to get the most out of the picture of actual crime. All the monitors the minister mentions don't give a complete picture. Cybercrime is not involved, and that is a big problem, because 50% of classic crimes now have a digital component. In the near future, that will only become more. The willingness to report on the internet is between 5% and 8%, according to the chief of police on Tuesday at the opening of the congress called DEX-XL. I therefore remain of the opinion that an additional measuring instrument is needed. The minister writes that the WODC is now conducting additional research into cybercrime. The result is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2018. Then I would like to hear from the Minister whether it is a one-off additional investigation, or whether cybercrime is being investigated structurally. In anticipation of the answers, I am still obliged to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that registered crime does not give a complete picture of the number of offences actually committed, because the crime recorded only reflects the number of offences reported by citizens;]] [[noting that victim surveys are used to get a better picture of the number of offences actually committed, but that these are only samples that do not include all crimes;]] [[considers that as much clarity as possible should be provided on the actual number of offences committed, including because this is the basis for whether or not to amend policies and/or legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate a new and/or additional measuring instrument in order to obtain as much clarity as possible on the actual number of crimes committed per year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u135	Finally, the Veterinary Forensic Team. That brings me to the answer that I am not satisfied with at all, because unfortunately there is still a misunderstanding. I didn't ask for any extra money. I asked the Minister to finance the Veterinary Forensic Team within the existing funds. The reference to the Animal Abuse Landelijk Expertisecentrum in the letter of 31 August this year is incorrect for several reasons. These are clinical activities in the event of suspected animal abuse. It is mainly intended to assist veterinarians in investigating whether there is animal abuse, and therefore it is not directly accessible to the task holders of animal welfare. Mrs Verkerk of the Veterinary Forensic Team is the only veterinary forensic doctor in Europe. The LED doesn't have that expertise. The Veterinary Forensic Team carries out forensic work, i.e. work on the detection of criminal offences, e.g. when a dead animal is found. Did a dead dog get dumped, or was he thrown alive in the water? This team makes a difference. Finally, in support of the fact that police chief Veldhuis, chief of police of the North Netherlands team, said at the opening of the LED last Wednesday that he regretted that the Veterinary Forensic Team had been put out of play. 'Cause that's how it happened. He believes that the team should be able to be involved in the search. Chief of Staff Veldhuis is responsible for the animal police within the national police; that's what I still call it. Yeah, that's a good point. I therefore appeal again to the Minister. If he doesn't do it for the animals, do it for the agents who do this important work. Finally, in support of my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Veterinary Forensic Team is the only one in the Netherlands with expertise in veterinary forensic pathology;]] [[noting that the Veterinary Forensic Team is regularly involved in the national police by task holders in animal welfare;]] [[noting that the Veterinary Forensic Team does not receive any funding from the Ministry of Justice and Security, or from the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality;]] [[noting that the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of Utrecht University is paid for similar activities by public authorities;]] [[Considers that the Veterinary Forensic Team should be paid in a similar way for its work in the field of detection and prosecution of animal welfare offences;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the Veterinary Forensic Team can make use of the available budget for its work,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Helder and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u136	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u137	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u138	Did I do my best for two days, and then I'll forget about it in the end, of which I'm aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u139	He'll be proud of you. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Fritsma, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u140	Thank you, Mr President. With the first acts of the new cabinet in the area of immigration and asylum, we know enough. The foreign policy remains a very weak bite. The first achievement of the cabinet is to pick up thousands of extra foreigners in addition to the normal flow of asylum, which is still in the tens of thousands every year. Because, yes, the EU is asking, and then we do not know in Box K how fast and how deep one has to bend. An example must be taken of politicians and countries that do take account of the importance of their own people; see, for example, Hungary. Furthermore, there are some sad attempts to remove the so-called root causes of migration in Africa. Those attempts are, of course, doomed to failure, as the Turkish deal failed, as the Dutch ambassador in Greece recently indicated. It is therefore high time that all of this proved to be necessary to say goodbye to the EU and to Turkish or African dictators and to take matters into their own hands. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to close the Dutch borders for all asylum seekers and all immigrants from Islamic countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Fritsma and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u141	Unfortunately, the cabinet also continues to reward illegality. That's gotta stop. That's why I'm filing the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to stop rewarding illegality and therefore not to provide bed-bath-bath-bath care and not to maintain a children's pardon scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u142	What must be done is stated in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to criminalise illegality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u143	Mr. Chairman. We were also talking about Syria during the debate. Syria is safe and they go back to Syria massively, except Syrians in the Netherlands. They can stay in the assistance and in all social housing. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the temporary asylum permits of Syrians residing in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Fritsma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u144	And what I said: time is running out to withdraw these temporary permits, because after five years, the spoils are in everyone's house and they are allowed to stay in the Netherlands. More than 70,000 Syrians have been admitted to the Netherlands. Those withdrawals must be started immediately. The Secretary of State is hiding behind the notice, which is far too late, namely at the end of next year. But if it's for the benefit of strangers, a notice of office will be requested expeditiously. We see that, for example, in Afghanistan. So in favour of foreigners everything is accelerated, but in favour of Dutch people nothing can happen at all. Soon we will see that all Syrians will stay here again, unfortunately. If you let people stay here who don't need protection, people smugglers know where they can be right away. So the foreign policy remains ill, even under Rutte III. Mr President, I will conclude, in my final minute. With Rutte III a lot of precious time is lost in this way, because again nothing changes at all. Anyone from all over the world can still come here and demand asylum. The even more harmful partner and family migration is not discussed at all. In fact, nothing is being done about that. And we've talked about it. Illegals don't go back to their country of origin. They get bed, bath and bread. They're getting a pardon arrangement. And they are even so above the law that they can crack a building here up to 30 times, which proves the situation in Amsterdam. There's no action against that. That's laxity. The PVV regrets that this will continue, but will continue to fight against it. I can finish with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. The PVV is still of the opinion that the Minister of Justice and Security could have answered many more questions about the IS-terrorist who walked around here freely and came to De Balie. It was therefore a disappointing response for us from the Prime Minister in the first term, especially in view of the fact that last Friday the Minister called in the AD: I will continue to address this issue next week. Well, we've seen what that means: the Minister has said even less here than in the AD. Maybe the minister needs to get used to how it works a little bit. I will therefore turn back a little bit, to offer relief to the Minister. Let us make it a little bigger: in general terms, should the Minister be able to share information with us on the fight against terrorism? We simply need to be able to do our controlling work. I'm just gonna ask you a few more general questions. Can the Minister indicate the size of the problem of terrorists on the loose? How do they enter our country, but also the Schengen area and the whole of the EU? What are the grounds for staying? How often are there fake identity papers in play? If the minister doesn't know that, he can just say the same thing. And how large are the networks in which they operate? Specifically, last question: is this IS terrorist still in our country, yes or no? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u147	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Markuszower, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I have read the answers that have been sent to us in writing to the first-term questions and I have listened to the ministers today. One calls himself the Minister of Justice and Security and the other calls himself the Minister of Legal Protection. I do not know what they are doing, but justice, security and the protection of the right has little to do with it. It is rather the Minister of "Can't" and the Minister of "Won't." These two ministers say that they do not want to interfere with justice in the Netherlands. So they're okay with a raped stepfather being in jail for two years. They do not comment on the fact that a burglar who brutally robs an elderly woman in her house, finally beat up and then raped, has only four years in prison. It is the ministers who look away and continue to be chic, while the Netherlands becomes more unsafe every day. These ministers are well-casted. They look like all those idiots who occupy the Dutch criminal justice chain. They wear the same suits and speak the same hautaine language. The result is almost criminal, because dangerous criminals are not punished harshly enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have a question for Mr Markuszower. Is it true that the PVV has invoked that legal protection today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u150	The PVV. Can you explain that a little bit more?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u151	That is in practice Mr Wilders. You're not generally known as someone who has a lot of input. I believe that Mr Wilders has reported it today and hopes that these ministers and this Secretary of State will stand for it. His complaint is based on discrimination, in my opinion an article that you want to abolish; something like that. Is it true that on that basis you hope that legal protection will be there for you? Is it true that you have appealed to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u152	Hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u153	No, no, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u154	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u155	I asked a question, Mr President, and we agreed that we would get an answer. Is it true, Mr. Markuszower, that you have appealed to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u156	I...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u157	No, no. Your party, the PVV, through Mr Wilders, today calls for legal protection and hopes that the ministers will maintain it. You're standing here putting that away like it's no good. You're using very big terms and you're putting away judges. Are you using the legal protection or are you completely opposed to it and are you therefore abstaining from doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u158	That all sounds fantastic, but it's actually a really stupid story. I have nothing more to add. I'm not saying people can't use legal protection, am I? I'm saying the judges... I don't think you understand what I'm saying here. I say that in the Netherlands there are judges, prosecutors, a College of Attorneys General and ministers who do not monitor the harsh enough punishment of serious criminals. This does not mean that no Dutch citizen has or is entitled to legal protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u159	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u160	Am I not clear or do you not understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u161	No, no, no, this is the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u162	Mr President, this is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u163	No, no, this is just the second term. You've made your point. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u164	I hesitated because I do know we'll get another tirade. Nevertheless, as a CDA, I'd like to say the following. I ask Mr Markuszower to speak with a little more respect about judges and the cabinet. We may disagree about what they're doing, but I take it they're being put away so disrespectfully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u165	Respect must be earned. How can we respect a judge who only gives a raped stepfather of three girls two years in jail? That is what I am asking Mrs Van Toorenburg. I can't make it. I'd love to try. Ms. van Toorenburg, please explain to me how you can respect that judge. I just can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u166	I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg for a brief response, but this is the second term on the part of the Chamber. A second deadline is mainly intended to finalise your opinion on what you consider important and to submit motions, but not to ask other Members of Parliament again. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u167	It is not up to politics or me to judge one case, which I do not know the details of. I merely appeal to Mr Markuszower on the image he sets out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u168	I suggest you proceed, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u169	Dangerous criminals aren't punished hard enough and terrorists are out there. The TBs clinics, which the VVD is so lyrical about, are places where dangerous criminals go to bed with naive young Green Left traffickers, who are also absolutely incapable of dealing with the manipulations of these fucked-up psychopaths, and where all those dangerous criminals are constantly allowed to get engaged and use drugs, and can actually do whatever they want. Nice proposal, VVD. Pretend the TBs make society safer. What lies. What really works is throwing life-threatening criminals in jail for life. Victims do not receive satisfaction with the criminal law in force, but a brutal kick from these boardroom ministers. And society is not sufficiently protected. With being chic you become a minister in this country, but in the end it is not all that chic, because Dutch people are unnecessarily at risk because of this ostrich mentality. The PVV wants guarantees: guarantees that the Public Prosecutor's Office does not require too low penalties and guarantees that judges no longer impose such low penalties. That is why I have just tabled an initiative law: the law on high minimum penalties. In addition, we introduce a maximum life sentence for many sex and violence offences. These VVD and CDA Ministers of Justice and Security do not want to adequately protect the Netherlands and will not come up with laws that make the Netherlands safer. The PVV finds it unacceptable that murderers and rapists sometimes only have to go to jail for a few years. Some crimes are so serious that the unsub should never be allowed to enter society again. That is why I have tabled this initiative law. In addition, the PVV wants the College of Attorneys General, Advocates General, Chief Prosecutors and Judges dealing with criminal law to be directly elected by the Dutch people. The people have lost the right and must therefore be given that right back. That's why I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Public Prosecutor's Office too often requires too low penalties and that judges too often impose too low penalties;]] [[Whereas those responsible do not receive sufficient suffering, victims do not receive compensation and society is not adequately protected;]] [[Whereas elected judges, elected members of the College of Attorneys General, Advocates General and Chief Prosecutors will lead to a fairer society and greater security;]] [[Calls on the Government to establish as soon as possible a system of elected criminal justice officers responsible for crimes and members of the College of Attorney General, Advocates General and Chief Prosecutors;]] [[calls on the Government to organise as soon as possible four-yearly elections which coincide with the Provincial State elections in order to introduce this system of elected officials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u170	Madam President, thank you very much. I would also like to thank the three directors for their answers to the questions I have put myself, but also to the questions put by my fellow Members. I wanted to highlight a few points on the basis of my first-term contribution. First of all, the police. I have firmly stated that I believe that the absence of disease from the police should be reduced. It's 7% now and it just needs to go back to 5%. That is what the Netherlands deserves, and that is what the agents themselves deserve. After all, it also has a direct effect on the police force's workload. Structurally, it will result in an additional bet of 1,000 to 1,500 agents. We need to keep the Minister on that. That's why I'm filing a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that absenteeism is structurally far too high and therefore 1,000 to 1,500 agents are more ill at home than if absenteeism would be equal to the average in government;]] [[Whereas excessive absenteeism leads to an increasing workload and puts great pressure on the operational deployment of the police;]] [[considers that it is very important for all employees and managers, who play a crucial role in reducing absenteeism, that this issue be given full attention;]] [[noting that measures are already being taken to reduce absenteeism in the police, but that the Minister does not expect the short-term decline in absenteeism;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a targeted plan of action to reduce absenteeism within two years to a significantly lower rate and to pay particular attention to the necessary tools for police management in that plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Oosten, Van Dam, Van der Graaf and Den Boer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u171	In the first term, I also posted an interruption about this, because I found it rather offensive for the workplace. I believe that one of the reasons for absenteeism is the workload, which is caused by the cuts. May I explain the motion in this way, because otherwise I cannot give an opinion to my group, that where you write that attention is paid to all the relevant aspects, let me say by heart, this aspect is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u172	The motion is motivated by the concerns the VVD Group has about the workload within the force of agents. If you were to reduce the absenteeism from 7% to 5%, you would actually do something about it. How you read that, when it comes to your advice on the motion tabled by the VVD and several colleagues, I will leave it on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u173	Is that significant drop there, then that 2%? Well, at least I know where to look for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u174	With all due respect, it's written pretty clearly. The idea is that it should go back from 7% at least to the average of 5%. That leads to 1,500 or 1,000 fte, to use that term, of cops. There is no other way, if that is possible, and I hope the Minister will succeed, then this will also have an effect on the workload that some agents are now experiencing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u175	Mr Van Nispen, on the motion, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u176	On the motion, Mr. Chairman. I don't think anyone's for a high-level absenteeism, especially the police, because that's not good for the cops. We said something about it yesterday, too. I said myself that I think it is also due to the cuts that the VVD has poured out on the police since 2010. I will not repeat that, but I have challenged you to look in the mirror and to make an analysis of how the absenteeism of the police is so high. How far along are you with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u177	We had this discussion yesterday. At that time I also answered many questions from Mr Van Nispen, but also from other colleagues, precisely on this point. I have recognised from the outset that the reorganisation of the national police, of course, requires a considerable effort on the part of the agents in question, but that does not alter the fact that I am calling on the minister responsible for the national police to bring the absenteeism back to an acceptable percentage, and 7% is simply too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u178	And that discussion was held yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u179	The Minister may be responsible for the high absenteeism, but the VVD is responsible for the atmosphere, the cuts, the culture, which has allowed this to happen. It's a little hypocritical and a little easy to put forward such a proposal. I cannot say otherwise, Mr President, even though I see you looking questionable; I am very sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u180	Do you have any more motions, Mr. Van Oosten? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u181	I would like to make another motion of a very different nature, but before I do that, I would like to make two more comments on two other issues. The first is undermining. I have listened very carefully to the comments made by the two heads of government in this regard. To be honest, I think the answers given to the questions are a little bit cautious; I will share that with you. Not only by me, but also by several colleagues, very targeted examples have been provided, from those local partners that are still being talked about, who should contribute to tackling the undermining. I am confident that you will hear that again, when you speak to the mayors in question, but let us organise that it will be settled after that. Again, I've seen those kids and those 8, 9, 10-year-old girls out there in that district in Rotterdam. I really hate that we are not going to do something about it, because those children deserve a better future than they are confronted every day with the misery that is raging too much there. Tomorrow we will go to Eindhoven with the Chambers Committee and there will undoubtedly be some ideas again. Perhaps at a later date we can leave them with the rulers. Thank you for the answers given by the ministers, especially the Minister for Legal Protection, if I am not right, I am still hearing about crime prevention. I have tabled an amendment on this subject with Mr Van Dam of the CDA. It is important that we continue to support the prevention of crime. As far as sanctions are concerned, I would like to thank the Minister for Legal Protection, who is prepared to look closely at the system of TBs, in particular the idea put forward by Mr Kuiken and myself, in order to be able to assess at a later date whether TBs should not be imposed, so that the person concerned is not only punished, but also treated, and to prevent an untreated person from returning to society and committing atrocities there again. I will conclude with a motion for a resolution on the limitation period for the enforcement of penalties. I would like this article to be deleted from the Criminal Code. It runs counter to my sense of justice and that of many people in this Chamber and, in my opinion, outside. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is highly undesirable for convicted persons to avoid the enforcement of penalties by statute of limitations;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a proposal to put an end to the execution of Article 76 of the Criminal Code,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Oosten, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Hiddema, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Azarkan, Mr Krol and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors very much for their first-term response. I would also like to say a few words of thanks to the officials of the ministries, who were working late yesterday and even last night to answer the many questions we asked. I would therefore like to thank them on behalf of my group. Mr. Chairman. As I said yesterday, the VVD has been firmly committed over the past period to making the asylum flow to our country manageable. That is what we are going to continue with in the coming period, with the new coalition agreement in hand and in common. The VVD understands that people are concerned about the survival of the Netherlands as they and we know it. Appointments like working with Turkey. It is good to see these days that leaders from Europe are now also trying to pave the way in Africa. It wasn't realized today or tomorrow, but it will be necessary. Africa's future is one of the biggest global issues. The solution is not to move the problems to Europe or to think that you can stop them by yourself because of hollow rhetoric. It is good to see in the reply that the Secretary of State wants to go up together with the Foreign Ministers and for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The Secretary of State has a crucial role to play here. I was initially not satisfied with the Minister's first spending plans for foreign trade and development cooperation, as I indicated yesterday, but let us look ahead in particular. The cabinet wants to come up with an inventory of countries eligible for intensive migration cooperation. In addition, I expect a crucial role for this Secretary of State. I am very pleased with the Secretary of State's commitment to re-evaluate Syrian affairs on the basis of updated information, to see if there are any war criminals among them. And, Mr President, you know me: there is no need for a motion. Then there is the country policy on Syria. I welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking after my interruption that he would like to raise this issue with his European colleagues, because it requires the necessary preparation to allow people to actually return to Syria. I am saying this in the direction of 'K', because it is important to take steps, also in the interests of the security issues that we have discussed this morning. I look forward to the Secretary of State's proposals on getting rid of national headlines and intensifying foreign detention and departure. Finally, on economic migration policy. I am pleased that the Secretary of State shares my enthusiasm on this subject. I challenge the Secretary of State to think outside the beaten track and not just look at the promising arrangements we have at the moment. Sometimes it interferes with vision. When we look globally at countries like Canada and Australia, you see very nice developments there. If we are to reason economically, we must be more progressive. So I challenge the Secretary of State on this subject further. At least I notice that it has its heart and I am very happy about that. In short, my commitment on behalf of the VVD is aimed at a migration policy that can contribute to a society in which everyone feels really protected and gets all the opportunities. A Netherlands where everyone gets things done in a positive way and together. A Netherlands where especially what connects us is stronger than what divides us. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wish the Secretary of State and the two ministers all the strength and wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u183	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Madam President. I thank the rulers for their answers. In particular, I welcome the commitment of the Minister for Legal Protection to come forward with a letter before the summer on possibilities for a better approach to marriage coercion. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is also happy to discuss this. As far as we are concerned, it is not about interfering in religious matters but above all about ensuring that everyone is in charge of their own lives, i.e. human rights. I would also like to thank the Minister for looking at the perverse incentive in funding TBs, at least to check whether it is perverse or not and whether it might be better. With regard to legal aid, the Minister did not consider my motion on ZSM to be adequate, but I would point out that the Ministry itself has withdrawn a previously reserved budget whose consequences are seriously unclear to me. Hence the next motion, signed by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Azarkan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the ZSM approach often results in stakeholders entering into an OM offer without realising that it will give them a criminal record;]] [[Whereas the budget reserved for legal aid has been withdrawn;]] [[Considering that before the end of the year there will be clarity as to how ZSM legal assistance will be organised, but that there will be no budget to actually provide legal aid in ZSM cases;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber when and, if so, how ZSM legal assistance will be provided in 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Buitenweg, Van Nispen and Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u185	Then we'll talk about the award of points. The minister said he'd talk to the social lawyer. Well, that's of course very good, but what does the Minister have to offer the social lawyer? 'Cause for now, there's no extra money. The profits are sought in the search for alternatives. Does the Minister think that these alternatives could actually amount to some EUR 127 million? Is that the bet? Can the Minister provide a list of alternative measures, including financial data, which add up to EUR 127 million? Such a list seems very useful to me anyway for the conversation with the social lawyer. I'd like a commitment on this. In any case, we now have a system which has certain principles but which are not respected, which is unreasonable and makes the government unreliable. Hence the next motion, which was co-signed by Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuik. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Van der Meer Committee concludes that legal aid providers do not receive a reasonable contribution to the provision of legal aid to the underprivileged;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate in the short term how the points allocation under the current system of subsidised legal aid can be brought into line with the actual time spent by legal aid providers and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Buitenweg, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u186	It is good that we are looking again at how inviting the police is to victims of sexual violence. Together with my colleague, Mr Kuik, I ask the Minister to investigate whether victims themselves feel the threshold is too low and what they think the treatment of their reports has been. A further motion will follow in Mrs Kuik's term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u187	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, of course, thank you to the rulers. I argued in my first term that the migration policy of the new cabinet, which is increasingly responsible for the reception and protection of refugees in Africa, was built on quicksand. I do not have the impression that I have been given the Secretary of State for this statement in this debate, and of course I regret that, but I did not really expect it. I look forward to the debates we are still having and to try again to convince the Secretary of State of the correctness of my position. For now, I'd like to table two motions. The first one is about the children's pardon. The Secretary of State said that it is difficult to describe the term "beautiful" because everyone understands something else. I understand that very well. However, I, along with a number of colleagues, have the need to ask for a political signal from this Chamber on the implementation of the current regime by means of a motion. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Scheme is intended by the legislator to resolve the issue of the residence of children who have become rooted in the Netherlands, but have not yet obtained a valid residence permit or have lost a residence permit after a period of residence;]] [[Considering that 98% of applications for the Scheme for long-term children were rejected in the last year and that a strict interpretation of the Scheme is the basis for this;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the Scheme in a generous manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Ojik, Jasper van Dijk and Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u189	My second motion concerns the Dutch support for the Libyan Coast Guard. This makes the Secretary of State uncomfortable, as he himself said, but he did not want to take any consequences, at least in his first term. I'm going to call him to that with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that migrants returned to Libya by the Libyan Coast Guard are systematically subjected to inhumane detention, torture or even slavery;]] [[calls on the Government to suspend financial and operational support to the Libyan Coast Guard until guarantees have been obtained that persons captured or reduced by the Libyan Coast Guard are no longer exposed to human rights violations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you. Then Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u191	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a word of thanks to the three rulers for their reply. Let me also say a word of thanks in the direction of official support. There's a whole story in the budget that changes V and J. We didn't talk about that these days, but if the method of replying and also the 74 pages answer to all the questions we found on our doormat this morning is an example of how V and J are changing, then you can be happy with that official support. Oh, I hear from the rulers that it has to be "JenV changes." Yes, I think I'm changing a little less quickly than your ministry is changing. Let's just leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. I've got three motions. I would like to say one thing in advance. This morning we may have started a little unhappy, but what is the intention of this story? I believe that we in this Chamber have a democratic role to play in relation to the administration of the police. The authority lies largely in the country, with municipal councils and more such institutions, but here in the Chamber it is about the management of the police. If we look at the report of the Chicken Committee and otherwise, there is quite a lot of criticism of the role played by the Chamber in the past. I therefore believe that I should do my job here by asking the questions on that point, and that I should be sufficiently informed. I do not want to take that too seriously, but it is also an important point for the CDA, namely the division of police forces across the country. For us it is very important that there is enough police, also in Groningen, Friesland, East Netherlands and in all other places where the police density is much lower than here in the city. That's why I'm coming up with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the response times in certain regions such as the North and East Netherlands still differ negatively from the national (target) average;]] [[Considering the short-term availability of 100 million for the police, which should also strengthen the basic teams in the regions;]] [[noting that the Minister of JenV has indicated that reports in the northern media on the distribution of this additional strength are premature;]] [[Invites the Government to inform the Chamber of the current distribution of operational strength among the 10 regional units in the Police progress letter of December 2017 as well as the distribution of additional capacity available to the base teams among the 10 regional units,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Van der Graaf and Arno Rutte.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u192	My second motion concerns the willingness to report. I would draw the comparison with the ZSM process, where a very different way of dealing with criminal offences has taken place without any additional budget or money being spent, at least in the personal sense. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been a decline in the willingness to report for a long time;]] [[Whereas the distance between police and citizens has increased in recent years;]] [[Whereas it is very important that victims of criminal offences should be able to make a simple declaration;]] [[Whereas making an Internet declaration is not an easy way for every Dutch person;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, within existing budgetary frameworks, the service concept of the police with regard to the recording of declarations is directed towards the direct recording of declarations, appropriate to the individual needs and capabilities of providers, if necessary at home with providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Dam, Mr Bishop, Mr Krol, Mr Azarkan and Mr Kuik.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u193	Finally. Both the debate on the I and M budget yesterday and the debate here today and yesterday on JenV were concerned with road safety, especially the mobile phone. Perhaps to curb all of us impatience to use that thing behind the wheel, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that using the mobile phone behind the wheel, e.g. by sending messages, is increasing and is a danger to road safety;]] [[Whereas during the debate on the budget of I and M, a motion was adopted concerning the definition of behind-the-storey appendecides as "reckless behaviour" in the context of the assessment of road accidents;]] [[Whereas, in addition to preventive measures, penalty measurement in which recidivism can play a role can contribute to reducing smartphone use behind the wheel;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2014 on the implementation of the Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and in particular the Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Law of ……]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the use of the mobile phone behind the wheel is regarded as "badger fact' and is included in criminal law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam and Von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u194	I have a brief question about the first motion. I have intended myself, and it has been discussed here in the past, that we should no longer interfere with the police in detail. This was mainly about the top priorities we stacked. Now I read in the first motion that we should almost interfere with the distribution of capacity. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u195	No, you're not. I am in favour of not talking too much about priorities in the Chamber, not saying: the police must do this, the police must do it. That is a matter of authority that should generally be placed with the mayor and the prosecutor who is the authority over it. What is at issue here is a management issue. I don't want to know how many neighborhood agents or whatever are in Unit A, B or C, I don't want to know how that's distributed. I am concerned about the distribution of capacity between the ten regional units in the country. I do think that this is an aspect that should be addressed here. These are questions on the broad lines between the region and the city, and one region and the other region. I'd like to limit myself to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u196	I have a brief question about the motion that Mr Van Dam was the last to propose, the motion on reckless driving or at least the use of smartphones. In an interrupting debate with the Minister of Justice and Security, I received an answer: yes, the objective is to criminalise reckless driving. My question to Mr Van Dam is how that relates to the appeal he makes in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u197	I have been in touch with the participants in yesterday's debate. The concept of "reckless driving" in the Road Traffic Act is a concept contained in Article 6 of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u198	This was discussed at length yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u199	Yeah, but repetition is sometimes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u200	Well, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u201	No? I'll be very brief. Yesterday's proposal is about when the blow fell. Then it's playing. It is also quite right that that should play. My proposal looks forward if the blow has not yet occurred, so to bring about a change of behavior in how people behave in traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u202	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u203	Then through you both I have a very short question to the Minister. Maybe in his second term, the Minister can indicate...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u204	Yeah, of course he's gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u205	... how one relates to the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u206	The Minister must give an opinion on the motion. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering the questions. I would also like to thank the officials who gave the answers last night and, as we know, were up early this morning to ensure that this new team gets here properly. Mr. Chairman. We believe in dualism. I think we showed that this morning. We shall continue to do so in the coming years. I know that there are fine subjects in the coalition agreement, but we will be breathing in the neck of the cabinet every day to ensure that what we want is carried out. Mr. Chairman. I zoom in on two parts. The first is undermining. We understand that the law is not laid down as some sort of package in the Chamber, but that we are going to see what we can bring forward, what we need to incorporate into something and what we still need to deal with in addition. That's fine. I think it is good to look at the creative possibilities that are already being exploited in the country. Can I take a good example, which is actually quite recent? The Brabant police want money from the dumpers of drug waste and want to join the criminal proceedings as a disadvantaged party. That's a very interesting case. I am very curious to see what the judge, who comes up with the ruling on 25 January, will think of that. Can this analysis also be taken into account? Is that possible? If not, what can we do? I thought it was very creative, and I think we can use it to pass a blow. Mr. Chairman. I understand that there will be a directive on money laundering. That's fine. We'll take a critical look at it. The minister also expressed concern about the bitcoins. Someone may not be allowed to exchange more than 15,000, but who will see to it? Then who reports an unusual transaction? That stays a little shady for me. In Britain, a whole process is being developed, including by the business community, for a crowdfunding system if a company does not receive funding from the bank. I think that's very dangerous. I am already heavily lobbied to get this done in the Netherlands. I'm just gonna open that up here. The first thing I said was, don't ever! But maybe I'm too scared and it doesn't make any sense. I'd love to hear that, but at least I'd like to give it to the rulers that I'm worried about it. When it comes to cyber, asylum and prostitution and trafficking in human beings, I can only refer to what I said at the beginning: we are following you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u208	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u209	It is not the right of the strongest, but everyone is entitled to the right. Access to justice is a foundation of our rule of law. That's what my first motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several investigations have shown that there are different possibilities for reviewing the system of subsidised legal aid;]] [[points out that the quality of the sustainable system for access to justice should be paramount;]] [[calls on the Government to abandon the principle that the system of subsidised legal aid must, in any event, fit within a pre-established lower budgetary framework,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2017 money remains in the context of mediation in criminal law, as its roll-out has been delayed for five months;]] [[Considers that the practice of mediation in criminal matters as implemented in 2017 should continue;]] [[Calls on the Government to take the funds already allocated to mediation in criminal matters by the end of 2017 to the year 2018 and to spend them there,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-58]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Nispen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u210	You may think: what is being proposed here is perfectly logical, because money left behind in mediation in criminal law can be used to fill a gap. That's right. It makes perfect sense, but I just got the answer: it can't be. Well, that's like "that doesn't allow the rules." If we want it to be possible with each other, we must also look at how we can solve the problem. That really is an urgent appeal to the Minister on this particular point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to experiment with regulated weed cultivation;]] [[Whereas dozens of municipalities wishing to experiment with regulated pot growing fear that they will not have enough room to develop their own, local and regional variants;]] [[Considers that varied experiments can contribute better to a successful approach to soft drugs (safety) risks and crime than a single uniform experiment;]] [[calls on the government not to base itself on one single experiment on regulated weed cultivation, but rather to introduce diversity into the experiments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that police officers have a physical and mental appeal;]] [[noting that by linking the age of AOW to life expectancy, police personnel may retire at a later date;]] [[calls on the government to use a lower retirement age for police officers in the collective bargaining process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the importance of access to an independent judicial authority in a rule of law, it is not acceptable, in specific cases, to declare an (higher) action inadmissible for failure to pay registry law;]] [[Invites the Government, in the interests of legal certainty, to include in the Act that non-payment of the Registry Law does not in all cases lead to inadmissibility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Kikken and Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen and Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-61]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen, Buitenweg and Kikken. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u211	For the sake of clarity, this motion is really about the people with the lowest incomes. You can't ask them for a clerk's order. Otherwise, you'll run counter to access to justice. I asked a question about the Registry law for small money claims of €500, in which an SME has to pay €470 to the Registry. That's not in proportion. You're not gonna do that, because the risks are too great. I will not table a motion on this, but I would like to put a question to the Minister. I would like the Minister to examine how this can be done better, in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and trade in general. Everyone has the right to rights in the interests of trust and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u212	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u213	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, the first of which concerns Libya. The government says that we are not sending refugees back to Libya, because it is clear that that country is unsafe. There's chaos, there's misery. Yet the European Union's support for the Libyan Coast Guard is controversial, because that coast guard is indeed sending refugees back to Libya. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Libya is not a safe country;]] [[calls on the Government to avoid any accomplice in sending refugees back to Libya,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u214	Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan is also unsafe. This is said by several organisations: the United Nations, Amnesty. Mr Groothuizen reminded me yesterday that Germany would have moved back to sending Afghans back to Afghanistan. I checked that out. This is particularly about criminal Afghans, and I think that is quite an addition to be taken into account. I think it is obvious that sending Afghans back is now irresponsible. The Government recognizes this implicitly by bringing forward the assessment, that message of office. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Afghanistan is very unsafe due to war and attacks;]] [[Whereas the Ministry of Justice and Security has requested a new notice of office;]] [[believes that until then it is irresponsible to force people to go to Afghanistan;]] [[calls on the Government to publish the new notice of office in order to establish a decision and departure Moratorium for Afghanistan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u215	Mr. Chairman. On the children's pardon, Mr Van Ojik has tabled a fine motion which I have co-signed. Finally, the good news. Secretary of State Harbers has promised to involve my plan for a fairer distribution of refugees in his own flexible reception plan. I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u216	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I call Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u217	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for answering all the questions by the rulers. Thanks also to the support for the large package of paper that we found this morning. Mr President, it is clear that there will be a lot coming towards the Chamber in the coming months. D66 will pay close attention to the balance sheet in these proposals. As the Minister of Justice rightly pointed out this morning, the rule of law is the domain of the art of finding balance. Access to justice is very important for D66. Legal aid plays a very important role in this. I think everyone agrees on that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several reports have already been published on the revision of the subsidised legal aid scheme;]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement provides that the system of legal aid is to be reviewed along the lines of the report of the Wolfsen Committee and the report of the Van der Meer Committee;]] [[Whereas, in accordance with the government agreement, the forthcoming cabinet period is chosen for revision within the existing budgetary frameworks;]] [[Whereas the revision of the system of subsidised legal aid can play an important role in modernising and facilitating citizens' access to justice;]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with the Dutch Bar Association, the Legal Service and the Legal Assistance Board, legal aid insurers, the Judicial Board, the Public Prosecutor's Office and other relevant parties, to come up with a policy vision on the main aspects of the revision of the system of subsidised legal aid, ensuring access to justice, and to send this vision to the Chamber around the summer recess of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van Dam and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u218	I wonder what purpose this motion serves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u219	This motion should emphasise that the Court attaches great importance to access to justice and that legal aid plays a crucial role in it. This is in order to highlight the fact that the Minister attaches the greatest importance to this when he comes to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u220	The Minister had already recognized and underlined this. In conclusion, I note that the point system is still going down and 127 million is being cut. So again, what purpose does this motion serve?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u221	That is that the Chamber makes a very clear statement on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u222	A little along the same lines: I'm trying to understand how you think this is different from what the minister was already planning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u223	I have heard the Minister say very good things, but I think it is very important for the Chamber to give its opinion, very emphatically, on this very important point. You have asked a lot of questions about this and you are on the interrupting microphone again. I simply think it is important that the Court makes it crystal clear that this is crucial for the implementation of the new legal aid system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u224	Okay, so I understand that this motion is mainly intended to confirm once again the point contained in the coalition agreement by all the parliamentarians here, at least those of those four parties. Because for the rest, there really is nothing new in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u225	No. Then Mrs Buitenweg didn't listen properly. The motion is for the Court to state that access is crucial in the revision of the legal aid system and that the Minister must consult with all parties in order to establish a system to ensure such access.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u226	This is a bit of a pubess. This is just a pubic. This is a motion that says nothing more than what we all know, namely that legal aid, access to justice for people on low incomes, is important, so that those seeking justice are not the victims. How D66 shows up here. Can I conclude from this that you are not going to support the motion that the SP has just tabled and which simply says "go and talk to everyone, but at least make sure that it is not established in advance that the aim is to cut costs"? Is that the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u227	I think we discussed this in detail yesterday. Review must take place within the budgetary framework. I explained to you at the time that I think it is very unwise to say in advance that we are going to add a bag of money and that it is much more sensible to repeat everything that I explained yesterday, in order to steer a number of crucial reforms, including with regard to the perverse incentives in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u228	Finally, Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u229	No, D66 does exactly the opposite. D66 now says: we are going to cut back on it and then I come up with a motion in which I say that I think it is very important. Beautiful words, no deeds. Too bad we lost D66 as guardian of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u230	In my view, Mr Van Nispen draws conclusions which are not based on anything. I note, therefore, that in his story on legal aid he is constantly ignoring the facts, including that people with small grants can simply apply for special assistance for registry law. I've never heard of Mr. Van Nispen. I think Mr. Van Nispen himself is taking a walk with the truth and is now trying to rub it on me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u231	Then Mr Van Nispen feels compelled to give a short response. Then I will go to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u232	Mr Groothuizen must interrupt me if he hears me say something that is not right and not if I no longer have the opportunity to respond with some false and false accusation. That's not how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u233	That's why I'm giving you the opportunity to respond. Then Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u234	I too stand here blinking and blinking. I don't understand the whole motion. You have the opportunity to do something about the accessibility of the justice system for people with a small scholarship. All kinds of proposals are made by colleagues. You gave a great interview in your election campaign, in which you said how important you think it is. You do not support any initiative and now you come up with hollow phrases. You feed cynicism into politics and mistrust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u235	I've just missed the question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u236	Let me repeat my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u237	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u238	Do you agree with me that this will increase cynicism in politics and thus lower confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u239	No. Mr President, I shall continue my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u240	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u241	Punishment is an essential part of the criminal law enforcement of our legal system. If we really want to make the Netherlands safer, we must, above all, prevent people from returning to prison. Early work on resocialisation is therefore essential. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are choices for the new cabinet when it comes to the direction of the sanction execution to be followed;]] [[Whereas the coalition agreement states that the implementation of sanctions and measures will strengthen the position of re-socialization and parole;]] [[Whereas education, work and guidance during detention contribute to a promising return and reduce the risk of recurrence;]] [[Whereas at present, parole is often only shown during the detention phase;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for reintegration policy in all p.i.Once organized in such a way that all inmates immediately upon entry into the p.i. are screened on the five basic conditions and also provide the probation organisations with a structural advisory role in this screening as advised by the Criminal and Youth Protection Board in the report Van detaineren to reintegrate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Groothuizen, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u242	I have a brief question on this motion. Can Mr Groothuizen explain to me what the relationship is between the probation and the administration of the prison in question? How do they relate to each other? I'm gonna be very strict about this. You have the warden of the prison and you have the parole officer. Who's the boss?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u243	Mr. Groothuizen, who's the boss?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u244	I suppose the boss of the parole officer is just the boss of the parole board, but I think that's more of a question for the minister. But the point is that you're actually already looking at the moment someone enters the prison or those crucial conditions for the moment someone comes out of it are properly filled out. So, frankly, I don't see such a mix of personnel policy in that. But maybe I'm missing something. Then I'd like to hear the Minister's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u245	Once again, I would ask that this question be referred specifically to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u246	Let's go. Let's go. Let's go, let's Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u247	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the issue of asylum and migration. It is good that the Secretary of State is working on the flexible asylum system. I hope that he will speed this up, especially since the flexible asylum chain programme has already been launched. It is very good that he is also going to take the measures that can be taken. If so, I hope he will send the information to the Chamber as soon as possible. An essential part of law enforcement and application is that we protect vulnerable people. Converted Christians and homosexual asylum seekers seeking protection in the Netherlands, as far as I am concerned, form such vulnerable groups. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we handle their asylum applications carefully. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important that all applications for asylum are handled with great care;]] [[Whereas the assessment of the credibility of converted Christians and of the sexual orientation of asylum seekers who base their fear of persecution on them should be surrounded by sufficient safeguards;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and present proposals to improve the assessment of the credibility of converts and the sexual orientation of asylum seekers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen, Mr Azmani, Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was politely waiting for the floor. And I'm not in the car, am I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u249	Well, there is also a lot of complaining about the use of mobile phones in the room. But continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u250	We're not gonna get distracted. I want to ask you a question about the children's pardon. A fine motion has been tabled by Mr Van Ojik and myself. I hope, of course, that you will support it. A while back, there was the issue of that Armenian mother with her two children. They were here in the Netherlands for nine years. Your party leader Alexander Pechtold said: yes, that is painful, those children should just stay here. Do you still think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u251	I have to tell you, I don't remember that quote. For the rest, I do not know the file and I do not think it would be very appropriate if I, as a Member of Parliament, were to deal with individual cases. I haven't been able to look into that file. In my previous position, I often dealt with all kinds of individual matters. On that basis, I know that you only have to say something about individual matters if you have a full picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u252	I just saw the message on my cell phone so I looked at it and said that these children can stay in a familiar environment in the Netherlands. The predecessor of this Secretary of State, Secretary of State Dijkhoff said: no, they just have to go back to Armenia. Your party leader said about these individual cases: that is painful and should not really happen. I ask: do you still agree with your party leader, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u253	This kind of thing is always poignant. It's about children, it's about people who have to go back to their country because a judge has judged it that way, but of course they're not waiting for it at all. I fully understand that, and these are poignant cases. I have just told you that I cannot comment on an individual case because I simply do not know that file. You're keeping a message for me that I haven't been able to read yet. If that's what you're saying, it's very good news for those kids and I'm glad to hear it. And for the rest, I'm gonna follow the news myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u254	The last motion concerns groups which need to be looked at carefully. You rightly mention two vulnerable groups. Can I understand the motion in such a way that it is intended that this applies to people who adhere to a minority religion and are therefore in danger? Does it also apply to Rohingya Muslims, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u255	I've never thought about that before. I get the question. We're talking about converted Christians now. I can honestly and logically imagine nothing but that this also applies to other people who have been converted and are therefore in trouble. The same system should be used for this. I have to tell you, I've never heard of a case like this before. We have been approached by all kinds of organisations about homosexual asylum seekers. I've been approached by organizations about converted Christians. This case has never been submitted to me, but I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u256	Okay, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u257	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the directors and indeed to the officials for the hard work and the response. It is good to see that the motions tabled by my colleague, Mr Groothuizen, have revived the left-wing cooperation. That's always good. A good cabinet and a good coalition also need a good opposition. Let cooperation go well between all of us in the near future, so that we can protect the rule of law here, I say to Mr Van Nispen. D66 will continue to be a guardian of the rule of law. He doesn't have to worry about that at all, even if we disagree. On terror: thank you to the Minister for the commitment, or at least the confirmation of my concern, that the local approach remains an important priority in tackling terrorism. This is part of an effective approach to terrorism, following both preventive and repressive approaches. In doing so, D66 will always seek a good balance between security and freedom through effective measures without excessive symbolic content, as we have seen in previous periods. In the field of cyber security, I can only be very satisfied with the commitment of the cabinet. I think it's even historic that cybersecurity has been declared a top priority of the ministry. I think that's right, too. It has been an underrated subject for years, but it is now a subject in which we must avoid fragmentation. I have also heard the Minister say that he therefore wants to make cooperation between the various ministries concerned as structural as possible and that it is not just a one-off consultation between all those involved. I think that's very good. I would once again like to give him the suggestion that the VWS ministry should also be involved. I say that because in the ransomware attack this summer, the hospitals in particular were hit the hardest. There were even patients who couldn't get chemotherapy. Those are really important consequences that you should think about. I hope that is possible. Thank you also for leaving the Chamber with the opinion on the amendment I tabled together with Mrs Kuik on the open source encryption projects. Finally, I shall table one motion. Mr Azmani put in zero, but I myself will then submit one. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the high strategic and societal importance of cybersecurity calls for an ambitious commitment to cybersecurity research;]] [[Whereas there is a strong need for sufficient expertise in cybersecurity in business, government and science;]] [[Whereas a cybersecurity institute can bring together both basic and applied research, as well as public and private resources;]] [[noting the government's efforts to pool knowledge and resources in cybersecurity research;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of setting up a cybersecurity research institute,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Arno Rutte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u258	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u259	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u260	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. Many have followed this debate with interest to see how you did it. I think it's too early to judge, because we're still going into a lot of subjects and the real files have yet to come. But we got off to a good start. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the directors for accepting some of the amendments we have tabled, including the amendment on mediation. We would have liked a little more, but sometimes you have to settle for a little less. But of course, we're gonna fight. Two is the amendment just mentioned by Mr Verhoeven on open source encryption. I would also like to thank the Minister for his commitment to evaluate TBs after two years. Mr. Chairman. I am still tabling a motion, and I would like to explain that. It is about the question, and I have an answer to it; I think Minister Grapperhaus is going to tell me how we are dealing with the investigation into the report of sex crimes, sexual violence. It is good, in itself, for the research to be carried out, but we very much want the experiences of the victims, the inconvenience they have felt, to be taken into account. It's not just the stuff the media get, it's also the mails we get now; young girls who are sent away and only taken care of by the GGD and who are not allowed to report on repeated occasions, even if the time limit for reflection is already over and even if there are multiple victims. It's also the stories about the treatment. You have to insist on filing a report. I also hear there are big differences between the corps. That's why I want this looked at specifically. I am now tabling a motion, but I hope that there will be a good commitment and then I can always arrest her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas victims of sex crimes often experience a threshold to report;]] [[Whereas recent research has shown that some of the victims have experienced their contact with the police as negative;]] [[Considering that the Minister is considering ways of further promoting reporting capacity;]] [[calls on the government to make an explicit assessment of the experiences of victims themselves and regional differences in this study;]] [[calls on the cabinet to adopt a standard approach so that the treatment of victims of sexual violence can be improved as far as possible;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuik and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u261	Mr. Chairman. That's what I'm done with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u262	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u263	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Yesterday, I concluded my speech by saying that there is a very great responsibility on these rulers when it comes to the work of justice and justice, and thus also of serving peace in society. Today, all three of them have indicated in their own words how they intend to implement this. I look forward to that with confidence and I look forward to working together. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their detailed reply, both in writing and orally, here in the Chamber today. I would also like to thank them for the positive appreciation of the amendments I have tabled together with colleagues, including on volunteering among prisoners in order to improve the return to society and on mental support in the police. It is good to hear that work is being done to give this a structural place within the corps. I thank the Minister for his answers on the experiments with the District Court. I can tell you from his answers that he sees this as an opportunity to renew justice and to lower thresholds for people in order to achieve their rights. He has indicated that he wants to give room within the existing legislation and, if necessary, bring forward a legislative proposal to allow for the experiments that need to be carried out by inserting an experimental clause. I'd like to see that. Thank you to the Secretary of State for his commitment to tackling trafficking in human beings and illegal prostitution. I am confident that he will see the problem and I look forward to the plan that is coming soon. Then we'd like to talk about it. Mr. Chairman. Then the police. This morning we were uncomfortablely surprised by reports in the newspaper that hundreds of agents have to be handed in in the North and East Netherlands. This leads to a lot of unrest. The Minister indicated this morning that the reports are premature, but that does not remove the unrest. In the motion that I tabled today with Mr Van Dam and Mr Rutte, we ask the Minister to inform us in December about the distribution of current capacity between the regions, but also about the additional capacity, which we can use with the additional resources from the government agreement. The further plans will certainly take into account the importance of police strength in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u264	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his kind answers. I'm gonna go over a couple of points briefly. I had a motion in preparation on legal aid and advice on the intention to reject it and to ask for sufficient time to determine the point of view of the lawyer. I understand from the Secretary of State that he takes these concerns seriously and brings proposals to the Chamber for this. So that motion is no longer necessary. As far as the converts and the lbt's are concerned, I understand that the Secretary of State is going to look into how the evaluation can be improved in the procedure and that the recommendations of the WODC, if they result, will also be taken into account. The Plaisier Committee is also involved in this. We have tabled a motion as a coalition to emphasise that once again. So that motion is just going to be put to the vote. Finally, as far as Afghanistan is concerned, I have just looked at what the UNHCR, the UN refugee organisation, has said. I quote that in Dutch: "The UNHCR is not in favour of returning refugees to Afghanistan given the ongoing conflict and given the lack of absorption capacity." That is the line I have found on the assessment of the situation in Afghanistan at the moment. I'll give him the Secretary of State. I heard his reaction. I'd like to hear his reaction to this quote. That's it, Mr. Chairman. I wish the Secretary of State much wisdom in the implementation of the many and fine plans contained in the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u266	We share Mr Voordewind's concerns about returning to Afghanistan, especially given lessons from the past. But what do you expect the cabinet, at least as a coalition partner, to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u267	I didn't give this quote to the Secretary of State for nothing. I await the second term of the Secretary of State on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u268	But the conclusion is already there. The Secretary of State says he's not going to announce a moratorium, which is the request. Are you okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u269	Again, I asked a question and put a quote to the Secretary of State. I like it when the Secretary of State gets a chance to respond to that. So I'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u270	That's what we're gonna wait and see. We hope, of course, that you will support our motion for a moratorium. I had another question: the question I also asked Mr Grothuizen about the Armenian mother's children who are now allowed to remain in a familiar environment. Your party also expressed concern about this when it played. Can you tell us how you would like this case to be considered in the light of the child's pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u271	I know the case. I have also just read, when Mr Van Dijk raised this matter here, that the children can be taken back into a familiar environment. That's profit. I knew how difficult the situation was. However, I am not going to comment on how things are going. We do a lot of behind-the-scenes work for this, but not for the scenes, especially in the interests of those children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u272	Finally, Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u273	The former Secretary of State has always said that these children must be reunited with their mother and preferably in Armenia. May I assume that you are doing your best behind the scenes to ensure that they are allowed to stay in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u274	If I said that, I wouldn't react to things behind the scenes. I greatly appreciate the SP Group's commitment to individual cases. I have known this commitment for many years, including from Mr Gesthuizen. I think we are best served by doing this behind the scenes when it comes to individual cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u275	Thank you. Oh, Mr Fritsma also had a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u276	Mr President, Parliament must of course be able to exercise its supervisory role. If Mr Voordewind of a government party says that everything is being arranged behind the scenes, I cannot, of course, control it. What exactly is being arranged behind the scenes? What the hell is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u277	The Chamber is right to discuss policy matters with this cabinet. In doing so, we have a controlling effect. However, individual MPs also have the right to submit discretionary requests to the State Secretary. But I am not going to make any public statements about that, because that would limit the scope and possibilities of the Secretary of State to say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u278	So this is very bad. Individual MPs are going to play a little IND, like: who is allowed to stay and who is not allowed to stay? They go to the Secretary of State with individual cases to put pressure on people to stay. What kind of weird backroom politics is this? You are simply keeping the opposition and the Chamber completely out of your own foreign policy, which you are setting up with this Secretary of State. You can't do that! Mr President, through you, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to now give openness to this matter in writing and to indicate what is happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u279	Thank you. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u280	'Cause I want to be able to do my controlling job. And in addition, Mr President, this is precisely the reason why asylum seekers' families who have been processed never leave, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u281	You've made your point, Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u282	Yes, but that's important to report, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u283	Yes, very important. I give the floor to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u284	These are people who have been told by a judge that they have to leave, and that does not happen because you, I mean people like Mr Voordewind, are going to sit down with the Secretary of State that you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u285	I call Mr Voordewind. No, Mr Fritsma, Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u286	That's exactly the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u287	Thank you, you've made your point. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u288	Yeah, but that's very important, because things just happen here that nobody can control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u289	No, no, no! I call Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u290	If Mr Fritsma objects to the discretion of this Secretary of State, he can make a point about that. He can table a motion on that. I didn't see that motion. So far, the Chamber has been very unanimous on the powers of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State will see to that. If people, refugees, fall between shores and ships and there are distressing situations, then he has the opportunity to say yes or no. This is even given openness once a year. If you do not agree, you must enter into the discussion with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u291	I shall now turn to Mr Krol. He speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u292	Madam President. I would like to thank the Ministers and the Secretary of State for their comprehensive written answers. Thank you also to the officials who apparently worked overtime last night. The answer to the question of a possible European criminal code is a matter for our concern for the time being. At the same time, I hope that the Chamber will be informed of this in the event of any new developments. I therefore expect the cabinet to do everything in its power to stop giving it away to Europe. Thanks for the answer on young children of jihadists. The way these young children are taken care of gives us confidence in a careful approach. The Minister undertakes to inform the Chamber before Christmas about the criminal approach to age discrimination. My group looks forward to the position with great interest. 50PLUS welcomes the investigation into the mandatory age dismissal of judges and judges alternates. Today, however, we would like to hear when we can expect these results. In the written answer to our questions, the Minister replied that the cabinet would fill in the public order concept more concretely in order to better address anti-democratic organisations. In particular, he mentions extremist organisations that are structuralally inciting violence or spreading hatred. I wonder: isn't one inciting violence or hatred enough to deal with lick-on-piece policies? How do we stop organizations that stir up anti-democratic sentiments? Finally, I come to the boas and municipal enforcement. I read that the Minister offers every opportunity for his own enforcement policies and priorities. And yes, we understand that every municipality knows its own problems in a municipality without parking problems, you don't have to put in parking guards but that wasn't our point. Our point is: who controls the maintenance of public order as a whole? How do we prevent a different approach in one municipality than in the other municipality, for example a neighbouring municipality? The Minister's response gives the impression that no direction would be needed. The 50PLUS group really does not think so. When transferring care tasks to the municipalities we see and see a similar problem. It depends on the municipality in which you live which care is available. We should not, and we would not want to, in this area. That is why I would like an additional response from the Minister. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u293	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u294	Madam President. Thank you to the rulers for the answer. It is certainly not an unnecessary luxury to have three rulers, as we have noticed by the multitude of subjects that came along today and yesterday. I would just like to make two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of alcohol controls has been halved in three years;]] [[considers that the protection of human lives requires a strict approach to alcohol consumption in traffic;]] [[calls on the Government to promote high priority to be given to tackling alcohol-induced driving and to bring its urgency to the attention of the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u295	Mr. Chairman. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a credible drug policy requires enforcement of the criteria set;]] [[Whereas the resident criterion was added to the AHOJ GI criteria five years ago but is not yet maintained in all municipalities;]] [[noting that the intention is to introduce, within six months, a regime for experiments on regulated growing of weed;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain all the criteria laid down and in any case not to accept that municipalities which do not apply and effectively maintain all the criteria will experiment with regulated weed cultivation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u297	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop, also on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u298	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the rulers for answering the questions. It was greatly appreciated. We would like to await further matters relating to asylum procedures and everything related to them. There are some things in the pipeline. In the police field, I would like to confine myself to one motion. There was a little discussion between the minister and me about the ratio of one police officer to 5,000 inhabitants. My question to the Minister was whether this could be used as a minimum. At that time, the Minister reported that it was not in the law, but that this would be the case if it were in the law that at least one district agent should be employed per 5,000 inhabitants. Well, that is exactly the wording in the article of the law. We are here to help the Minister. My motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the years to come, priority has been given to the introduction of the national police force and that, as a result, not all municipalities are actually the number of district agents to which the law entitles;]] [[Considering that the Police Act 2012 explicitly states in Articles 1 and 38a on the district agent that he "is available for the benefit of a municipality for the performance of the police task' and that "at least one district agent is employed per 5,000 inhabitants';]] [[considers, therefore, that there is a legal obligation to have at least one district agent for every 5,000 inhabitants and that municipalities are entitled to do so;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities actually have access in practice to the legally guaranteed district agents and to inform the Chamber before 1 April 2018 how the legal standard is maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop, Mr Helder, Mr Chicken, Mr Krol, Mr Hiddema and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u299	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u300	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u301	Mr President, thank you. I too thank the rulers for their reply. I would also like to thank the officials who have worked hard to close 74 sides to answers. I am not satisfied with all the answers, which is why I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to experiment with local judges who regularly sit in the neighborhood, require a small amount of registry costs and focus on legal simple cases;]] [[calls on the government to strive for as much diversity as possible in the appointment of district judges to ensure that local judges reflect society as best as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Disputes Commission assists consumers and businesses in complaints and disputes in a wide range of areas, including care;]] [[noting that the Disputes Commission is largely financed by the business community itself and to a small extent by the public authorities;]] [[Considers that the Disputes Committee is a low-threshold route and that more expensive court cases should be brought back if this alternative procedure were to disappear;]] [[calls on the Government not to reduce its contribution to The Disputes Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to bring the Legal Assistance Council and the Legal Loket together legally in order to "more streamline first-line assistance";]] [[calls on the Government to take a zero measurement of a number of relevant indicators for the merger of the Legal Assistance Council and the Legal Loket and to take new measurements after the merger to assess the effects of the merger,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that at the beginning of this month the black book "Assistence colleague" was presented to the Chief Constable, containing stories about discrimination within the police organisation;]] [[noting that the Chief Constable and the Minister have reacted shockedly to the black book and strongly opposed discrimination;]] [[noting that the Minister has said that there are more instruments to be devised to change culture in the police;]] [[calls on the Government to identify additional instruments to change the culture of the police and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-73]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Nispen and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-74]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-75]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u302	There is one thing left for me to put right, Mr President. In my interruption I used the word 'crocodile tears' with Mr Voordewind, who addressed me. That's not neat. Mr Voordewind has always fought in recent years as a Member of Parliament for a wider children's pardon. It didn't work out, but it's not his fault. He's done an excellent job, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u303	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Hiddema, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u304	Mr. Chairman. I've got four motions. I announced it yesterday, so there is no need for an explanation in advance. They were framed yesterday. I have to say that I think that the length of the motions will also help to clarify their scope, so I will go a long way. Motion 1 deals with the introduction of the principle of legality, which I think makes sense. I gave this one the title for myself: do something! [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research has shown that the search rates have been poor for years and that citizens seem dissatisfied with the limited extent to which their prosecution wishes are being met and that an inexplicable number of declarations do not reach the criminal court;]] [[Whereas this frustrating "disappearance" of cases in the police to prosecutor's office may be caused by the fact that the public prosecutor is exempted from an obligation to prosecute under the principle of opportunity in force here;]] [[Whereas, because of this non-obligatoryness with the D.A., a non-exercising police officer, charged with the processing of declarations, may feel free to remove it from the sight of his superiors in a drawer and to leave it untouched under the motto "which no one harms above me, is no trouble for me";]] [[Whereas the introduction of the principle of legality may help against this problem which has been identified for years; whereas the public prosecutor is obliged to prosecute;]] [[Furthermore, it noted that the critical citizen/citizen is increasingly opposed to an OM-sepot and through Article 12 Sv. still wishes to enforce prosecution before the court;]] [[having also noted that the increase in these procedures has become a major burden on the courts and that the transitional periods advocated by the government have been considerably extended (the procedure of filing a complaint against a complaint 12 Sv., a possible prosecution order before the court, referral back to court, trial at first instance; just four years);]] [[Whereas the introduction of the principle of legality provides greater satisfaction for citizens and brings their trial (without detours) to the appropriate court;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate, for example, the WODC, to what extent the introduction of the principle of legality can contribute to speedier justice, to the citizens' willingness to report and to the removal of the courts,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u305	Then my second motion. This was the subject of yesterday's debate on Article 137d. This is about the level of punishment to be increased for hate-sowing. I have given this motion to myself the title of "sin of trouble." [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to double the penalty rate for hate-sowing (Article 137d Sr) from one to two years;]] [[having also noted that, in the case of the conviction based on this Article, judges have never yet applied the maximum prison sentence of one year currently in force and are often subject to conditional imprisonment;]] [[Also noting that the administration of justice has never been able to hear any sound that might indicate the need for a higher maximum sentence;]] [[Whereas the government's aim is to impose a "signal function" (the government agreement states: "Hate-sowing" is a serious fact);]] [[Whereas the drafting of the current definition of the offence and the threat of punishment sufficiently reflects this view and should therefore pass through the proposed amended law as symbol legislation;]] [[Whereas a forceless article of law, as proposed, will undermine the credibility of law enforcement and may be called undesirable;]] [[Whereas, moreover, a Member of this Parliament is now pleading his innocence in the hate-sowing case against him;]] [[Whereas the signal requested by the government at present could give the impression that it would also aim to ensure that, in the event of a conviction of this Member of Parliament, the judges would anticipate this announced increase in sentence;]] [[whereas, therefore, it can be foreseen that the proposed legislative amendment will not contribute to any change in the penalties to be imposed and that this change will be received by the public as a vindictive signal against a politician;]] [[calls on the government to abandon the proposed doubling of the penalty rate at 137d,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u306	I'll have a sip of water, Mr. Chairman. I'm hitting a nerve right now. My third motion concerns the amendment of 137d Criminal Law. My motto is: the calm citizen is tired of it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Forum for Democracy, as a party to love, must acknowledge that discrimination and hatred are also part of human innate humor and temperament;]] [[also considering that no threat of punishment can be able to model its human feelings according to the preferences of a legislator;]] [[Considering that the limitation of the free speech under Article 137d Sr in its present form as regards inciting discrimination and hatred leads to endless social discussions which undermine the tolerance between citizens and shy away from the debate for fear of being called a racist;]] [[Noting also that hardly any of the citizens who are genuinely accused of hatred and discrimination are being offered solace by a judgment;]] [[the article in its present form has become a refuge for professional activists and queulers, in which, according to their misapprehension, the way to justice serves only to display its own moral excellence;]] [[calls on the Government to present a proposal before 1 January 2018 to amend the text of Article 137d Sr in such a way that merely inciting violence against persons or property of people for their race, etc., is punishable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u307	My fourth motion concerns the subject that I raised yesterday at the motorcyclegangs. I gave her the motto: the minister invents a ruse. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is seeking to ban outlaw motorcyclegangs;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee;]] [[Whereas, even in the case of a prohibition imposed by a court, members will not be unable to engage in club activities in another club;]] [[having noted with the government that many members of motorcycle gangs have since been convicted of most of the violations of the Opium Act, the Arms and Ammunitions Act and of violent crimes, but that their clubs have always escaped a ban because of the hard-to-prove charge that the club's activities are in breach of public order;]] [[Considering that convicted motorcyclists often commit their crimes with fellow club members, that there is mutual solidarity and that there is a shared fascination for the appearance and possession of a machine of not modest size, which determines the stature of each member within the club;]] [[Whereas a member of the club with an imposed driving ban of substantial duration will lose his or her status and value within the club;]] [[noting, therefore, that in the event of a court judgment condemning a member of the club for a "macho-crime" (WWM, drugs, heavy violence, etc.) and in which the judge may establish that the mental condition of the offender at the time of the crime is to be traced back to his apparent admissibility to non-lawful impulses within the club, that judgment must be accompanied by the additional penalty of disqualification from driving;]] [[Whereas, in this way, recidivism is being carried out against convicted persons and their gangs are being stripped of criminal members;]] [[calls on the Government to present within six months a proposal to allow judges to deny a convicted person the power to drive motor vehicles for a substantial duration under the WWM and/or the Opium Act as an additional penalty to a convicted person for a substantial duration in cases where a convicted person has acquired mental inspiration in his motorcycle club environment at the time of committing such offences,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-VI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u308	I am sorry that they have had to be such long paragraphs, but the law is almost ready; all the requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u309	When you were halfway through, I thought you'd finished your motion, but then the most important thing had to come. Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. A total of 39 motions have been tabled. There is, of course, a need for a short suspension. I understand half an hour is enough, so that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u310	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u311	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin by thanking Members for their second-term input and in particular for their collective thanks to the officials who made sure yesterday afternoon, evening, night and this morning that we were able to have this substantively sound debate with each other. I would like to return to two questions from the first term. I will open in a moment with a question from Mr Grothuizen. The question put by Mr Kuik and Mr Buitenweg will be taken up in the motions along the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u312	Maybe it's a good thing to mention the pieces of the motions. That'll make it a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u313	Yeah, I'm gonna answer from the numbers. So if it's all right with you, I'm going to deal with three or four questions that weren't the subject of a motion. I'm gonna get through that fast, and then I'm gonna get to the motions, and I'm gonna do it by number. It must be borne in mind that I had already promised Mr Groothuizen in my first term of his interruption that I would return to the chemical waste. The question was whether the waste disposal fund could not be used more widely. First of all, this is primarily a responsibility for my colleague, the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State. She's about the stakes, so I'll pass this question on to her. I would also like to refer to the reply to written questions from Members Van Oosten and Dijkstra in July 2017, which states that the Ministry of IenW and the provinces are considering whether the instrument of co-financing the cost of clean-up of drug waste dumping is the best way to accommodate the victims. Following the availability of the review of the implementation of the Covenant for 2016, it will be considered whether and how the policy should be adjusted. Then I come to a separate question from Mrs Van Toorenburg about the creative possibilities for tackling undermining. We await with interest the case referred to by Mrs Van Toorenburg. In that case, the court was asked whether the police could intervene as adversely affected by the cost of dumping chemical waste. I have emphasised it in the first term, and I say it again once again: we are coming back in the creative ways, especially in the context of the undermining legislation and the agenda for further action. In that context, I mentioned the return of that boat as an example. Then I shall return to the questions and to the motions, in the order in which they were submitted by the Chamber. Ms. Helder asked for stolen criminal money and wealth to benefit society in the future. I told you about the boat: we are now going to work on it. We are also using the 100 million undermining fund for this. I do not want to anticipate that now and in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u314	I had also asked a question about working after 70 years. In addition, I had asked about the inequality in the view what overzealous municipal officials can do. I would also like an answer to those two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u315	I will answer Mr Krol's second question at the end of my second term and the first question is for my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection. Then Mrs Helder had another question about getting a better structural view of hidden crime, such as cybercrime. The WODC is currently investigating the extent of forms of crime that are not or to a lesser extent known through reports, such as undermining crime and cybercrime. With the results of that investigation, it will be possible to keep a regular better view of these types of crime. In that context, I come to the motion in part No. 41 by Mrs Helder on a new measuring instrument. As I explained in detail yesterday in the written reply, there are enough monitors to have a good picture of both registered crime and crime that is not reported. I just pointed out that new investigation. This motion is therefore not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u316	I actually have a question about order. Is the Minister now going to deal with all the motions in a row and come through the questions? Or will all the questions be answered first, and then the motions will be dealt with? I'm just losing track.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u317	I had some loose questions. I have a list of questions for you. I've sorted them all out on the subject. I think it would be more pleasant for you to deal with the motion and the questions on a particular subject at once. So I'll come back to your six questions. I will also comment on the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u318	That's good. Mrs. Helder, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u319	I don't really have a question. I've heard that an attempt is being made to do more periodic research into cybercrime. In that context, I would like to maintain my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u320	What motion was that again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u321	That was the very first motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u322	At the request of Mrs Helder, I propose her motion (34775-VI, No. 41). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u323	Then I come to Mrs Helder's second motion on the Veterinary Forensic Team. For the time being, the police, prosecutors and NFI are working with Utrecht University. I do not want to enter into the debate on who is the most competent. I am prepared to say here that I will evaluate the methodology and that I will consider next year around this time whether there is a need for strengthening expertise in veterinary forensics, but I would advise against the motion. Then I'm going to move to part number one. 49 of the Van Oosten c.s. About the absenteeism with the police. I say again that I agree with Van Oosten that 7% absenteeism is too high. That percentage needs to go down, seriously down. That's what the Corps is investing in. And the Corps is also looking for ways to move forward. I have already said the necessary things in the first place. In short, I want to comply with the request to come forward with a plan of action to reduce absenteeism before the Mayeces of 2018. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 55 members Van Dam, Van der Graaf and Arno Rutte. That motion is about the actual distribution. In the December progress report Realisation of national police, I will inform the Chamber about the current distribution of operational strength among the units and the impact of the intensification of 100 million on them. Further capacity expansion should be developed in conjunction with the update of the deployment and the flexibilisation agenda. That requires a careful trial, including the mayors, the D.A. and the police. I will outline to the Chamber in the progress letter the process surrounding the actualization. I shall also leave this motion to the Chamber. I shall now turn to the question of the willingness to report. In my first term, I explained that the concept of service provision was designed and is becoming more and more organized in such a way that it can actually be reported at the shortest possible time and at the earliest possible time. That's different than direct. I should advise against the motion, but I do not do so when the operative part may be read as "as soon as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u324	For the sake of clarity, this is the motion in part No. 56.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u325	Yeah, "z.s.m." is a term that does appeal to me in the context of criminal law, so you can read the motion in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u326	Then I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to the motion about operating the smartphone as an asshole fact. I would like to take this fact more seriously into account in the considerations made on two ongoing routes: the development of a progressive system of fines and the amendment of the Road Traffic Act on the increase of the penalty ceiling for a number of offences and a more detailed interpretation of the concept of'recklessness', on which I had an exchange of views with Mr Van Oosten. In this way, there is an integral consideration and design. I must discourage the motion in this form, but perhaps the petitioner is prepared to hold the motion until the trajectory I have just described has been completed. It is not even possible that such a solution would be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u327	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u328	At the request of Mr Van Dam, I propose his motion (34775-VI, No. 57). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u329	I dissuade the motion-Van Nispen c.s. in piece No. 60, about the growing of weed. The coalition agreement is the starting point for the experiments. Further conditions and principles have not yet been defined. As of tomorrow, I will discuss this with the Minister for Medical Care and further with municipalities and other partners. I'm not going to anticipate that, so I'm going to advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u330	In the written replies the Minister wrote: the conditions for the establishment of the experiments have not yet been determined. This is the way democracy works: we do not think one experiment is an experiment? We want to learn. We want to know what is good for the fight against crime and for the promotion of public health. So you can leave it to the Court to decide whether there will be one or more experiments. That would also be in line with the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u331	It is also part of democracy that I advise you not to take this motion. I have outlined to you in the first term, I am not going to do it to you to repeat all that I have a whole journey over the next few weeks, and I will finally return to you in an AO on the 20th. I therefore still dissuade the adoption of the motion. Then I come to the Van Nispen/Van Raak motion. 61, on the retirement age. Police officers regularly go to dangerous or otherwise far-reaching situations to ensure the enforcement of the rule of law or to provide assistance to those who need it. This creates an additional responsibility for the employer, with special attention to safe and personal care, then we come back to that point of healthy work. The policy on safe and healthy working is a recurring theme in consultation with police unions. Finally, the 2015-2017 Working Conditions Agreement has given a strong impetus to this. We are also working on measures aimed at sustainable employability, but it is also inevitable, in the light of social developments, that police officers will continue to work longer. I advise against this motion. Before I come to the motion of the Member Verhoeven concerning the cybersecurity institute, I will first address his question as to whether I would like to involve the Minister of VWS in the discussion on cybersecurity. I would like to say again that I will certainly do so. I thought I'd confirmed that in the first term, but here's the thing. Then there's the motion in part No. 68, which requested the government to examine the possibility of setting up a cybersecurity research institute. I assume that this can be read if I seriously put this item on the agenda with the other departments involved in this discussion. If so, I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. Then I come to the supplementary questions put by the Member of Parliament, Mr De Graaf. Can the Minister, in general terms, indicate more about counter-terrorism measures? As indicated in the written reply, I can tell you that there are several hundred jihadists in the Netherlands and several thousands of sympathizers. How many are classified as dangerous shall not be made publicly available. Jihadists can secretly come to Europe in various ways, regularly using a false identity. Sometimes the same routes can be used as those used by asylum seekers. Several concrete cases of misuse of the migration flow by ISIS have now been identified in Europe. For example, part of the attackers in Paris and Brussels came with the flow of migration from Syria to Europe. In some cases, ISIS supporters have also applied for asylum in European countries. There are investigations in the Netherlands into persons in the asylum procedure who may have terrorist motives. On operational matters, I cannot make any announcements here in public. The Dutch government, including the implementing organisations, is alert to signals of misuse of migration flows and asylum procedures by jihadists and other terrorists. Where appropriate, investigations shall be carried out. Although the Dutch authorities are alert to the risks and asylum seekers are screened by the organisations concerned, it cannot be excluded that terrorists still manage to abuse the asylum procedure. And again, I can't make statements about individual cases in public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u332	There was a bit more content, but no new information, because it is already known from the media. I don't think we're getting anywhere with this either today. So we're gonna take another shot at that. Can the Minister then inform the Chamber of the ongoing incident surrounding the Balie Terrorist, so to speak, as soon as possible after the investigation has been completed and at least on how and what happened and what the outcome of the investigation has been? You can do that in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u333	At the moment, I am not going to make a commitment to you on any individual matter. This also applies to what I said in the first term: there is also a balance to be struck in the area of detection and, in particular, safety. I'm not going to repeat it all, because that's annoying for you, too. At least I can imagine. But I would like to repeat once again very clearly the essence of my speech, and that is that our services are extremely alert to everyone, whether he is Syrian or originally Dutch, who has been in that region or in jihadist war zone and is going to the Netherlands. To that alertness you may always address me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u334	Finally, without repeating itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u335	Without repetition, but one step further. In the answer in the first term, the Minister said: I cannot provide information on current cases or on individual cases. We believe that this can be done, because it has happened more often. But this too is repetition. The Chamber can't control what an ongoing case is if we don't know what an ongoing case is. So we have a double backlog in this way. I just asked about the Balie Terrorist's ongoing case. When that case is over, that's not an ongoing case anymore. Surely the Minister will be able to provide more information? I think it's fine to do that by letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u336	Firstly, as you know, a 30-member debate requested by you and others is planned. In that we can talk again about what is actually possible or not possible. Secondly, I have said this to you before, and I cannot provide any further information here on matters involving our services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u337	Not after, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u338	Well, I'd certainly like to come back to that in a letter. I would like to say to Mr De Graaf that you really shouldn't think of it as unwillingness, that you shouldn't say anything about it from, seriously, the considerations that are at issue in relation to the issue of the safety and also the working methods of our service. I would like to assure you that I will return to this later in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u339	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u340	Good. Then there was also a motion by Mr Kuik and Mr Buitenweg on the report of sexual crimes. In September of this year, your Chamber received a WODC study on the factors and considerations of adult victims of sexual crimes to report to or not report to police or assistance. In last week's letter on sexually unwanted behaviour and sexual violence, which I sent to your Chamber on Friday, I announced that I will see in the coming period how possible thresholds for victims to make notifications can be lowered. I can assure you that the victim perspective and the treatment of victims will be explicitly addressed. That is precisely why we are going to involve Victim Support The Netherlands and the Centres Sexual Violence. The focus of the investigation into desirable and feasible improvements in the criminal proceedings of sex cases is also on the victim's position. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u341	Judgement Room, what more do you want, Mrs. Buitenweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u342	Oh, I forgot the part number and that's 69.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u343	Yes, from Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u344	"Judge Room" is also very good. I'm gonna come back on the WODC report. It is not satisfactory in that sense, firstly because it was only a limited number of victims and secondly because the investigation was carried out for 2016, the year in which the moral instruction was introduced. "Judge Room" is good and then we can perhaps at a later stage see how, even in the future, the newer experiences can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u345	Next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u346	Yeah, that's the motion in part no. 70. It is a motion by Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Kikken and Mr Van der Graaf, in which the government is asked to promote the high priority given to the handling of alcohol-induced driving and to bring its urgency to the attention of the police and the public prosecutor. I also leave this motion, which I consider to be a support for my policy, to the House for its assessment. The Van der Staaij motion in part No. 71 calls on the Government to maintain the criteria set on the resident criterion and on the regulated growing of weed. Madam President, with regard to the experiments, the coalition agreement is leading, because further conditions and principles have not yet been defined. I will not anticipate that. That's why I advise against this motion. The national tolerance framework is formed by the Opium Act and the designation of Opium Act of the Public Prosecutor. As of 1 January 2013, the resident criterion shall form part of it. As I have already pointed out, prioritising enforcement is a matter for the local triangle. It is decided in administrative law that I cannot force a mayor to actively maintain the resident criterion. Almost all mayors have adapted their coffeeshop policies to the national framework, including the resident criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u347	Mr Van der Staaij, brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u348	A brief question, yes. Mr President, the Minister states that he cannot simply force a municipality to maintain these conditions, because there are also local priorities. I agree. Does the Minister also agree with me that such an experimental framework would allow us to say that only those municipalities that are in order can participate in an experiment? It's not my experiment, but it would be an opportunity to strike straight with a curved stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u349	That is a fairly local sport, but then I will come to the same area as I have just discussed with Mr Van Nispen and I will talk about the implementation of the experiments. Well, at least I took the thought well into my head. I have taken due note of that, but I am not going to make any further commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u350	The motion in part No. 72.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u351	The motion Bishop c.s. in piece No. 72 on that police criterion. That has been discussed before. I may not have expressed myself very well this morning. Well, that's my fault. I referred to the explanatory statement to Article 38a, which was also included by Mr Bishop's party at the time. Then it concerns at least one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants per regional unit and not per municipality. The division of district agents within the unit is to the mayors and prosecutors within that unit. If this motion is passed, we get a tightening up of the law and the explanation for it, and we go to at least one district agent per 5,000 inhabitants per municipality. I was going to report that, but maybe I didn't say that right this morning. I would suggest that this motion be retained and involved in the evaluation of the Police Act. You know that my position will be on this in spring 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u352	Mr Bishop, what is your answer to that? You can think till Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u353	If I do, that evaluation will come next spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u354	Yes, spring 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u355	Then I can get this involved, and I'm going to take this motion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u356	At the request of Mr Bishop, I propose his motion (34775-VI, No. 72). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u357	Then I come to the motion on part No. 76 of Mr Azarkan, who asked to identify the additional instruments which could be used to change culture in the police. I'd like to advise against that motion. In the progress letter I will inform the House of Representatives about the cultural change, also in relation to the diversity policy in the police. That letter will, as I have already announced, land before Christmas in the Chamber. So I advise against this motion. The principle of legality is the last thing I want to do. First of all, I would like to come to the motion on the penalty for hate-sowing. That's the motion in part No. 78. I'll come back later on to the motion on part No. 77.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u358	You are with Mr Hiddema now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u359	Yes. The motion Hiddema wants to reverse the doubling of the sentence. The amendment of the law doubles the penalty. The seriousness of the crime is differently appreciated in this society, and that is what is called for, as explained in more detail in the coalition agreement, for a firmer approach. The motion in part No. 78 is therefore not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 77 on the amendment of Article 137d. Here, too, dissuade. Inciting hatred would disappear and thus the essence of the article would disappear. The coalition agreement speaks very clearly. The cabinet believes that there should be strong action against hate-stowing and that the criminal justice system should be given more room for the most serious forms of hate-stowing in order to impose an appropriate punishment. Before I finish with the answers to Mr Krol's questions, I shall be the last of the motions for resolutions to be put to the vote. 77, on the principle of opportunity. I would like to expressly distance myself from the image outlined by the MP Hiddema of the prosecution and the police as officials who, on occasion, would prefer to withdraw the declarations or notifications from their office instead of going ahead with it. My experience as a citizen, but also in the past five or six weeks as a minister, is that the D.A. and the police are highly motivated organisations with people who see their profession as a kind of vocation, pick up reports, track down and prosecute perpetrators. If, in certain categories of offences, this leads to a lower percentage of packing or a lower level of clarification, we must first of all, as a society, look at how that is done, and not suggest that this could get away from the state attorney and the police who have a quiet job and leave things behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u360	Now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u361	The principle of opportunity is one of the principles of the system of criminal procedure. The prosecution may waive further prosecution on grounds of public interest. The idea is that criminal prosecution is not always an adequate response to a criminal offence. In that decision, the Public Prosecutor is bound by general principles of law, such as a prohibition of arbitrariness, and is under the control of this Minister and ultimately the Parliament. If you introduce the principle of legality, all kinds of gag cases should also be brought before the courts. In short, our OM currently has a conscientious core task, and it must remain so. Germany has such a principle of legality, but research shows that there are not all cases of persecution there either. This is also apparent from all kinds of legal comparisons with similar systems. A contribution to the acceleration of lead times, as the MP Hiddema assumed, is certainly not giving up the principle of opportunity. I therefore do not consider an investigation necessary and advise against this motion. Finally, I would like to ask Mr Krol who is in charge of maintaining public order as a whole. Municipalities draw up a local security policy. The mayor is responsible for law and order. I can't and I don't want to go in there either. I would like to say, however, that I am the one who sets the framework for the powers of violence and the like. That concludes my contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u362	Thank you. Mr Hiddema has another question. Go ahead, Mr. Hiddema. You can say it in the microphone, otherwise we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u363	I would just like to say that, in my best view, the Minister is not yet ready. The issue is as follows: there is a motion for a resolution which includes the introduction of additional penalties, denial of driving rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u364	That's what my colleague's gonna talk about in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u365	That's good. Mr Markuszower has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u366	I have also tabled a motion which, in my opinion, would lie with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u367	Which one is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u368	Yeah, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u369	That's the motion in part No. 47, I hear behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u370	The motion in part No. 47 is about the elected judge and the prosecutor's office. We believe that this subject belongs in particular to the Minister for Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u371	So that motion is still under discussion. We'll keep track of it, too, Mr. Markuszower and Mr. Hiddema. I now give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u372	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by echoing what my colleague has just said. It is great to see how hard and also how much knowledge and skills are being worked on JenV, also to make this debate work. You could say it's not just the three of us, it's a whole team. I hope that also the Chamber will not be able to do it with the three of us, nor with 76. As far as I am concerned, we are doing it as widely as possible in many areas. I have a number of questions and then I will make the recommendations on the motions. Firstly, Mrs Buitenweg's question whether I would like to give the price tags or the calculations for all possible legal aid scenarios. I'm not going to do that. What I can promise is that if we come up with the contours of a new framework by the summer, we will also have a sound financial transfer, so we will show that this will eventually be within the budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u373	Mrs Buitenweg asks a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u374	I asked my question because I feel that there are a lot of alternatives and therefore I simply do not believe that this could amount to 127 million. It therefore protects that there are alternatives, but in my view it is simply a matter of cutting back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u375	No, we'll take the frames as they are. "There is an end to this," Mr Van Nispen now calls from the audience. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u376	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u377	But starting point is we're doing it in there. Mrs Buitenweg's question now is: does it fit? I assume that, when we come up with a plan later, Mrs Buitenweg will be the first to pierce the interrupting microphone into the spreadsheets on that financial transfer. However, I will make sure that there is a pass-through. But I would find it really a waste of time to pre-calculate all kinds of alternatives that we haven't discussed with the field yet. I come to Mr Van Nispen's question about lowering the right to register for SMEs. I understand the point, but the consequences of the reduction of registry fees are also difficult to assess. Because in the category of claims between €500 and €12,500 there are actually a lot of things. So if you were to lower the Registry fees, it would soon involve a considerable amount of money. In total, it's about 18 million. In order to remain within existing budgets, a significant increase in other rates will therefore have to be achieved. And there are also some choices to be made, because what other categories are you going to increase? I would like to say that I am at least going to present the consequences and inform the Chamber about them. In doing so, I can identify several options to compensate for the financial consequences of a possible reduction with an increase elsewhere. That does not mean that I am immediately enthusiastic about it, but at least we have the scenarios here a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u378	Such an investigation alone would be very good. So thank you for this commitment. The suggestion is to also look at the possibility of an extra stem. For it has not been said that the claims of €12,500 also necessarily require lower registry fees. Then it does cost a lot of money. But it would be very wise to include the proposal to add an extra standard in that investigation. Such a proposal has been made in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u379	I make a number of scenarios, all budget neutral. But you could put it in there. Mr Krol asked about the age dismissal of judges and about the investigation that is under way. That research will come in spring 2018. He also asked a question about article 220 of the Civil Code, and about structural hate-sowing versus once. Maybe I can take that along with the bill coming to the Chamber in the course of next year. Then I come to the motions, first to the ones in part No. 47 by Mr Markuszower. It is about the elected judge and, by the way, elected prosecutors. We don't recommend that motion. Perhaps it would be nice to look at the investigations of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. It asks people in the country, citizens, how they look at different target groups and whether they trust them. There's a fantastic graphic in the last report. This shows that the trend for judges is rising. So trust in judges is increasing. Unfortunately, this trend is in the opposite direction among politicians. So let's be careful and not do all kinds of crazy things around elected judges, because that trust is going well. Then the motion to part No. 50. It belongs to Mr Van Oosten and a very sad other Members. That's a broad-based motion. I can say that I believe that we share the principle that those who deserve punishment should also be punished. And I understand perfectly well that the sense of justice is at stake in the statute of limitations of penalties. So I can leave the judgment here to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Nispen and Mr Azarkan on legal aid and ZSM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u380	The motion in part No. 51.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u381	That's the motion in part No. 51. I think there has been a misunderstanding, and I myself caused it at first instance. There's just a budget for these things from 2018. That is why I can leave this motion to the House's judgement. Then I can come your way with the investigation and the plan. The motion in part No. 52 by Mrs Buitenweg, Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Kuik, I recommend. In my opinion, we should not be puzzled in the old framework of legal aid anymore, but really look for something new. It's gotta have all the energy in it. The motion in part No. 58 by Mr Nispen, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Buitenweg...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u382	Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u383	Van Nispen, sorry. We have discussed this for a long time in the first term. I therefore advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 59 is about moving the budget from 2017 to 2018. The point is that that really goes against all the budgetary rules. I don't want to argue with our finance minister either. So I'm going to dissuade this motion, but maybe I can promise you something else, and maybe that'll make you happy too. The question has been discussed for a long time: is it for one year or is it structural? There is also a motion by former MP Recourt, who said: try to arrange this in a structural manner. I do not want us to be in such a discussion again next year and we will do so at the very last minute. So perhaps you would like to withdraw this motion or at least forgive me for betraying it, with the promise that I will do my best to find a structural solution to this. The motion is being held, I see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u384	Well... Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u385	However, this motion seeks to increase the 1 million made available to the desirable 1.5 million, as we have already agreed in the past: adopted amendment, adopted motion. So if the Minister's commitment is that he is going to do his utmost to make EUR 1.5 million structural, then I can indeed continue this motion. But not if he says he's going to make EUR 1 million structural, because that doesn't add anything to the amendment that's going to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u386	That last scenario is about the one million. Just as formal: with an amendment you can arrange one year and not a structural transition. That is why I tried to give the latter with that commitment. It's up to you what you do with the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u387	Are you gonna keep her on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u388	The commitment is very good, but that phrase was also included in the amendment. I looked very closely at that. So the commitment is good, but I hope the Minister will also promise that he will do his utmost to see if the budget will be able to move towards that 1.5 million for next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u389	I'm afraid I can't. The amendment really takes care of 1 million. I'm gonna do my best to see if we can make that structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u390	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u391	The motion in part No. 62 of Mr Van Nispen, Mr Buitenweg and Mr Kuik on the inadmissibility of cases, I recommend. The judge may, where appropriate, make exceptions. The law leaves that space. Complementary legislation will not solve this problem. The motion of Members of the Grand House, Van Dam and Van der Graaf can be left to the House's discretion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u392	That was the motion in part No. 65, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u393	Yes, in part No. 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u394	I have one question about that. At the end of the request it says: "Around the summer recess of 2018.' Can't that have any financial consequences, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u395	No, because the task was: within the budgetary framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u396	Please continue. Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u397	I would like to know what the consequences will be if this motion is not adopted. Because what does it say other than what you have already promised and written down in your letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u398	We're gonna get to work on this. I tasted from Mr Grothuizen that he would like to see support in the back coming from the Chamber. I have no objection to that and therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u399	However, you must adhere to the five methods of assessment in the assessment framework for motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u400	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Then there is Mr Grothuizen's motion on probation. When I read her like that, this motion is in line with RSJ report on reintegration. A number of considerations are given in relation to the report, namely that all prisoners are screened against the five basic conditions and, secondly, that the probation is given an advisory role. With regard to the first point, I am currently exploring how as many prisoners as possible can be screened. I do not consider screening all prisoners realistic in advance, for example because in some cases detention is simply too short, the regime makes this difficult or prisoners simply do not want to cooperate. Two pilots have now been completed with regard to the advisory role of probation. In it, DJI and the parole board worked closely together and jointly examined which inmate at which stage of parole was exactly needed to draw up such a reintegration plan. On the basis of the positive results of these pilots, a method of nationalisation will be developed in the coming period, with cooperation and tailor-made delivery being the starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u401	The verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u402	The judgment is therefore as follows. If the motion seeks to continue what we have set in motion, then I can take over the motion. Then I will go into that in the view on the prison system. Otherwise, I would like to ask Mr Groothuizen if he wishes to continue the motion until the debate on the RSJ report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u403	I can imagine. I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u404	At the request of Mr Grothuizen, I propose his motion (34775-VI, No. 66). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u405	Then there is Mr Azarkan's motion on diversity. That's the motion in part No. 73. In calling for diversity, I can certainly imagine something, but very formally I am now exercising my new role, and I am not talking about the appointment of judges. That's why I'm deceiving the motion. I know that Mr Azarkan had to go to another meeting, but for the Acts I would like to tell him that the Council itself considers this to be a very important point in the case of justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u406	And your judgment is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u407	I must discourage the motion because we are not dealing with the appointment of judges. Then there is the motion by Mr Azarkan and Mr Van Nispen and Mr Buitenweg on the Committee on Disputes, on item No. 74. I advise against it, also because of the lack of cover. I'll come to the motion in part No. 75. It's about zero readings. I'd advise against that, too. Then I come to the very last motion for a resolution before me: the motion in part No. 80 by Mr Hiddema. Maybe I'll do that in the short version: under the motto "I'll keep the theater for later."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u408	Under the motto? What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u409	"I'll hold the theater for later." Mr Hiddema started every motion with a motto, so now I come with my motto.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u410	However, it is important to add arguments, as with all motions. The same goes for this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u411	I can say something about that. Look, it is not reasonable to deprive the driving licence of the offences involved which are not directly related to traffic. Moreover, the question is whether this actually solves something. Recent research has shown that members of criminal motorcycle gangs do not really like to comply with the law and that a significant part of them do not already have a driving licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u412	Thank you. Mr Hiddema wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u413	We're kind of in the back, and right when something humorous happens, I can't understand it at the back. Your introduction was a joke, but I didn't understand. Can I hear it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u414	Ah... but now it's not a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u415	Oh. Shall we get rid of that then? What I do not understand, however, is your explanation of your objections to this motion. I understand that you are lightly aware that a lot of people in the motorcycle club do not have a license and that it would therefore have little effect. It could be. I've also had a few people on duty who didn't really represent the essence of the club, but who did a very useful job. They'd be club members. That's how you could take it. Yeah, that could be. But a criminal motorbike gangster because that's the only stature that's criminal, really has a driver's license. It does not take away its engine and it derives its entire stature and the criminal setting in which it wishes to dwell from that possession of its engine. So as long as you think this doesn't make sense, for reasons you mention now, I would think: look at how the real world works in that environment. And then it's so simple. I'm not on the market here, and I don't need to sell any more. But why should you leave what can be simple? How much cost, ambition, effort and dedication have the prosecutors already stopped trying to ban the motorcycle gangs? Well, then you get the members out with the simple removal of the driver's license and Kees is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u416	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u417	Then you say that you can't, because the crimes they commit have nothing to do with the Road Traffic Act. But it's not that simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u418	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u419	There are already criminal provisions in the Code that are linked to the special penalty of taking away from the Road Traffic Act, while there is no need for a road traffic offence at all. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u420	If the members of this kind of criminal motorcycle gang were to abide by the law, namely by not having a driver's license either, they probably wouldn't do a lot of other and worse things. The point I want to make is that it is written in recent research that a lot of members of criminal motorcycle gangs have no license and still sit on those things. So, apart from all the other concerns, I very much wonder if it will have any effect if driving licences are taken away from them...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u421	Yes. Finally, Mr Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u422	Short and simple, believe me. Anyone who gets his status from his whole macho and impressive appearance within the club really does make sure that he doesn't lose his motorbike because of an asshole traffic trespass if I may call it that. If you think that's a real situation: success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u423	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u424	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u425	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank some Members of Parliament for thinking for a moment about the officials who worked last night and last night and this morning. I have now seen with my own eyes how many people are working on it. Let me be honest: I was never so aware of that in my time as a Member of Parliament. I'm glad this is appreciated in the house, too. Mr President, I am passing the motions in my area. Then I will answer a few remaining questions. I'll start with the motion in part No. 43 which calls for the closure of the Dutch borders. I don't support that. First of all, I do not do so because of what I said in my introduction: the importance I attach to providing care for people who need protection under the Refugee Convention or the ECHR. I have argued in detail that we are taking a number of measures to control migratory flows and to reduce security risks in the Netherlands, but I cannot support this motion. That's why I'm dissuading her. The Fritsma motion in part No. 44 is about no bed-bath-bread-care and no children's pardon scheme. To be honest, I also think that the PVV Group here does not recognise that the national immigration services that the government intends to set up are being set up to work on the departure of foreigners from these locations. By the way, it is not the case that we support bed-bath bread as a government financially. Then I come to the other part of the motion, the children's pardon. A part of that scheme is that it is assessed whether there has been genuine work on departure. This condition ensures that the scheme does not unduly trigger or conflict with the return policy. So that's balanced again. I therefore advise against the motion on both parts. The Fritsma motion in part No. 45 calls on the government to criminalise illegality. The cabinet wants to reduce illegal residence. For this reason, it also focuses more strongly on preventing illegal migration and on the departure of illegally staying foreign nationals. The cabinet is therefore also committed to releasing additional capacity for the Return and Departure Service. Cooperation with municipalities is also crucial. However, the Cabinet considers that criminalising illegality in the context of these proposed measures will not contribute to sufficient additional costs. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. The Fritsma motion in part No. 46 asks the government to withdraw the temporary asylum permits of Syrians residing in the Netherlands. We had a somewhat more detailed debate earlier. The assessment of whether the security situation in Syria has improved in such a way that our asylum policy can be adapted in part, I really want to base it on the facts. I therefore propose that we wait for the message of office to be delivered in 2018. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I'll come to the motion in part No. 53. That is a motion by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van Dijk and Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u426	Mr Fritsma has another question on the previous motion, apparently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u427	It is not so much about the motions, but I still have an important question for the Secretary of State. Today we have heard from the Christian Union that MPs are working behind the scenes on all kinds of housing issues. That is, of course, unacceptable. It's uncontrollable backroom politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u428	And your question to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u429	Can the Secretary of State therefore indicate how often this happens, who the MPs involved are, how often these contacts have led to residence permits, and what he does to stop that back-room politics? Can he report it to the Chamber every time another MP comes to him for residence permits? This cannot be left out of sight. Part of the room is completely excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u430	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u431	And chairman, last...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u432	Very briefly. We're not gonna start another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u433	No, Mr President, but you should also support me, because this is where part of the Chamber is put out of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u434	You will have the opportunity to say this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u435	I cannot do my executive task in this way, so this question is very important. I only had one point left. That information does not need to be provided equally. You can do that by letter. I imagine the Secretary of State doesn't have everything at hand. I would ask him to give that overview in relation to the last two years, because then we will still have some clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u436	Yes. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u437	I already had this on my list. I intended to respond briefly to this after the discussion of the motions. The existence of that discretionary power is no secret. That's in the Aliens' Order following the Foreigners' Act 2000. It is on this basis that cases are finally submitted to the Secretary of State. People can present a case for themselves and there can also be statements of support, in whatever form. People can draw attention to that. This is sometimes done by MPs, but much more often by other stakeholders from the local community or from local government. That can happen from a lot of places. I would add that all of this is irrelevant, because the only way it comes to the Secretary of State is through the IND in the form of a complete file. It is then up to the State Secretary to assess whether there is an exceptionally poignant case. Next, the decision says that the Secretary of State makes a discretionary decision on this matter. The numbers involved are public. I refer to the answer to Question 481 in the written preparation of this budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u438	Finally, Mr Fritsma. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u439	This is too easy and absolutely no answer. The Secretary of State has indicated how often discretion is applied. I know. I've read those answers. What I want to know is how many times this Chamber lobbies to issue that residence permit. We've just heard. There's been contact behind the scenes with you on residence matters. That's back room politics that can't be accepted. In this way, all kinds of mini-general pouches can be arranged out of sight. For example, the second party of the Netherlands has absolutely no idea about this. That is unacceptable, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u440	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u441	Yeah, but you should back me up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u442	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u443	Because part of the room has...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u444	You'll just have the opportunity to ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u445	...no idea how the foreign policy is being implemented. That's unacceptable. I just want the questions I just asked answered!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u446	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u447	The answer is very clear: I am not being lobbied on this. I get one thing presented in those cases, and that's just the file from the IND. That's it. I read the file from a to z and only on that file I base my judgment. I think that's what all the secretaries of state have done for me. This is the way the regulation is structured and there is no lobbying for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u448	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u449	No, Mr Fritsma, you're not getting the floor again, because you've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u450	I'll get on with it another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u451	Oh, yeah. I believe that there will be plenty of debates in which this point will be raised again. Mr. Voordewind, a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u452	I have only pointed out to Mr Fritsma that the Secretary of State has discretionary powers. I didn't point to backrooms or anything. I told him there was a power of attorney. Mr Fritsma knows that too, so I do not understand the riot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u453	I suggest you proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u454	Mr President, I have been addressed directly!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u455	You have a right to a reply. All right, let's finish. In fact, I have the feeling that no one dares say goodbye to the budgetary treatment or anything like that, that you want to continue. Mr. Fritsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u456	It is not true what Mr Voordewind says. It can be read in the Acts. It has been literally said that behind the scenes work is being done to help foreigners obtain residence permits. You can cut it off, fine, but the last word has not yet been said about this. That information has to come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u457	I suggest you proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u458	Mr. Chairman. The motion-Van Ojik c.s. in piece No. 53 calls on the Government to implement the Scheme in a generous manner. We have also had a wide-ranging debate on this subject. I have indicated that I cannot do so much with terms such as 'empty' or'restrictive' when it comes to implementing a regime with clear conditions. However, I am in favour of a careful implementation of the regulation which is appropriate to the nature of the issue. Those applications should be examined reasonably by the relevant department, the IND. I would like to point out to the Chamber that figures have also been mentioned this afternoon, but over the years they have been running erraticly. This also relates to the number of applications. For example, the percentage for 2017 is already higher than was said. The Reporting Stranger Chain for the first half of 2017 included a percentage of 18. But it is also related to the number of applications. It is done carefully, but it is checked against the scheme. It happens carefully, with regard to the individual case and in all reasonableness. Since this motion wishes to put the word 'clean' on that, I must advise against it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the Van Ojik motion on part No. 54 on the suspension of aid to the Libyan Coast Guard. We have also discussed this in detail. Support to the Libyan Coast Guard is part of the building of the Libyan government, also because the Libyan Coast Guard carries out other legal tasks in addition to rescue operations in the search and rescue area declared by Libya. The cabinet believes that it is also trying to do something about capacity building. Moreover, funding is provided under an EU programme. Under that flag, for example, we supported a training mission. It is not the case that direct financial support from the Netherlands goes to Libya. It all goes through the EU and in the past through the IOM. In another area, the government, together with European and international partners, is always calling on Libya to improve the conditions in the centres and the reception of migrants and to act against criminal smugglers and slave traffickers. In the meantime, however, we also want a coastguard to be operational and capable of carrying out tasks and helping to save people. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u459	Mr Van Ojik, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u460	The point is that we know from that information that we get almost every day that it doesn't help if we talk to the Coast Guard or anyone else about it. The Secretary of State says there is no Dutch contribution, but there has been a big debate in the House of Representatives because we were going to give 1.5 million to that Libyan Coast Guard. We have already talked about the inconvenience that brings us all. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send a further letter to the Chamber explaining what we support, what exactly that leads to in the activities of the Coast Guard and whether there is any reason to change that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u461	Yeah, I'll give you that letter. It will show how that works, ultimately through the European Union. Then I come to the Jasper van Dijk/Van Ojik motion on part No. 63, which is also about Libya. It also contains the words 'complaint to returning refugees to Libya'. As far as the suggestion is concerned that EU support for capacity building to save people at sea is equivalent to accessory to unsafe return, I do not share that comparison. On the previous motion, I have already indicated that the European Union is providing financial support to finance, for example, the equipment and maintenance of ships. The IOM, the International Organisation for Migration, has also developed a training curriculum, which is carried out with the help of EU experts. In addition to rescue operations, the Libyan Coast Guard also carries out a number of other legal tasks. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u462	Mr. Chairman. Would the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u463	Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u464	Thank you, that's right. Shouldn't the Secretary of State strictly embrace this motion? Doesn't he agree? He says that Coast Guard mission doesn't do anything wrong. I think he agrees with me that the EU should not be complicit in sending refugees back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u465	I believe that we will then have a kind of shady debate, because then it will probably be the discussion afterwards to stop supporting the coastguard in the EU context. We are in favour of an approach to reject what goes wrong there, to be critical of it, to appeal to the Libyan authorities and others, but in the meantime still to see what we can do to ensure that it gets better. On the basis of that approach, I advise against this motion. Mr. Chairman. The Jasper van Dijk motion in part No. 64 is about Afghanistan. We also had an extensive exchange of views on this subject during the first period. I have indicated that I believe that the asylum policy for Afghanistan is adequate, with particular attention already being paid to a very large number of groups at risk. There is always a careful individual test, also eventually by the judge. It's not perfect in Afghanistan, far from it. We saw this earlier in the year, as explained in the February letter on country policy. What we have adapted to this is in line with the serious situation in Afghanistan and, where necessary, leads to individual protection. For this reason, I see no reason for an overall decision and departure Moratorium. We have looked at it again: that is also the case in all the other Member States of the European Union. They didn't say that at the moment either. Those are the reasons why I dissuade the motion. Furthermore, Mr Voordewind asked for the UNHCR's opinion on returning to Afghanistan. We've been looking into that for a while. It is true that the UNHCR has for a long time indicated that Afghanistan's absorption capacity for people returning is limited. So that is not so much about the return itself as about the recording capacity. That is also why the Netherlands is committed to a voluntary return, where financial support and support in kind is possible. Of course, there is also just the necessary practical support. In this way, a returner can be accompanied as much as possible and this finding by the UNHCR can be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u466	Now the final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u467	Then the final motion. That's the motion in part No. 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u468	One question, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u469	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was still about my motion, but Mr Voordewind pointed out another quote from the UN. In that the UN indicated that it is not wise to send people back at the moment. So that wasn't about the recording capacity. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u470	We have just looked at what the UNHCR has said. I don't know if this is the same verdict as the UN. I also think it would be a good idea to consider the role of the UNHCR in this regard. UNHCR has a role to play in the application of the Refugee Convention and the need for protection. But if it has been established to the highest court that a migrant is not a refugee within the meaning of the Refugee Convention or otherwise needs protection, then return is at issue. So we come to an area of activity which no longer concerns the primary focus of the UNHCR. Once again, we are not aware of the statements in which the UNHCR says that it cannot do so. That's why I maintain the judgment I gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u471	The final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u472	Mr. Chairman. The final motion is the motion in part No. 67 by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Azmani, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Voordewind on the assessment of the credibility of converts and libtis. Although I think that the procedures are careful, I have already indicated in the debate that I am open to always looking at whether there is room for improvement, including in consultation with associations of interest and religious institutions. I said this afternoon that the WODC intends to investigate this further. But in the corridors I have also understood that those words may be misunderstood: that I would like to wait until the WODC is finished with that. That's not my intention. I actually indicated this afternoon that I am open to this. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. If the motion is adopted, I intend to do two things. In consultation with interest groups and bodies, we will examine where there is room for improvement. I'll put that back in the room. It's likely that the WODC will come up with another investigation report after that. Then we will look again at the recommendations that the WODC will make. Finally, I have one final question. I think I had already given an implicit answer to this question. It is the question of Mr Van der Staaij, who asked about the implementation of his motion. He asked whether we would also bring the importance of exit programmes and the definition of a policy vision to the attention of the municipalities in order to examine the scope and possibilities for municipalities to develop that policy vision. I can promise. That is what we are going to do, and that is what I am going to involve in the planning of the fight against trafficking in human beings next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u473	Mr. Van Ojik, I'm giving you the opportunity to hold a motion. Is that the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u474	The Minister has promised a letter about Libya. As you suggested, I do intend to hold my motion on the Libyan Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u475	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u476	That's the motion in part No. 54 on support for the Libyan Coast Guard. There's been an emergency. That's what we all think. It would be nice if the letter could come a little soon. I would like to continue this motion if the Minister promises that this letter will come a little soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u477	I can promise and promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u478	At the request of Mr Van Ojik, I propose his motion (34775-VI, No. 54). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u479	This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for Justice and Security. I would like to thank the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-8.u480	Of course, we are going to vote on the motions on Tuesday.
