ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to Mr Bashir of the SP Group. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Thursday we had a general discussion from 9:30 in the morning to 5:30 in the afternoon. I understand that the Committee on Finance has never had such a long discussion. It was a painful general discussion. For hours there was a debate on crucial documents from the Board of Directors of the Tax Administration. Pieces that the Secretary of State also refused to read, until the last moment. Then, apparently, the Secretary of State realized that he is the Secretary of State who deals with the Tax Administration and still has to read the documents. Meanwhile, the IRS is emptying out. I have already tabled a motion on filling vacancies. I shall put it to the vote. In order to reduce the discharge, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission's investigation Tax Administration writes that the continuity of "vital processes" of the Tax Administration has been compromised by the departure of thousands of employees with "risks to the collection of taxes";]] [[Whereas qualified personnel are leaving the service on a massive scale;]] [[calls on the government, with out-of-the-box proposals, to retain people who are planning to leave but who are actually badly needed for the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bashir. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-335]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	I know we talked about this in the AA. I have also made a call, a kind of moral appeal to these people not to abandon the Tax Administration immediately but to continue working a little longer, with a view to continuity. Do I have to understand this motion in such a way that Mr Bashir is in favour of hiring the people who are leaving, as externals, for the Tax Administration, by way of a detour? Is that also included in the operative part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	No, it's not about externally, it's about internally. That's also in the motion: to keep them for the IRS. I've put it very broadly. I'm not in favour of external hiring, so I want them hired internally. I have put it broadly with the idea that the Secretary of State should really take everything out of the closet to ensure that people are preserved. That could be in a different, better function, or maybe something financial. The Secretary of State's up to it. He must consider how to do that, within the framework of reasonableness. It has gone wrong before and that €75,000 is far too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	If someone leaves with a departure bonus and is then hired back as an external, he will also be retained for the Tax Administration, but as an external. I just wanted to make sure that was also covered by that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	And these issues have not been discussed in general consultation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It's not supposed to be external. We want to keep them for the IRS, so internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	I would like some clarification in order to be able to interpret the motion properly and to provide my group with a good voting opinion. In general consultation Mr Bashir indicated that he felt it should be possible for people who had already received an exit scheme to keep part of the amount if they stayed. Does that also mean "out of the box" or does that not include?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	On the contrary, I have deliberately formulated the motion very broadly. I'll let the Secretary of State know that he has to think of everything, but within reason. It must be explained to the country and to the other employees of the Tax Administration. If people are allowed to keep the full amount of the departure scheme if they continue to work at the Tax Office, that is not to be explained. I'm sure there's something creative to come up with that allows people who leave, although they actually like working at the IRS, to be preserved for the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	To be clear, people are now entitled to the agreements they have made. Mr Bashir and I find these agreements undesirable and unwise, but they are there. I do understand Mr Bashir's input. There was also a little talk in the AO about the fact that no pressure is being exerted on people in any way because something they agreed with their boss would not be moral. I hope that is not what Mr Bashir is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	What people are entitled to, they are entitled to. We cannot do that, but the agreement is that people who want to make use of the departure scheme should really leave the Tax Office. Nor should they be allowed to come back, even as an outsider. I imagine a lot of people who leave the IRS actually like to stay. Then you can see if you can make agreements with each other in such a way that they can still stay within reasonable margins with the Tax Administration on the basis of a good proposal from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr. Chairman. There we are again, talking about the IRS. Tomorrow we will also have a plenary debate on the Tax Administration. My first question to the Secretary of State is when we get the answers, because it is difficult to prepare that debate without the answers to the many questions we have asked. As far as last week's AO is concerned, first of all, compliments to the Committee on Taxation, which has delivered a sound product. After one thing, she did not get the finger, as Mr Joustra and Mr Borstlap themselves pointed out: how could it have gotten to the point where a work-to-work arrangement has suddenly turned into a generous retirement scheme? Hence my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is a complete mystery for both the Committee on Taxation and the Secretary of State as to how the from-work to-work arrangement has suddenly turned into a generic and very generous departure scheme;]] [[Whereas this arrangement was concluded without the knowledge and without the assent of the Secretary of State;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate further this mysterious transformation of the exit scheme, which is now threatening even the continuity of the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-336]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	I'm honestly saying I find this motion a little complicated. We share the bewilderment. The independent committee even calls this 'incomprehensible', but it also writes that it has really been unable to find anything and therefore does not really consider further research useful. So I fully share Mr Van Dijck's frustration, but I am reluctant to spend a lot of euros again on a research which researchers themselves say: no matter how crazy it is, we can't find anything. What indications does Mr Van Dijck have that this will produce anything? If there's any clues to that, of course, I'm always in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	As I indicated in general consultation, a new arrangement has been discussed since 15 November. The Secretary of State was not aware of this until after 15 January. I'd like a closer examination. Then you need to talk to the people involved. I know that the committee has only looked at documents, but I would like to examine them further. Perhaps nothing will come of that, but I find it unacceptable that we, as a Chamber, should allow an arrangement to be put in place from 15 October to 15 January, that irreversible signatures should be signed and that the Secretary of State obviously did not know about it. The trade unions have warned that this might be an arrangement on which the wrong people would sign up, which could jeopardise the continuity of tax collection. It is unacceptable for me as an auditor of this government that we should just let this pass. That's why I want to investigate further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	Finally, Mr Van Weyenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	It is complicated that, even after all these interviews, the committee itself did not find out about them with all these people. As unsatisfactory as that may be, if we ask that again, that will not provide another answer. That's my struggle. Of course, the Secretary of State must confirm that there is no other piece of information or anything else that we do not know yet. I think it would be a good idea for him to confirm this here, but I am struggling with the fact that researchers say that with expensive research euros would be spent but no answers would be found.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	I also advocated further research during the general consultation, but this must of course produce results. I wonder if this will be the case now, because the motion does not call for the questioning of those concerned under oath. If this were to happen, a new path would be set in motion. Now that this isn't done, I wonder if you have any additional leads. Or is it the intention of the motion that those concerned should be heard under oath?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	I do not know any more than that the committee has indicated that she was not getting the finger on it. However, I do not have the impression that the committee really zoomed in on the question of how it could have come to this. I find this mystery of an arrangement from work to work which is turned out to be out of the blue, and I do not use that word for nothing as a generous Vulnerable Scheme, unacceptable, especially because the whole of the Netherlands will have to continue working for up to 67 years, while the officials of the Tax Administration will still have a Vulnerable Scheme. I want a closer investigation. If it shows that an investigation under oath is necessary, we can always ask for it. For the moment, however, I am zooming in on the period from 15 November to 15 January. I have another motion on the recruitment. The Secretary of State's ambition to employ 1,268 people this year is rather high. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of a gold-edged departure scheme, there is a risk of an exodus from the Tax Administration;]] [[whereas the Committee on Taxation warns that the continuity of tax collection as a result of this reorganisation is likely to be compromised;]] [[having noted that this year's Tax Office intends to recruit 1,268 people, including 500 for critical functions;]] [[calls on the Government, as a matter of urgency, to draw up a recruitment plan for 2017 and to send this plan to the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-337]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr. Chairman. This VAO comes after a thick investigation report, written answers to hundreds of parliamentary questions and a general consultation of eight hours about a poorly thought-out departure plan at the Tax Office. It's a story about wasting taxpayers' money and about measures the government will take to get the Tax Administration back on track. The Joustra/Borstlap committee expressed its surprise at the fact that the summit of the Tax Administration could make such far-reaching decisions on its own and without the knowledge of the political leadership and the House of Representatives. Apart from that, the thorough report makes it clear how it can be explained that this departure scheme has gotten out of hand. On the one hand, the unions insisted on a system of departure as broad and voluntary as possible, including for customs and the FIOD (Fiscal Intelligence and Investigation Service). On the other hand, the administration of the Tax Administration wanted to initiate the flow; it was even feared that insufficient staff would be required. This proved to be wrong and it was underlined once again the distance between the administration and the workplace. The tax fine, the RVU tax, was immediately in sight, namely in August 2015, but the size of that tax fine was grossly underestimated. This is also reflected in the memo-under-the-arm of 23 November. The Joustra/Borstlap committee has seen all the documents including the e-mail messages. As the Committee points out, additional research will not provide new insights. We will therefore not support motions on supplementary research. It is now important to focus all energy on the measures that are being implemented to bring the Tax Administration back to the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. We had once again a "painful" debate with the Secretary of State, as Mr Bashir just mentioned, on the direction of the departure scheme. The Secretary of State didn't know about that for months; he explicitly confirmed that. Moreover, the committee could not find anything to suggest that he knew, but that does not make it any less unheard of. Arrangements were negotiated which were not intended at all and the Tax Administration is now imposing RVU taxes on the Tax Administration. Furthermore, there is a new low in this debate: although the Secretary of State said in November that there was a detailed recruitment plan with the aim of recruiting sufficient new staff to ensure the continuity and functioning of the Tax Administration, he had to admit that there was no such recruitment plan at all. With this there is a very big task for this Secretary of State, to get back into control and to put that into practice. This should not be done by introducing one large parafen circus into the Tax Administration, but by sending much more to the main lines of the Investment Agenda, the innovation battle, in order to ensure that we do not get repeats of this kind of drama. Yeah, I need the look forward. I found the information on the recruitment plan extremely worrying. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in November 2016, the Secretary of State for Finance reported that there was a very detailed recruitment plan to recruit new staff;]] [[noting that this recruitment plan does not appear to exist;]] [[Whereas recruiting new staff is crucial for the continuity of the processes at the Tax Administration;]] [[Whereas the Secretary of State is now preparing a recruitment plan and this plan is urgently needed;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up and inform the Chamber of the detailed recruitment plan as soon as possible and by 1 April 2017 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-338]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	Finally, I would also like to ask where the answers to the questions arising from the broadcast of ZEMBLA remain. The Chamber had asked if it could receive it yesterday so that it could prepare tomorrow's debate properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Chamber held a wide-ranging debate which lasted more than eight hours. I myself see the tail of that debate because Mr Omtzigt cannot be here because of obligations relating to the Brexit. During the debate, the Secretary of State outlined a timeline, but in some cases there is still some sort of black hole. This concerns in particular the period between 1 and 21 November 2015. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the departure scheme looked completely different from what the Secretary of State had intended and in his words "ordered";]] [[having noted that the total cost of this scheme exceeds EUR 600 million, EUR 400 million higher than estimated;]] [[noting that the wrong staff made use of the departure scheme, so that almost 1,000 staff had to be replaced immediately and staff had to be transferred to other posts;]] [[calls on the Government to commission an independent investigation into the decision-making process surrounding the departure scheme between 1 and 21 November 2015,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ronnes and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-339]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	I note that this motion is somewhat similar to the motion tabled by Mr Van Dijck of the PVV. I would be happy to look with him after the debate to see if we can make a single motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	The last motion will be copied and distributed. Would you like a moment's suspension, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	Then I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u28	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u29	Mr. Chairman. In a debate of so many hours, of course, the subjects of the motions also come along. So I can stay short now. I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Bashir on part No. 335. In order to reassure Mr Bashir, I say that most of the movers will of course not leave until 2018 or much later. So people don't leave right away. In the preliminary stage, there have been many more applications than people are leaving. More than 2,000 people have given up. Against this background and against the background of the fact that this is now a legally binding whole, which people have thought very much about, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u30	Mr Bashir, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u31	I think it's really incomprehensible. The motion asks us to think about new ideas for holding people. I'm talking about the people who are needed by the IRS. Of course, it takes some time and effort, but this is much better than having a Tax Service without people in crucial positions, putting tax collection at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u32	In the preliminary phase, the department and the staff involved have given a great deal of thought. In some cases there is also thought outside the box. Now we have reached a point where people have made an informed decision. They have a right to be certain of that. I said a few things about it in the debate. I also appreciate Mr Bashir's call for out-of-the-box proposals. The IRS needs more of that, but in this case, I'm not recommending the motion. Mr Van Dijck calls in his motion for a resolution for item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 339. The committee's opinion is quite clear, namely that more research will not change the conclusions. There's been a very broad look, not just at pieces. Moreover, it is not about finding guilty but about exposing causes. I think we shared around the table, in those eight hours, that there is a lot to be seen in those causes and that the Tax Administration should have time to work on the future. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u33	You are talking about Mr Van Dijck's motion, but I would also like to include the Ronnes/Omtzigt motion, because these motions are very similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u34	Sure. I dissuade both motions. I also referred to Mr Ronnes' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u35	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u36	Nevertheless, I see that Mr Van Weyenberg has a question about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u37	Sure. I want to be able to make a proper assessment to my group. Can the Secretary of State guarantee that all the documents of all the people who have spoken or written about this, all the e-mails and thus the information from the period 1 to 21 November have been completely withdrawn? Can the Secretary of State guarantee that the committee has been able to see all this information?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u38	Of course, Mr Van Weyenberg knows that I cannot possibly answer this question, because a person does not know what he does not know. I didn't run the investigation, in fact, I kept some distance from the investigation. I certainly shouldn't have done that either, because I was also the subject of the investigation. I can never know what else I don't know and what the Chamber doesn't know. I know that the committee has been given the free hand and has been given access to all conceivable documents and persons. The committee itself has come to the conclusion that it would not have reached any other conclusions if it had had more information. Of course, I can't give you any further guarantee. Mr Van Weyenberg knows that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u39	This point has also been sufficiently exchanged in general consultations, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u40	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. However, it is now a question of drawing political conclusions. We haven't discussed this exactly yet. So I understand that the Secretary of State has not done his own search and that he does not want to investigate whether all the information is really up the table. I agree with the Secretary of State that it is not about pointing out guilty, but it is about knowing exactly what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u41	It's about exposing the causes. They've been extensively exposed. I really still have the intention of keeping my distance from that investigation, because people shouldn't get involved in any investigation they might be involved in. So I can't give you that guarantee. I can guarantee that the committee has been given access to all these things. The Commission itself concludes that the conclusions will not change if more information is provided. I hope that is enough for Mr Van Weyenberg to come to his political conclusions. He asks a relevant but unanswerable question. Then I come to the motion on part No. Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck (Commission); Mr Van Dijck I have already promised to come in April with information not only on recruitment in terms of the plans but also on the first results on entry, interest and the atmosphere in the labour market and on how we can succeed. I promised, and I wanted to stick to that. I share Mr Van Dijck's request that a recruitment plan be drawn up as a matter of urgency, although I do disagree with a number of considerations in that motion. By the way, I am not going to be able to send that plan to the Chamber within a month, why it is being asked in that motion. The word 'April' in the operative part of Mr Van Weyenberg's motion is good in itself, but that does not apply to the figure 1 that stands for it. Should Mr Van Weyenberg take out that 1 and replace it with the word 'in' so that it will say 'in April', I shall leave the motion to the House's judgement. I would also like to give the same consideration to Mr Van Dijck to change the operative part of his motion as such. In any case, that is the deadline within which I want to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u42	The Secretary of State says he wants to share first experiences in April. Then it's not so weird that that plan has to be between now and seven weeks? How else can you share first experiences? I actually sympathize with Mr Van Dijck: a month. I understand that things are complicated and that it has to be careful. I think it's a very reasonable request and I maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u43	Then I advise against both motions. By the way, I agree that we are working very hard on this recruitment. That's what this is about. Finally, the question of when will the answers be? They come in the first half of the afternoon. They're coming as soon as they can, but it was quite a package. It's being worked hard, and it's gonna be done soon. It's coming to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-08-tweedekamer-4.u44	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
