ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister, to welcome Members and, of course, to welcome those who follow the debate in the public gallery or in any other way. This is a 30-member debate, which means that we have a three-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Voluntary cessation of life in people with mental health problems is a sensitive issue. That's what the National Platform Psychic Health writes. I couldn't have said it better. Everyone is aware that this is a group of vulnerable people who are subject to due care in dealing with their desire for voluntary termination of life down to the superb stage. This group of people is diverse. In some cases, voluntary end-of-life is the best outcome for the person concerned, not in others. The correct weighting of this problem is extremely important in order to be able to offer proper treatment. All people with complex mental illness should receive the professional attention they need. It is important that the psychiatrist knows the patient well so that the patient's death wish can be properly weighed. An article in Trouw of June 2 shows that the Life End Clinic is too busy with psychiatric patients. Patients have to deal with long waiting times. The increase in people with complex mental problems at the Life End Clinic seems to have a number of causes. Psychiatrists suffer from a high administrative burden that is difficult to combine with passing through the complex and time-consuming euthanasia desire. This indicates the urgency of reducing the administrative burden. Since last year, some improvements have already been made in dealing with bureaucracy. Can the Minister indicate how the consultations between the ggz, VWS, the LHV and ZN are going on? Does the Minister see any new possibilities to reduce the workload for psychiatrists? What improvements can we expect in what period? Not all psychiatrists are involved in euthanasia. If a psychiatrist doesn't want that, he or she should be able to transfer a patient to a colleague in the region. In order for this transfer to go well, it is important that psychiatrists in a region are aware of each other's position on this matter. The evaluation of the Euthanasia Act recommends facilitating a network of psychiatrists that is open to euthanasia requests. I would like to hear from the Minister how she feels about this. In addition, it is important that psychiatrists with questions or doubts in the treatment of a patient with a death wish can rely on external expertise. The Life End Clinic is developing information modules to solve knowledge shortages. Does the Minister see a role for himself to promote the development of knowledge about euthanasia among psychiatrists? Does she see opportunities to pay more attention to ethics and euthanasia in psychiatric training? I hope that we can discuss this issue with great care here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. The impressive stories and complex choices surrounding the theme euthanasia at psychiatry were sometimes painfully evident during a hearing in 2014 here in this Chamber. I call the story of Elena Lindemans, who didn't make the documentary Mother's jumping out of flats. Her mother's request for euthanasia was not dealt with, after which she saw no other way out. Or the stories of the Euthanasia Foundation in Psychiatry, founded by mothers for whom the death wish of their child became felt, but who did not receive any help. It's a plea to take the death wish seriously, however complicated. Euthanasia in psychiatry is the subject of social discussion. Therefore, specific attention has been paid to this in the third evaluation of the euthanasia law. That's what we're gonna talk about. This evaluation shows that the support for euthanasia in psychiatric patients has decreased: 63% consider it unthinkable. Can the Minister reflect on this? However, it appears that the absolute number of applications at the Life-Ending Clinic is increasing, with the absolute number of requests, resulting in long waiting periods of six to nine months. A psychiatrist at the Life End Clinic calls these waiting times "frustrating" and also notes that the treating physician knows the patient best. Does the Minister also consider that it would be preferable for one's own doctor to deal with the request? How could this be promoted? And how can knowledge and expertise be shared? A request for euthanasia from a psychiatric patient is very complex, as has been said. It requires great caution and is not common. Does the Minister think that the support point currently provides sufficient support? The Chairman of the Support Point thinks that psychiatrists may be too easily referring to the Life End Clinic at the moment, because the procedure takes a lot of time and the administrative burden has increased. The Minister states in her response that if so, she finds this worrying. I share that view. Of course, we have to find out. Does this indeed play a major role? And can the Minister indicate what it is doing, in addition to the measures already taken, to reduce the administrative burden? Another reason that psychiatrists call not wanting to apply euthanasia in psychiatry is the suboptimal functioning of the ggz, mental health care. That too is worrying. If a psychiatrist considers that someone has not yet had sufficient treatment, the conditions of care for hopeless suffering cannot be met. That's one of the conditions. It cannot be verified whether everything has actually been done and that is part of the assessment. However, this should not be a reason not to be willing in advance to assess termination of life in psychiatric patients. What does the Minister think about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The SGP fraction is very concerned about the increase in cases of euthanasia in psychiatric patients. Our concern is above all: does the current euthanasia law in practice provide adequate protection for vulnerable psychiatric patients? We note that this is also the theme on which many psychiatrists are increasingly concerned. Psychiatrist Chabot, who was just back in the news, indicated that he was at first much more positive, but now is also concerned about the effects this may have. I want to put a concrete and important item here. I was shocked by the personal stories that have reached us in recent times, which showed that the initiative can sometimes come from the staff of the institution itself. It is said to a psychiatric patient: you have very serious problems; are you aware that the end-of-life clinic can also provide a solution in such cases? A direct link is made with the Life-End Clinic "that's the window where you can go" separate from a treatment relationship. If this is given as a treatment option, it puts pressure on a patient. It is undoubtedly happening in a very positive way, because one wants and thinks to help someone with that. But I wonder what the protocols are like in that respect, including in psychiatry. Can and can the initiative come from outside the patient in this way? Three minutes is, of course, far too short for the complex problem we are dealing with here. It is very important that we hold a good round table on this subject, which has already been decided by the Chamber of Representatives for VWS, also in connection with the evaluation of euthanasia legislation. That will take place after the summer. However, I would like to highlight the point I just made as a sign from the practical point of view. I would also like to comment on the fact that psychiatrist Boudewijn Chabot is bringing forward, namely that the foundation of the euthanasia law on psychiatric patients is being quietly eroded. A hollowing out that Den Hartogh put it like: the patient suffers unbearably when he says he suffers unbearably and an alternative is not a reasonable alternative if the patient rejects it. Does this not in fact undermine the protection afforded by the euthanasia law in practice by this development? I would also like a response from the Minister to this concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. Life in this time of social media with perfect Facebook profiles is not easy, especially for young people who are still trying to shape their lives. If you're not Facebook perfect, you're out of the boat. Makes you feel like you don't matter. That's gonna kill someone's self-image. Actually, it's hardly surprising that so many people are depressed these days. We read in Trouw that the Life End Clinic has such a large influx of psychiatric patients that she can't handle it. What do we have to do to solve these problems? We've heard a few things. Should we increase the capacity of the Life End Clinic or should we consider the cause of this large influx? The most disturbing signal in the article in Trouw is that there seems to be a link between the problems in the ggz and requests for euthanasia. People feel mangled in the system. They see countless aid workers and they don't feel heard. Jim van Os, professor of psychiatric epidemiology at the UMC, puts it as follows: "The care often does not fit in with people's problems. The ggz is a diagnostic treatment production company with little focus on hope, recovery and identity." I think he's hitting the nail on the head. We discussed the lack of good places in the youth ggz yesterday. The bed dismantling in the ggz goes far too fast, while the outpatient care is not at all in order. People with mental problems have been without help for so long, so their problems are only getting bigger. People with dementia and chronic psychiatric diseases are often no longer better, but can still be helped to cope better with life. It is precisely in this group that the financial decorating of care has affected the quality of life. The evaluation of the euthanasia law, which appeared a few weeks ago, showed that six out of ten psychiatrists have reservations about the current euthanasia law. This is probably due to the large increase in applications. Therefore, the first concrete recommendation from the review committee is to investigate the underlying cause of the increasing number of euthanasia cases. Exactly! The fact that someone is asking for euthanasia because they do not experience enough help is really unacceptable and unworthy. For 50PLUS it is therefore quite understandable that psychiatrists are increasingly struggling with this. This is a signal that cannot be ignored. Get things in order in the ggz. Make sure that adequate and tailored psychiatric care is available. Let's start by looking at the underlying cause right away. Then we can do something about that. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	You mean the Minister, Mrs Marijnissen, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin this debate with a quote from the evaluation of the euthanasia law. "The arguments put forward by psychiatrists against the cessation of life on request in psychiatric patients include the question of whether there is a need to contribute to the cessation of life on demand if the quality of mental health care is not sufficient. Psychiatrists often refuse requests for help with suicide because of personal reasons and/or because the due diligence requirements cannot be met. In most cases where the request is refused, referral is made to the End of Life Clinic." The subject we are discussing today is very complex. I actually sympathise with Mr Van der Staaij. He indicated that it is somewhat difficult to put it mildly to do this well and carefully in three minutes. We are talking about people in the most vulnerable phase of their lives, namely the phase in life in which you doubt the perspective of life. They're very vulnerable people. It's also about the question of life and death. And what's more important than that? In these three minutes, the SP wants to put down one point that it thinks is extremely important and which it actually considers unacceptable. That is the point that the aid workers and psychiatrists are currently expressing doubts about the care they can take in assessing the requests for voluntary termination of life, euthanasia. They doubt whether they can be careful because they doubt the quality of the work, i.e. the care they can provide. We find that unacceptable in a rich country like ours. Last week, in the NRC, Chabot gave another one of those signals. Aid workers, the people who are responsible and do the day-to-day work, themselves indicate that they have doubts about the quality of the work they can provide. As a result, they doubt the quality of care, whereas they feel that they should respect it. We find that very worrying. For the SP, the treatment relationship between the aid worker and the patient is paramount. That's what we most believe in. It is therefore difficult for us that this treatment relationship at the Life End Clinic is just broken through. We can imagine that it is already very complex with a treatment relationship to be able to make a good weighting in such cases. I just said something about that. But what would that be like without the treatment relationship? Doesn't that make it much more complex? Finally. It is clear that the problems in mental health care are great. Last night we had an extensive debate on our youth in this context, on the Emmas of this world. How long does the Minister think this has to go on? At present we actually see this in the newspapers every week and we hear examples of it on the radio. We would like to ask the Minister how she intends to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. According to the Act of Review on termination of life upon request and assistance in suicide, there is no need for a physical illness for euthanasia. The euthanasia law therefore also sees unbearable and hopeless suffering of psychiatric patients. In the Chabot judgment of 1993 the Supreme Court made exceptional caution as a condition for psychiatric patients. The desire to die is often part of the disease, which makes the demand for an informed request even more severe. The CDA shares the view of the Supreme Court that therefore, psychiatric patients should always be asked further. The article that was in the news said that the End of Life Clinic refers among other things to the decreasing willingness of psychiatrists to grant euthanasia. For this purpose, they refer to the figures from the third review of the Life Abort Act, which was recently sent to the Chamber. Several colleagues have already referred to this evaluation. That is a large report of more than 300 pages, which we hope will soon be able to discuss with a new minister. I have another question for this Minister. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that there is no point in talking about some selective figures from that evaluation, without looking at all the data and developments in conjunction? I'll mention a few complications. How do these figures relate to the fact that the number of cases of euthanasia in psychiatry has increased significantly over the same period? In her letter, the Minister states that the number of referrals of psychiatric patients to the End of Life clinic is increasing in absolute terms, but not relative. That is because the total number of euthanasia cases, somatic and psychiatric, has increased enormously over the last ten years. This raises other questions that we cannot answer quickly and simply at the moment. We can only find out if we discuss all the data comprehensively and coherently. As far as we are concerned, a short 30-member debate is not the place for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Gerbrands. She speaks on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. The parts of this debate, i.e. ggz and euthanasia, have been declared controversial. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, we would not have been here today, let alone discussing this sensitive subject in a 30-member debate. I have a brief contribution to make. Looking at the facts, there is no significant increase in the number of psychiatric patients knocking on the door at the End of Life Clinic. This increase is in line with the increase in patients with other conditions. The Regional Review Committees do report a slight increase in the number of requests for euthanasia made in psychiatric patients. However, this has been the case for a number of years and not the reason for this debate. My group regrets the resistance of psychiatrists to a request for euthanasia. They are not obliged to do so, but I wonder where that resistance comes from. We have a law that ensures that requests for euthanasia are carefully established and that all kinds of criteria are first met. If the law is complied with, the request should be followed regardless of the patient's condition. Whether there is a connection with other problems in the ggz, financial or organizational, as this article suggests, needs to be examined in more detail as far as I am concerned. Of course, lack of time or money should never play a role in euthanasia requests. Also psychiatric patients may at some point have been treated and lead unbearable and hopeless. Let us prevent these people from jumping into the train out of despair. Their request for euthanasia must be followed within the rules of the law. We are talking about this law and about the third review of the law at a later date. We will then take all aspects of psychiatry and euthanasia with us and carefully weigh them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Rutte. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. Euthanasia is a sensitive subject. Euthanasia for people with mental impairment is particularly sensitive and complex. The third evaluation of the Euthanasia Act has recently been published, as has the annual report of the Regional Review Committees. These are interesting reports which the VVD Group wishes to discuss extensively with a missionary minister. As Mr van der Staaij said, there is therefore a wide-ranging round table on this sensitive subject. That's how we're supposed to do it. Today, however, we have, and suddenly we have, a 30-member debate on this extremely sensitive subject. This has been achieved with the almost minimum number of 30 Members who have supported the request for a debate. This thirty-member debate has come about thanks to the support of the Party for Animals. Five members, but they're not here today. Mr. Chairman. I would ask that this be discussed at the Bureau. I really do not think it is possible for us to have this kind of extremely sensitive debate with the support of those who do not even bother to be present. It's actually unacceptable. I just needed to get this off my chest. It will be clear that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that a 30-member debate is not the appropriate means for this complex issue. That is why I will make a very limited contribution today. I thank the Minister for her letter. She clearly explains her commitment and remains in favour of improving the quality of the ggz and combating the stigma that unfortunately still suffers from mental illness. It is also good to read that the suggested huge increase in euthanasia applications at the Life End Clinic due to psychological suffering does not seem to exist. A patient who expresses a death wish during treatment in the ggz should be able to count on good care. The declaration of the death wish is a request for help, for care. It is therefore very important that the ggz does not take a step backwards at such a time in patients, but rather a step forward, towards good research, towards good treatment. If it really doesn't offer any more solace, there will be support for a euthanasia request. There is an organisation in our country that has already taken great steps in this area and that has a great deal of knowledge. I'm talking 113 suicide prevention. There is really a lot of knowledge there about people who suffer psychologically and have a dying wish. This organisation can and wants to transfer knowledge about how best to guide and treat people. Is the Minister prepared to consult with 113 Suicide Prevention to see how this knowledge, perhaps even better than it is now, can be made available to regular mental health care? Mr President, I should like to leave it at that for today. We're going to discuss this in greater detail at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to reply in the first term. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. We are gathered here because the Chamber has asked for a debate on euthanasia in people with mental illness. In the run-up to this debate, I sent a letter to the Chamber. I agree with those Members who say that a 30-member debate is not the most appropriate way to discuss this complex issue, also because, as Mrs Bruins Slot said, you are zooming in on one aspect that you take from the evaluation, which threatens to miss the broader perspective. That is why I would like to mention a number of facts in advance, and I would like to apologize for them, in order to give them a little perspective. The number of euthanasia requests from psychiatric patients at the Life End Clinic has increased in proportion to the number of requests from patients with other conditions. There is an absolute increase, but not a relative increase. Perhaps it would be a good idea for us to re-assess what we are talking about in this debate. I use the figures of the Euthanasia Regional Review Committees for this purpose. In 2016, these review committees received 6,091 reports of euthanasia, 4% of the total number of people who died in the Netherlands in 2016. In 2015, it accounted for 3.75% of the total mortality rate. The increase in the number of reports of euthanasia in 2016 remains relatively small. This limited increase is also not due to the number of granted euthanasia requests from people with psychiatric illness. Let's take a more specific look at that. In 2015, there were 56 reports. In 2016, there were 60 reports. From 56 to 60: so we're talking about four more reports. By comparison, the total number of reports increased by 575 to over 6,000. In proportion to the total number of reports of euthanasia, the number of reports of euthanasia in people with psychiatric illness is still around 1%. In 2015, the Life End Clinic was involved in 36 euthanasia cases where psychiatric problems were the main reason for providing help. In 2016, there were 46 cases. That is indeed a considerable increase, also relative. However, this is not in itself crazy, because the Life End Clinic focuses on complex euthanasia issues as a centre of expertise. The third evaluation of the euthanasia law shows that the number of explicit requests to psychiatrists for suicide aid rose to 1,100 in 2016. It's true that 46% of psychiatrists had to deal with that. The report also states that the number of psychiatrists who consider it unthinkable to provide suicide aid was already very high in 1995, 53%. So psychiatrists are always very reluctant, which of course isn't crazy. Some of you said it already. Of course, it can also be part of the disease that you have a death wish. The number of psychiatrists who do participate in a request has also increased. It was always a very small number, 2% in 1995 that is really very low and it is now 4%, which is still low.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	The Minister shows a number of figures which might be a bit of a conclusion that it is actually not that bad with that increase and that it is not all that spectacular. Figures are of course patient. Compared to 2010, so seven years ago, it was 2 and now it's 60 reports, which is 30 times as much in seven years. Figures do not say very much in this respect, but it is clear that there is a constant increase that is causing increasing concern in society. Isn't that just a fact that we and doctors have to deal with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	There is also an increase in the total number of euthanasia requests. We are also dealing with a completely different patient population than 30 years ago. It was very different back then. People think a lot more about how they want to die. In the context of this problem, I myself have talked to a great many people about this. For example, I've heard many times: I've seen my father die. People look for knowledge, stand more consciously in life and think much more about time and what they want for themselves. That does not alter the fact that this is a very precarious subject. Of course you can say anything with numbers, but I did not ask for a 30-member debate. Then you're tied to the short term, yet you want to make something clear. Overall, there is an increase and the number of psychiatric patients increases. In dementia, it's very different. The discussion there is of a much more recent date, but there is also a very different view on the question: how do I look at myself when I have been diagnosed and what does that mean? So these people don't feel the same way as they did 20 years ago. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	I believe that dementia and psychiatry are experiencing an ever-increasing increase, as well as a concern on the part of the profession and in society about whether this is going well. Although this debate is not entirely appropriate for this to happen, we will certainly come back to it later, but there is still a fact to which I would like to hear the Minister's response. If in such a high percentage of psychiatric patients euthanasia occurs through the Life End Clinic, almost three-quarters of the number, and there is also the philosophy that in principle there is no treatment relationship, isn't that a worrying cocktail, a worrying combination in the eyes of the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	Not for me. The Life-End Clinic expertise centre is invoked in complex cases and that is what we are talking about here. I would not like to say that this is something where we put a point and then stop looking at it. I offered to the Chamber the third evaluation without a position, because I am a missionary. I would like to comment wholeheartedly, but I can imagine that the SGP Group is saying: well, let it be left to a new cabinet because you are a missionary. So I know my place. For example, with regard to dementia, a number of years ago I wrote a hand delivery together with the Ministry of Security and Justice and the KNMG, because of course it is extremely complex. If people are still self-conscious and can judge what they want all by themselves, then that is a different situation than when people are so advanced in the disease process that they can no longer declare it at that time but have explicitly indicated it in advance. That was the moment I talked to Els Borst about. He said: it can't be that we don't give these people any space at all. Parliament in the Netherlands has decided that it can do so. That's why I had a legal analysis and a practical analysis done. I didn't go ice in one night; I think we've been working on it for, like, a year and a half. A hand-out has been started very carefully on that. Is that why I think it's really easy and just something? No, it's extremely complex and difficult. I also welcome the fact that we in Parliament are keeping our finger on the pulse, following very closely what is happening and wondering how we feel about it. Euthanasia is complex, it's a very complex process. If the cause is somatic, this is already true, but in people with mental illness it is even more complex. We all know that. Before a request is granted, it should be carefully established that all legal criteria have been met. For people with psychiatric illness, extra attention will be paid to the treatment options, the deliberateness of the request and the unbearableness and hopelessness of suffering. It is important that euthanasia is special care, to which a patient can make a request. It is up to the doctor to decide for himself whether he wishes to respond to that request. If not, it may refer the patient to a doctor who may wish to perform the euthanasia. But then too, all due diligence will have to be met if the request is to be properly accepted. If I look further at the figures, I see that in the last five years, only once a report of euthanasia in a person with a psychiatric condition has been considered careless. In 2014, we also discussed this extensively in this Chamber. On the basis of this case and the 2012 evaluation report, several actions have been taken. In 2015, the Dutch Association for Psychiatry started a working group to review its directive on euthanasia in patients with psychiatric illness and the KNMG has prepared an amended factsheet. The regional review committees have also amended their code of practice and a psychiatrist has been appointed to the regional review committees. Since then, none of the more than 100 reports of euthanasia in a patient with a psychiatric condition have been considered careless. Mr. Chairman. I think we should be very careful to establish relations with things that we cannot support. You can always make relationships and say that it's the care, loneliness or the fact that we don't care about each other. I think that's really too easy. I also think it is a danger to mix these debates. That is why I absolutely want to distance myself from that reasoning. I think it is also important that we continue to divorce in Parliament. Euthanasia is a precarious, medically very special operation. Almost always sad, sometimes a liberation and always difficult. We are not talking about one night of ice, not as policy makers, not as medical professionals and not as regulators. We must also be careful to draw conclusions too lightly and quickly or to establish links. This does not do justice to the care with which this law has been made and with which it is applied. Euthanasia in psychiatric patients or in dementia patients is possible, but requires even more of everyone. The fact that this is possible, I have already said, is decided here, in this Parliament. I didn't write about euthanasia in dementia for nothing, along with our partners. I can also imagine, also knowing how the profession thinks about it not only for decades now but also for decades now, that we are looking at euthanasia in psychiatric patients and not just at dementias and looking at how better it can be done, or specific research can be done to help psychiatrists better. Anyway, I'm a little ahead of my successor. Can we share a very good suggestion about the knowledge at 113Online, where that can help each other, with daily practice? I think that is a very intelligent way of looking at this issue, and also at what is happening in practice and how we can better connect it. The third evaluation will be discussed. In the case of dementia, we have written the manual, because this was really necessary, indicated by doctors and indicated by practice. In psychiatry, we've already taken measures. In the past, a psychiatrist was not consulted automatically. Well, now it is. I can imagine that further steps will be taken here to improve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	I am very pleased with the Minister's answer. I am also pleased that she is taking part in the way in which we could look at this when we discuss the third evaluation. An addition to my side is that the Life End Clinic is also a knowledge and expertise centre where a lot is being built up in this area. Does the Minister also see the added value of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	I thought that was obvious. The Life End Clinic has become our knowledge center. You need to strengthen the knowledge there. The Life End Clinic is now in the process of helping doctors who say euthanasia could be an opportunity for people with dementia who have explicitly, deliberately and fully consciously discussed it well with doctors and their environment and have written a euthanasia statement to their general practitioner or even to the notary. The Life End Clinic wants to help doctors who are open to this and say: I can feel what my patient wanted and I can agree to that. There's a handout written for that. I can imagine that the Life End Clinic, where the expertise is, will explore with psychiatrists how these psychiatrists can be helped. So this doesn't apply to all psychiatrists. There will always be psychiatrists who say, "I don't want this." That's a legitimate decision. We can do that in the Netherlands. Any doctor can do that, including a psychiatrist. However, there are psychiatrists who need more support or who need more help. I think we should be open to that and see how we can do it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	This is enough for Mrs Dijkstra. There is another question from Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	Following Mrs Dijkstra's question, does the Minister also see the need to pay more attention to this sensitive subject in psychiatric training? Does the Minister see a role for the Life End Clinic to share her knowledge in the courses?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	It is always a bit annoying that I have to say that the psychiatrists naturally determine the content and curriculum of their own courses. I can imagine the following, given the practice and what is going on here. In the conversation between the Life End Clinic and the psychiatrists on how to do this better, it may also be possible to discuss how this topic is dealt with in the training. Is it being treated at all? Is it being treated in the right way? Perhaps this issue can be taken into account in the very complex field of how to make up for these considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	I have received a number of questions about which it is interesting to philosophize, but of which I really wonder what its added value is. I felt called to say this, because I really think that if we do this... we've been very serious about this matter over the past few years. How can we develop this further? How can we help doctors? How can we help patients? A public version of the hand-held euthanasia in dementia has also been made for patients: Imagine me; what should I look for? In psychiatric patients, we should also develop this. A lot of questions are actually about the third evaluation. I wonder if I should go into that now. The network of psychiatrists is of course also important. For example, you will have to include the following questions in this matter. How can we do better? How can we equip the support point better? What else can we do for each other? They then asked how the consultation between Zorgverzekerings Nederland, LHV, GGZ Nederland and the ministry of VWS is going to reduce administrative burden. We have spent an incredible amount of time on it. At the same time, I am very modest about what that means. I think I started working with the VVD Group in 1993. From that time on, I am working on black books, action plans and discussing how we can actually reduce the administrative burden. The measurements we take at national level always come out pretty well, and if it doesn't come out well, we take action. But my personal conclusion is that all these measurements only say to a relative extent something about what the people who really work in the field feel about that. They can feel very different things than we measure here abstractly. On the basis of the measurements we can find that we are doing well, but meanwhile professionals feel up to their necks in the forms. That's why I embraced the initiative of the GPs when they started "The Rudder Must Om." I thought: yes, finally from the bottom. That's the way you have to do it. We have had an intensive journey. Many administrative burdens have been removed. At the same time I said: that's fine, we measured; general practitioners also say that they feel it, but if we don't pay attention, it grows up again just as quickly. GPs make it even easier than if you want to do it at the hospital. The oncologists have different administrative burdens than the pediatricians, and they have different specialists than other specialists. But you have to do it from the bottom of each other. It doesn't work from above. We have put in place a lot of actions. Members can find in the progress reports what we have already done in this way. But I'm sure we're not done. This is really something that politics needs to get on with. We really need to help professionals to further reduce this administrative burden. On the other hand, I find it too easy to say that we do not have the euthanasia requests due to administrative burdens. That conclusion has been drawn far too quickly. The link between what happens in the ggz and the euthanasia discussion is a bit too easy and superficial for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	I share the Minister's view that we must be very careful to establish a causal link between problems in a sector and the whole euthanasia issue. At the same time, however, psychiatrists give the signal that they spend so much time on administrative burdens and that this is at the expense of a good treatment relationship with patients. Especially in patients with a complex care question, it's complicated. This may play a part in referring to the end of life clinic. It is complicated, and I share that with the Minister, but that does not mean that we need to examine this carefully and, in any case, we need to do something about the administrative burden on psychiatrists. That's right, it's gonna work if it comes from the bottom. That's what the GPs showed you. We need to work on this permanently. Does the Minister have a role to play in bringing this to the attention of the psychiatrists' association? Is the initiative of the general practitioners already being considered and can this serve as a good example for the psychiatrists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	We have done the same with them in the past year. We have done the same path for reducing the burden in the ggz, with the psychiatrists, with the patients, with the institutions and with the health insurance companies. That's exactly the same trajectory. So much has happened, but not enough. But I would like to separate the administrative burden in relation to euthanasia from it. Euthanasia will entail administrative burdens. Why? We have a review committee. It must be able to ascertain exactly what happened there. So, on the one hand, there are administrative burdens in the daily practice of a psychiatrist, for which we must do everything we can to reduce them. On the other hand, there are the administrative burdens of euthanasia. I am not convinced that we can do much about this now. A psychiatrist will have to prove and write down in such a way that he has followed a careful procedure that the Regional Review Committee can ultimately check whether that has happened. Those administrative burdens will always be there, but they also have a general practitioner. A general practitioner must also write down exactly why he can feel that there is unbearable and hopeless suffering, whether there were treatment options and whether there was an euthanasia statement. I really don't intend to do anything about that administrative burden. After all, we must be able to check that out and continue to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	Finalizing, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	It's a matter of care and care. This also entails administrative burdens. Unnecessary administrative measures should be taken. Yet psychiatrists indicate that they do not come to such an intensive journey with a patient with a death wish. I think this is a point of conversation with psychiatrists. It should not be the case that a professional group cannot respond to a question of a patient with a complex mental illness. That is made clear in that article and, as far as I am concerned, that is at the heart of this debate. It should not be the case that there is insufficient attention in mental health care to groups with complex care needs. That's something that needs to be solved. The Minister cannot do that alone, but I do see it as a task of politics and the field to see how we can solve this problem, so that these patients get the care they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	I agree. At the same time, the administrative burden will always remain heavy when it comes to euthanasia, because you have to register it somehow. I imagine we're going to have a conversation. That is also my advice: see how you can tackle this complex issue. Because this is much more complex than somatic problems; I don't have to convince anyone of that. At the same time, this complexity, if you want to do it carefully, must also be felt afterwards. Then you not only have to deal with a complex care process, which already requires a lot from a psychiatrist, but also with a very careful recording of that trajectory. As a result, a RTE, or possibly a judge like a RTE, may say that it wasn't careful, later check what happened. That is what we agreed on here, and not unjustly, because this must remain verifiable. If it's any easier, we'll have to do it easier. But it's never gonna be easy. If a course of dementia is started from the Chamber and a new ruler, I would imagine that you would be paying attention to the question: how can we do better, but in such a way that it still happens carefully and is searchable? According to the SGP, the initiative can also come from outside a patient, namely from traders. I didn't get those signals. Perhaps Mr Van der Staaij means that traders say: 'Oh, you have such a serious illness; have you ever thought about euthanasia?' I don't know if that's what he meant, but I don't recognize that. I've never heard of that. It may, of course, appear in conversations at some point that there is hopeless and unbearable suffering. Then the end-of-life clinic can come up in that conversation. In any case, we have ensured that the RTEs have a code of practice that states that in the case of psychiatric patients, a psychiatrist must be consulted. That's very important. We entered that after 2014. Earlier that didn't have to be a psychiatrist; now it is. After all, it has to be tested whether it comes intrinsically from patients themselves, whether they want it themselves or whether it has not been imposed from the outside. That test must always be performed. The NVvP has also stated in a directive that an additional psychiatrist should be consulted. Psychic expertise has also been added to the Euthanasia Review Committee. So we've strengthened the psychiatric leg very much throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	I would like to give a more detailed explanation of the case I was referring to. I don't know if it happens more often, but I understand that in one case, not so much the psychiatrist, but above all the care staff in an institution has said to a young psychiatric patient: do you know that there is also the possibility to have you helped in the Life End clinic? I was kind of worried about that. If something like this is put on the table in a vulnerable environment as a suggestion, it can lead its own life and also put pressure on patients. I was simply wondering if there are codes that determine how healthcare workers should handle this, because well-meaning advice can be very risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	That's always the hard part about an individual case, because I don't know what happened before that. Has this been said because of the fact that a psychiatrist said: I cannot fulfill your wish? Did it come up after that? As a minister, I cannot judge that in such an individual case. I do know that we've all arranged it very tightly. The intrinsic motivation for that desire must come from oneself. We have strengthened the review in many ways. Of course, there is then a debate in society on these kinds of issues, which are so profound and important. I think that's only good. Of course, I have also read Mr Chabot's article, opinion and views in the NRC, as have those of Mr Jacob Kohnstamm. One will say that Chabot is right, while I myself was pleased with the interview with Mr Jacob Kohnstamm, who spoke very carefully about this and went into it in that way. It also depends on your own point of view how you judge that. I also think that there is a debate which is very important and very good. The debate on euthanasia has not ended with the introduction of a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	The Minister actually compares two newspaper articles and says that it depends on your own view of the matter how you look at those articles, but I absolutely do not agree with her and have a question about that. It was Chabot now, but you can also name any other aid worker who has to deal with it daily in practice. Shouldn't politics have faith in those people, regardless of the views of you, me or others about a voluntary end to life? Shouldn't you take the signal from people who work daily in practice very seriously? Aren't you supposed to see these things apart from each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	Chabot is not an aid worker who is now working daily in practice, but an opinion-maker and an important person in this debate. With regard to euthanasia, it is very important to listen carefully to people who work with it on a daily basis. If you listen to people who work with it daily, you will also hear very different views. Over the past year I have talked a lot with people who work in daily practice, about euthanasia and about completed life. There are very different views there. I think that, at least in mine for 20 or 30 years, there has been a very intense debate on this issue, in which doctors, nurses and patients are very actively involved. I can tell you that they often disagree. It is important, however, that this has also been done in the case of dementia............................................................................................................ That is precisely why I am saying here that this third evaluation, and what can be read in it, could be a reason for this. That is also what doctors, patients and relatives of patients who have committed suicide because they have not been heard by the care provider have said. It should be a reason to perhaps follow such a path, where you say: we are talking about a very special group that requires very special and precarious medical care, so we need to zoom in a little more and look with patients and caregivers at how we can improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	Finalizing, Mrs. Marijnisssen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	I started my first term with a quote from the evaluation which clearly showed that it is certainly not just a story of opinion-maker Chabot, but of aid workers themselves, the psychiatrists. They indicate that because they have doubts as to the quality they can deliver, they also have doubts as to the due diligence they wish to observe. That is something we cannot ignore because we may have a different view of how we look at the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	Yes, but I also find it too easy to establish a relationship here with bottlenecks that we currently experience in the ggz, especially if you compare this to 30 years ago. As you can see, the situation surrounding psychiatric patients has always been precarious, but no exception has been made for this in this Chamber because apparently the majority of the Chamber believes that it should be possible. Is that gonna make it easy? No. Has that been easy for the last 30 years? No. It's still extremely complex. That is why we need to improve the practice step by step. The third evaluation is an opportunity to increase and disseminate knowledge better, and to see how we can zoom in a little more on the psychiatrists who say: I want to meet this in principle, but I have a problem with this or I see a barrier there. And the evaluation is an opportunity to help those who are willing to do so; to help in making a decision and help in the dilemmas they experience. This has also been done by that very small group of doctors who are prepared to euthanasia in demented patients at an advanced stage. That's a few of them. There are a lot of patients and politicians who say: we do think that this road should remain open. Does it make it easy? No, I don't think it's ever gonna be easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	Thank you. This puts the Minister at the end of her first term. I am looking around to see if there is a need for a second term on the side of the Chamber. That's the case. I call Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, although I have the impression that she feels that the figures and the increase are not so bad, while the evaluation clearly draws attention to them. I would like a response from the Minister, whom I have already asked in the first term, to the first recommendation in the evaluation to have research conducted into the underlying causes of the increasing number of euthanasia cases. I think that research is particularly important, because we will talk about it much more extensively at a later stage. That's good. By the way, I am convinced that all due care is needed on this subject and that everyone's intentions are basically good. I do think that the first recommendation is very important. If we talk about it extensively in the future, we have an underlying piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That is not the case, so I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. I find it complex in that sense that euthanasia has been declared controversial by the Chamber and that I am a missionary and a lot of reports that I get sent to the Chamber without reaction. Of course I can say: it has been declared controversial and I am outgoing, but I am going to continue to govern, make new policies and make decisions. I would, because I think you should look very closely at the recommendations. I do not think that we are ready at all and that we can sit back satisfied on the third evaluation. I can tell you that it's good to do research. I did not, however, do so because I, as a outgoing minister, have been held to have no judgment on items coming in now, because I am making new policy on them. It's gonna be complicated when I say I'm gonna make the first recommendation and not the second and third. That is why I do not go into the two and three recommendations either, not because I think it is unwise. I think it's very sensible for a far-reaching subject like euthanasia. It's better to do too much research than not to do enough research. It is extremely important to support the people who face these difficult dilemmas. Not so long ago I experienced myself with a general practitioner about a whole process of euthanasia. It wasn't about a psychiatric patient, but it was so hard for a paramedic to have to do that. If you can support them, you should. I am therefore very much in favour of this. I just didn't do that because I'm a missionary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	That raises another question from Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	If you have research conducted into the underlying cause, you do not yet make a policy. Then you will assist the Chamber in its judgment. We can also agree that you will have that investigation carried out and that the next cabinet will then make a policy on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	I can, but I have to deal with these kinds of decisions a lot. Then I'm not doing any research. When I do research, I still decide where the research funds are going. I'm fine with it all, but this Chamber has declared about 80% of the concern controversial. The last time I was outgoing, I just said it to a number of MPs. Now 80% is off. That's not my choice. You cannot expect me to shop a little selectively, because then I will be back here tomorrow and you will say: Minister, you are just going to do your own hobbies. I really like that, by the way. I'd love to in the last few months. It's obvious where the reasoning comes from, isn't it? There are a lot of things in the healthcare that we need to do research on, and I'm not making a decision about now either. I do not do that because I do not want to do so; I do not do so because this Chamber rightly says: Minister, you are in your last weeks; do not burden us with things that you think are so important; wait a minute. I know my place; that's actually what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	I would like to thank the Minister for her presence and her contribution to this debate. The same goes, of course, for the Members of Parliament and the people who have followed this debate, here in the Chamber or elsewhere.
