ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. This morning, I drove into Q-Park's parking lot. Without having to show my subscription, the barrier opened. That's a win, I think. It was fuller than usual. Several people will have experienced this morning that Q-Park was open. I thought for once, let me start lightly, because that's not how you know me. But I can put that lightness behind me right now, because we have a serious problem here at the head. Last Friday we were shocked by an unprecedented attack of hostage management software, which infected numerous computers and organizations in more than 150 countries. And it was disruptive, especially in Britain, where the hospitals were the victims. But other countries and companies have also been affected. Now the damage in the Netherlands seems to be not so bad. That's good news, but it doesn't take away the worries. It may well be that we were simply not targeted. So the question is first of all: is the Netherlands sufficiently secure? And are we sufficiently sharp or are we still running serious risks? If we can believe Mrs Zorko, a kind of director of security in the Netherlands, then it's all in order. She's even being a little light-hearted. 'Cause if a company didn't already have its software in order, it did, she says. But according to the report we received today, we need to get to work seriously. There are plenty of plans, but the resources are lacking. That's just how I'm going to summarize the report. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. There is also a lack of guidance, according to the report. Zorko says: that's right; we're moving in the right direction. I'm curious to hear the Secretary of State's response to this. The exchange of information between the public and the private sector is also inadequate, and there is insufficient expertise. In short, there are major threats and great concerns. What does the Secretary of State have to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly points out that the damage is greater in other countries. She is also right to ask the question: is that because we were lucky or because we are so much better? If the damage had occurred in countries where cybersecurity was at a low level, you could still say that we have better security. But among the countries that have been severely hit, there are also fellow leaders of the Netherlands in the field of cybersecurity. So I do think it has something to do with coincidence. It depends on who is first targeted and which systems are so assembled that it can crawl from one worm to another. In this situation, a vulnerability has been used or abused in systems that have been known for a long time, for which our NCSC had already been warned in March and April and for which a patch was already available. If Mrs Van Toorenburg asks whether the Netherlands is sufficiently secure, I would almost say: apparently not. After all, there was a vulnerability that we knew and that we could also repair, but not everyone who is responsible for cyber security in his or her organization has updated it. If that update has been turned off or that SMB protocol has been turned off, you won't get in. That awareness has not progressed far enough. We're still at risk in that. These are networks, so the weakest link can be an entrance to crucial systems. This proves that the sharpness needs to get even better. It's never finished. You can't say: I've run updates now and I can now go forward another year. You gotta keep an eye out. I think the sweep we've had done is accurate. You can look at it in all kinds of ways, but the screening shows that there is still a lot to do, also for the Netherlands. We can also be proud of other countries, but the problem is growing faster than we can keep up. The report also indicates that we are doing very well in the Netherlands with the resources we do have. I would almost say that if you invest in it, as we did in the previous budget, you know that the money will be well spent and that they can handle it well. I think I am out of speaking time for the first reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	We'll give the Secretary of State plenty of time for his second reaction. I would like to highlight a number of points. For example, look at the hospitals. It appears that we still have a very serious blow to make. In England, the hospitals have been severely affected. We have already received an alarming report on this at the beginning of this year. The VWS Minister has said that we must do all we can for the next four years. Seriously, chairman, the minister said "the next four years." I don't think we can afford that. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State. I would also like to know what the state of play is with regard to the computer emergency response team for the care, which would be working on this. We know that 75% of the municipalities have had to deal with data leaks. They would have put some things in order. It's become us that this hasn't happened yet. In fact, I was told this morning that there are officials who operate locks and bridges at a distance with a digital infrastructure that is nothing more than wood rope. I think these are now the most important points to address: municipalities, civil servants and hospitals. I'd like to bring in one more thing. The Secretary of State is right to say that the possibilities for improving it are being considered. But I understand that we don't even have a focus on what our vital infrastructure really is. I understand that sometimes hospitals do and sometimes do not belong to them: academic hospitals do and other hospitals do not. We should also know where our weaknesses lie and what we will do about them if there is a major crisis that hits the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	You would prefer to say: we appoint one person in the Netherlands to ensure that everything is safe. But that's not how it works. In that sense, I understand Mrs Zorko's comment on poldering. In the end, everyone has to have their own affairs in order. If an organisation is crucial to our society, we as a government have to make higher demands on it, so that it does so itself. When it comes to hospitals and vital infrastructure, it is precisely now crucial that we provide that clarity in the implementation of the Network and Information Security Directive. That's what we're doing. The implementation of the directive will soon be subject to consultation. In other areas, such as data processing and cybersecurity reporting, we have also started to work ahead of European legislation. This Chamber has already dealt with it; it is now in the Senate. We'd like to get on with it. We steer on the responsibilities that everyone has, but in the end everyone has to have their own business in order. There's really a lot to do. Let last weekend be a wake-up call for everyone to take their own responsibility in this. If you don't, someone else could suffer from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	Let's talk about the hospitals. For now, they still have four years to get it together. I don't think that's possible. I would like a concrete response to that, if it is not here, then through the Minister. Those data leaks in the municipalities are still there. Four years ago, there was talk of possible legislation to make this more binding. When is the time to do that? In short, I understand that things are happening, but I have not yet fully understood what we are actually going to do if there is a major crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	All these measures, which Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly asks for, are mainly aimed at preventing such a crisis, in order to reduce those vulnerabilities. If there is such a crisis, I see that in the Netherlands all the bulkheads disappear and that everyone is looking very hard for a solution, public and private together. I will ask my colleague from VWS if she can inform you of the state of play. I understand that she also sees this as an opportunity to reiterate the importance of information security in her sector and to call for urgent action. It is a good thing that we are getting data leaks from municipalities with this reporting obligation. In this way we can see how big the problem is and we can work on it in a targeted way. They're not all high-tech, they're sometimes misdirected files. If you find out you've had a leak, you'll have to fix it and then force it into superb stairs to close the holes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	It is, of course, salient that a party such as the CDA, which was keenly in favour of opening up vulnerabilities in the Internet to the use of intelligence services, is now asking questions about this global cyber attack, without even saying a word about it. I would like to ask a question about that. We can talk about security and invest................................................................................................................................................................................ The NSA lost hacking tools to criminals. This attack has shown that it is very dangerous. D66 has repeatedly pointed this out in legislation on this subject in recent months. I am very curious to see whether the cabinet will repent and see that this entails serious risks. The CTIVD has recommended a clear policy for the use of vulnerabilities and not always forgetting that this is a real risk. Will the cabinet follow that advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u8	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I see that Mrs Van Toorenburg wishes to respond briefly to Mr Verhoeven's comment on the CDA. So it doesn't count as a question, and Mrs Van Toorenburg shouldn't ask a question either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would just like to say that it is a bit sad that Mr Verhoeven is doing this. I think he feels terribly overwhelmed that he hasn't been able to ask the question before. I think that's why he's acting like this. Let it be a compliment that we have dealt with these laws and that they are in the First Chamber. Let the First Chamber handle them quickly!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr Verhoeven cuts a few turns in his question. The cabinet has not laid down a law here without regard for this risk. The law assumes reporting vulnerabilities and remedying them as soon as possible. There are processes and procedures in place to delay reporting of a vulnerability in exceptional cases in connection with an investigation. This case shows why that balance in the bill is so good. First of all, you want to stop it from happening again. Second, you want to close the hole as fast as you can. Third, you want to catch whoever's behind it. In order to do the latter, you need certain powers. What is also clear is that a vulnerability like this, which was already known and reported and for which there was a repair, is not about something that has recently been held still... had never passed the test of non-reporting of the bill. This vulnerability is so deep and widespread in important systems that the prosecution would not even have requested in this case to keep it open in the search interest; we have checked. This one would have been reported anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Secretary of State seems to forget that this attack could not have taken place if the government, in this case the US government, the NSA, had simply done its job, namely to protect citizens, businesses and governments. She didn't. It deliberately kept an existing leak in software open so that it could be gratefully abused and used. The Secretary of State then says that people should do their updates neatly, and he is right about that, but that doesn't help if the government itself deliberately exploits and uses backdoors that exist in software at the same time. My question is therefore whether the Secretary of State is prepared to amend the hacking law currently in force in the First Chamber, so that the government itself will not be jointly responsible for this type of attack, even more so, ultimately makes the Internet much more unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, I'm not gonna change that law, because there are arrangements in there to weigh up at a time what interest prevails. In this case, the vulnerability under that law would certainly not have been used secretly and not kept open. The NSA has indeed never reported the vulnerability in this case. After that, she did come to light and that's why there were repairs for it. Even if a vulnerability is common knowledge and there is also a repair for it, you can see that you can still abuse that vulnerability. It is therefore not the case that all systems have been updated as soon as a vulnerability has been reported. I think our bill has a good balance. The main rule is: a vulnerability to be discovered, under strict conditions and with the exceptions that we discussed at the time in the legal process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-16-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you.
