ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u1	In this debate, two Members will make their maiden speech, Mr Raemakers and Mr Peters. I welcome the Secretary of State for VWS and I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Kooiman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u2	Mr. Chairman. How many more suicide attempts does my daughter Emma have to make to get help? That was Emma's mother's distress call on Facebook. That's how desperate they were to get help so that Emma could be helped. I was allowed to speak with Emma and her parents myself. Emma was very clear to me. She said, "I'm really not, Nine, the only one running into this. Not only must something change for me, but for all the young people who are on a waiting list. Politics needs to be shaken up, because if you're in need, you just need to be helped right away. The difference between a broken leg and psychic distress should not matter, but unfortunately that difference is now there." Thus the words of Emma. My question to this Secretary of State: what does he have to say to these words from Emma? For Emma there may be a solution now, but there are many other children in a similar situation. What's happening to them? Do they receive the necessary help? I've made a bundle with all the concerns that not only I but Emma's parents have received. I have also brought together the cases that children's psychiatrists have written down. I would like to hand this collection to the Secretary of State with the request not only to find a solution for Emma but for all the other children who are in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u3	I assume there is no objection to this document being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u4	The new Youth Act was intended to ensure that children were helped earlier, but it became a major austerity operation, abolishing the right to care and allowing the municipalities to sit on the counsellor's seat, with the result that too little specialist care was bought in. After all, with the huge cuts they had on their plate, municipalities could not buy that expensive care enough. Necessary beds were broken down. It's not so crazy that psychiatrists haven't sounded the alarm clock lately. Waiting lists are even available for crisis shots. There is a murderous bureaucracy and officials interfere with the content of care. Unfortunately, more and more aid workers leave the profession, with a bleeding heart. If it is up to the SP, there must be an emergency plan, consisting of creating sufficient treatment sites. Because Emma rightly says: when a child is in severe psychological distress, there must be immediate care. Half a billion cuts in youth care was a dramatic plan. Investing in treatment places is necessary to provide parents and young people with the care they need. I'd like a response from this Secretary of State. This also means that there must be a national inventory of what assistance is available in the Netherlands and where there are waiting list problems. Crazy enough: when I talked to aid workers, I noticed that hardly anyone really knows how many treatment places there are. I see the Secretary of State nodding; he's probably also done his research. Those aid workers also said that no one knows how long the waiting lists are. Surely that has to be clear if you want to be able to refer effectively in order to achieve good care for children? In the long term, it is necessary that the most expert assistance should now come first in the youth care sector. The sad thing is that Emma's parents spent three and a half years trying to find the right help. Many parents who write to me say: I am sent from the locker to the wall and from the aid worker to the aid worker, but in the meantime I do not have the right help. The examples in the bundle show the same thing. So invest in expert help in the district teams, so that they also have knowledge of the serious psychological and psychiatric problems. This must be done at least, for all Emmas in the Netherlands. So much for my contribution. I would, of course, like to wish my colleagues Raemakers and Peters every success in their beautiful maiden speech, because it is a very important subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u5	Mr. Chairman. At least 20 children with serious problems have to wait so long for treatment that there is an acute danger, according to an inventory today. The actual number is probably much higher, reports the Dutch Association for Psychiatry. Emma's parents placed a distress call on Facebook. It was picked up by RTL Late Night. Suddenly, the Secretary of State took the signals, as he says, "very seriously." With pressure from the Ministry, he now appears to have found a possible appropriate treatment site for Emma. Can the Secretary of State explain whether or not appropriate care for Emma has been found? If it is really found, the Party for Animals warmly welcomes it. But what antics are other parents of suicidal teenagers supposed to pull? So the parents of those 20, or 47 kids or 100, because no one knows how many they really are. How loud must there be shouting for help for their children before the Secretary of State finds another place like a deus ex machina? After all, it is obviously possible. How does the Secretary of State intend to find a structural solution to the excessively long waiting list for young people with severe mental problems? How does he intend to resolve the financial deficits in youth care and ensure that children and teenagers in need of acute care are not better off in one municipality than in the other? The Secretary of State is going to address healthcare providers and municipalities on their responsibility. What exactly does that mean? Does the Secretary of State also see his own responsibility, namely to ensure that decentralised youth care, which has been hit by this decentralisation, can function optimally so that all people in the Netherlands, including suicidal teenagers, get the care they need and now? If so, can the Secretary of State explain how this situation could have arisen with financial deficits, waiting lists and abuses? Did he need a call on Facebook to recognise that youth care policy, decentralisation and the 15% budget cuts in youth care, is demolition policy? The Secretary of State claims to feel responsible for the framework conditions and to adjust them if necessary. Why didn't the Secretary of State adjust his framework conditions much earlier? After all, children's psychiatrists saw the decline of youth care coming from far away and long wanted to get rid of the yoke of the municipalities. They claimed that their professionalism has hit the core. Now the commotion appeases with incident politics while it is about the lives of children, is a bit too little, too late. First, responsibility for youth care from the province has been thrown over the fence of the municipalities. Now the Secretary of State wants to legally anchor the cooperation between municipalities. How is it that the Secretary of State only now has that ambition as a Demissionary State Secretary, while the possibility to set legal rules for this will expire on 1 January 2018? On Prince's Day there will be another jubilee story about the strongest economic growth in years. But growth at the expense of who? At the expense of who's being cut? Among other things, at the expense of our youth and the care it needs. The only market in care is the interest market: insurers vis-à-vis providers. In this case, the municipality does not appear to be able to optimally steer in an appropriate offer for children who need help. The Secretary of State says that municipalities should purchase adequate and appropriate youth aid. At the end of last year, a lawyer said procurement law in ZEMBLA that market forces in youth care are not working. There's actually no market. By spending on it you can pretend there is a market, but the process actually shows that it is not there, but that you are pushing a cut through the throat of society. Does the Secretary of State and the Animal Party consider that market forces in youth care and care should be abolished in general? Finally. The Party for Animals believes that the government should provide appropriate care for everyone in the Netherlands. No longer leave parents and their children to their fate!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u6	I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66 to make his maiden speech. You know the use: he can do it without being interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad after three months I get to give my maiden speech in this room. It seems I shouldn't be interrupted today either. Too bad, because I can't get enough of debate! When I was 10 years old, I knew for sure: I want to be in the House of Representatives. I can't stand injustice. I'd like to do something about that here. I want to be a people's representative standing among people. That is why I am happy and grateful with the many voices from Limburg, and of course from my own municipality of Leudal and from my village of Neer; you will hear it often. But I have also profiled myself as a youth candidate, and now I am even the youngest Member of Parliament. Through the social media, therefore, I want to take people and especially young people into account much more in what is happening here. Perhaps you have also read it: in my teenage years I have been seriously ill for a while. I remember one time I had to go into surgery because of suspicious places on the liver. There was a chance that the cancer had spread again. And then I heard I had to wait for a waiting list. A waiting list? I found that so frustrating! Even then I thought: we don't let young people in the Netherlands wait for care, do we? Not that the situation is similar, but I can imagine all the emotions of Emma's parents. Their 16-year-old daughter was on the waiting list for intensive psychological assistance, for which only eight places are available. It would make you unruly. You feel so powerless. Kids we can help, we have to help. The parents made a powerful call in the media, from Facebook to RTL. They asked for attention for their daughter. And rightly so, because this is a serious problem. The difference between waiting lists for physical and mental illness is unfair in that respect, especially when it comes to children. We understand that now, thanks to the Ministry, there is a solution for this girl. Very good! That must be a relief for the parents. But how many other kids are in the same boat? According to psychiatrists, it's about 20 other kids. Maybe they don't all come in the media, but how are they helped? Is it true that local authorities have not bought care or not enough? How are we gonna prevent this for next year? The Dutch Youth Institute has commissioned the Ministry to investigate the existence of waiting lists and waiting times in the youth psychiatry. One of the conclusions is that waiting lists and waiting times will unfortunately always exist, but the question is how the waiting lists can be as short as possible. According to D66, this requires an insight into the current data, so that municipalities and institutions can control shorter waiting times. I pointed out to the Secretary of State in the AO Youth Aid that waiting lists and waiting times in the youth psychiatry are now a black box. We can't do this anymore. Why don't all youth psychiatry settings publish their waiting lists and waiting times by default? This has been mandatory in adult psychiatry for a long time, so why not in youth? D66 wants more and faster steps to be taken here, because we know that strange eyes force. Nobody wants things like this to be the worst in his or her life. If these data are available, more focused work can also be done on solutions. My group really wants to see it quickly now, so that we can provide the right help to all the children and parents who need it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u8	Thank you for your maiden speech, Mr Raemakers. I congratulate you on that. I would like to suspend the sitting so that all colleagues can congratulate you on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u9	We're moving on. I give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Raemakers on his maiden speech. What a poignant story. I can only say that we are very happy that, despite the waiting list you had to experience in your youth, you are here among us. We all look forward to good substantive debates. Congratulations on your seat. I'm moving on to my contribution. It is hard for people who are not suicidal to imagine what a death wish is, let alone children who still have a life ahead of them. I feel sorry for the young people and their parents who are involved in this. In the annual report, I read that about 50 children actually commit suicide every year. The panic, despair and anger of parents who know that their child is not receiving the right treatment and therefore possibly committing suicide is extremely poignant. If that happens to you, then as a parent you hope for much more than here and there some temporary shelter and outpatient help that is not the right one. You're hoping for a treatment that works, you're hoping the dark clouds will make way for hope. Unfortunately, Emma's case isn't on its own. This morning we read in the Volkskrant that at least twenty children and young people with serious mental problems have to wait so long for a treatment that is risky for them. This is evident from an inventory of the Dutch Association for Psychiatry. More teenagers are struggling with life. The number of hospitalisations due to self-inflicted injuries is the highest among girls aged 15-19 years. These teenagers need the right specialized help immediately, but specialized youth care providers face long waiting lists and waiting lists of sometimes a year. What about what? Yeah, definitely because of the Youth Act. Of course there were waiting lists before that, but the Youth Act would solve everything. On 8 June we had another debate on youth aid. In the third annual report of the Transition Authority for Youth, we should have concluded that things are really wrong. A number of regulatory problems are likely to become structural, as they have been said. These were liquidity problems, insufficient cost cover rates and high avoidable administrative burdens at the expense of the funds intended for youth aid. It was also concluded that there is a good chance that essential functions of youth aid would be compromised. It was also found that waiting lists were not even kept and that municipalities were using unacceptable budget ceilings and withdrawal stops, because the cuts in youth aid were far too harsh. Satisfying costs money; it was not taken into account. Did the Secretary of State repent two weeks ago? No. Did he regret it? No. Did he express his doubts as to whether his transfer is the right course? No. Now it's not the voter, it's a mother who wakes up the PvdA executive. Her child needs help now. For the first time, the Secretary of State has taken action, but I also ask him to reflect on the policy pursued. He may not be able to save all teenagers with suicidal thoughts right now, but at least let him take his system responsibility. He saved the Child's Phone and Sensor by spending it nationwide. I think he should do the same here. I ask him to think about it and to send a letter to the Chamber before the summer recess whether it would be better to start buying national top-regional specialized youth aid so that there is enough of this specialized assistance available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u11	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, too, to Mr Raemakers on behalf of our group. It seems to me very difficult to tell such a personal story in such a debate, but he has done so with a verve. Of course, I should like to congratulate Mr Peters on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. I too am very shocked by the message on Facebook from Emma's parents. It's unbelievable that they've had to wait years for a place in the treatment clinic. Of course, the mental problems that make a treatment site necessary cannot be solved by politics. But making sure that people with serious problems can be helped as a matter of urgency is the least we can do here. For Emma and her parents, and for everyone else who yells for help. It seems happy to be solved for Emma now, that's how we read the news yesterday. At the same time, it made me a little angry. Because it's not the first time that parents have been helped until they've heard a cry for help from the media. Is this how we want to deal with people who need help so badly? Or is this a sign that all parents have to cry out through the media to get the help that their children deserve? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is certainly not the solution and the problems must now be resolved permanently. I hope the Secretary of State agrees with us. Emma's mother makes the right comparison between knee surgery in the Facebook report for which the waiting period is up to six weeks. In a major accident on the highway, we don't tell anyone that the ambulance will come later, because there's a long waiting list. In the case of psychiatric problems, that's what happens. Probably because the injury to these people is often not visible, while their suffering is just as great. Although this example is very serious, and therefore I also admire the courage of Emma's parents, it is unfortunately no exception. Previously, the alarm clock was sounded by the Children's Ombudsman, children's psychiatrists and the Transition Authority Youth. Hopefully the Secretary of State will not only take these signals very seriously, but will take concrete action quickly. Does the Secretary of State share the opinion of GroenLinks that young people who need emergency assistance should never be on hold? What is the Secretary of State going to do to prevent situations like this? Does he take responsibility for ensuring adequate supply of specialized care? Is the Secretary of State gonna start this right away? The cuts introduced by the Youth Act have a number of painful consequences. The reality is also that an institution such as Parnassia, if she has beds left over, has to pay for the costs herself. In this context, it is understandable that specialised institutions cannot achieve too wide a range. However, I hope that the Secretary of State shares the observation that offering specialised and good help to young people should not depend on erratic and financial incentives. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the Secretary of State is urged to use his perseverance power. By this I mean to force a solution to ensure that there is sufficient specialist assistance. Of course, we are aware that local authorities have been given this responsibility through decentralisation. They should also have a contact point for parents. But has that been realized in every municipality? Do we have enough pictures of how many kids need help, but are on a waiting list? We also understood that there would be a legislative amendment aimed at promoting cooperation in the procurement of youth care by municipalities. Can the Secretary of State indicate when this amendment will be submitted? The annual report on suicide prevention shows that the number of people committing suicide has increased considerably in recent years. The ministry of VWS has launched a beautiful campaign about recognizing and seeking help with depression. My compliments on that. I also admire the volunteers and the people working at platform 113, the platform that allows people who consider suicide to contact. Finally, we wonder whether the Secretary of State sees any more opportunities to get a look at vulnerable people in good time, so that good help can be provided. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there must always be sufficient assistance in the event of an emergency, but, of course, it is better not to allow it to come this far and to focus on prevention. But that can only happen if we maintain sufficient specialist care, so that parents of children such as Emma no longer need Facebook, but can simply go to a healthcare institution in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u12	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second maiden speech in this debate, that of Mr Peters of the CDA. I am happy to give him the floor and wish him every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've had to wait for it, but it's an honor to have my maiden speech on this important subject. Mr. Chairman. As a family man, as a teacher and as a leader in education, but also in numerous functions within the union life and the church, I have always experienced that together is more than the sum of individuals, and that people who have something to do with each other can move mountains. We seem to have forgotten it sometimes, but a man is only a human being by other people. You don't do being human by yourself. Not for nothing one greets in large parts of southern Africa with the greeting "sawubona!', What "I see you!" means, and answers one with "sikhona!', or "I'm here!" Only when a man knows himself and is part of a whole that is greater than himself does he fully come to his right, and vice versa: a man who does not know himself has a great chance of getting sick of it. In the Netherlands, as far as I am concerned, we ignore that ancient wisdom and increasingly organise a society of individuals, of individual rights and rules, and of deadly legality. In our obsession with makeability and individual happiness, we ignore what was and should still be about: man as part of a community. For me, it's the reason to go into politics. As a new alderman in the Netherlands, I must disappoint Mr. Raemakers, the most beautiful municipality in the Netherlands, Oss, it surprised me that the municipality provided transport facilities to prevent loneliness, but never asked if there was anyone to drive to. There is a provision in our country for every problem. Its legality is precisely defined. We have rigged systems to tackle any conceivable problem of poverty and debt to old age and disease, but we note with caution that we are spending billions and billions, that much of that money hardly contributes to real solutions and that a human being must have completed a university study in order to see through the trees somewhat the forest. We say that we want it different, but not man, but the rule is central, not the real problem, but the solution we offer. You can and you have to do it differently. I want to contribute to this in the years to come. Then I come to the sad reality of what we have achieved, with all our good intentions: a child with very serious psychiatric problems who does not receive the right help. Before I go into substance, I have two questions for the Secretary of State. What about the child and her family? Is she really getting the help she needs? As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt that every child must be helped without a condition and without maren, and that, unfortunately, the reason for this debate is not an incident. It symbolizes a bigger problem, and that problem needs to be solved. I have some questions for the Secretary of State. Is it true that there are dozens, if not hundreds, of children with very complicated psychiatric problems on waiting lists for a very long time? Are these waiting lists, in his view, also structural in nature or is it just a temporary problem? Is it true that municipalities are willing to pay for their young inhabitants and that they are simply obliged to pay even if they do not want to? If that's true, is money the first problem? Emma's healthcare provider indicates in the media that capacity problems are the cause of long waiting lists. Does the Secretary of State share that conclusion? Then comes my wonder. If more people need care, there are waiting lists and municipalities want to pay, why not just expand capacity? Can the Secretary of State explain that to me? Does the way in which third-line psychiatric care is financed perhaps create unforeseen business risks that prevent capacity building from being realised? If so, could the Secretary of State tell us what risks they are and what he is going to do to eliminate those risks? Whatever municipalities can arrange, municipalities also have to arrange: care close to people. But very specialist care cannot be provided locally. These healthcare providers have to deal with very many different parties. What does that do with their operations? Is there some part of the problem there? And if so, is there a part of the solution? As far as I am concerned, the steps to be taken are clear. First, the urgent problem must be solved. Apparently that's true for Emma, but also for the other people who are now on the waiting list. How does the Secretary of State propose to do that? Then the important problem has to be understood. How did those waiting lists come? In the case of a product which is not intended for human What steps does the Secretary of State propose? The CDA's vision is clear: we rely on people and communities, not long-term solutions devised in The Hague. Children with severe psychiatric problems should get the right help, and quickly, because they just can't wait. For most people there is no political left, right, progressive or conservative. But there are very concrete and urgent problems. Together, we can solve it. I will do everything in my power to do so, so that people in the country will feel familiar when they say "here I am" and we can say "I see you" heartily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u14	Mr Peters, congratulations on your lovely maiden speech. It is nice that for you too the work really started and the head is off by having spoken here for the first time. I shall suspend the sitting so that colleagues can also congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u15	I give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u16	Mr. Chairman. There have been so many alarms about youth care and youth ggz. So many letters, messages and other signals, but everything goes together in Claudia's public cry for help about her daughter, who, despite several suicide attempts, had to be on the waiting list for a long time. There was no place for her. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has now taken action and this case has been resolved for the time being. But what about all the other kids on the waiting list? In his letter, the State Secretary states that administrative questions about finances and waiting lists in acute cases should never be a reason not to deal with them and that he expects municipalities and healthcare providers to organise appropriate care. So much for the theory, now the practice. The centre of expertise for children's and youth psychiatry sent a letter of fire that leaves nothing to be desired for clarity. It happens daily in many places in the Netherlands that children cannot get appropriate help. There is a lack of top-regional and rural direction and care for these children in many regions is in trouble. There are longer waiting lists and waiting times. I have here an overview of the waiting lists at the Bascule, but we have also heard about Parnassia. The Bascule is a clinic of the AMC. For children with borderline up to 18 years there is a waiting list of six months. For other conditions there is also a month-long waiting list. I would like to distinguish between average, regular ggz for young people, and complex care involving multiple mental illness and often requiring acute care. In this case, it is precisely this complex concern that is at stake. For the record, we are relying on the good will of municipalities to organise this care as well as possible. But we've seen before that just doesn't go well. Especially this complex form of care, youth-ggz, is literally vital. We are also talking about very expensive facilities. Suppose an average small municipality has three to four young people in need within its municipal boundaries. Then the budget from the municipal budget is more than gone. You can't even do that to those smaller municipalities. That is why 50PLUS believes that especially this complex ggz, but actually the whole youth ggz, should be under the direction of the Empire, with its resources and under good conditions. Now these things are too different per municipality, and that is not acceptable, certainly not with this concern. The announced General Measure of Governance is a start, but it is not going to solve all the problems. We would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. We also ask him to take further action, to take control. As long as this care is still in the municipality, the sails should be placed there in the first place. Get in touch with municipalities, insurers and providers to make sure that, to start with, there is sufficient supply so that those waiting lists can disappear. Because there aren't enough places. It is true that it is very expensive amenities, so it is often difficult for providers to leave empty rooms and have them on offer. For municipalities it is also very difficult to buy in in advance. Municipalities usually buy in for the following year on the basis of previous situations, but these are often not applicable. Ensure that municipalities maintain the same working methods, so that healthcare providers no longer drown in the administration and do not have to spend too much money on overhead. Also ensure a level playing field, ensuring that as many resources as possible are returned to care, and that care can be adapted to the needs of the child instead of being dependent on the system. 50PLUS asks for the guarantee of the Secretary of State. These guys and girls need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate Mr Peters and Mr Raemakers on their maiden speech. I remember very well, long, long ago I was standing here. That was, I think, a month and a half ago. I look forward to the fruitful collaboration or collaboration. the strong debates with these colleagues every now and then. As a parent, you want what's best for your child. For many parents, the most important thing in their lives is that their children are doing well. If their child is less well off for a while or if there are various problems throughout the family, parents should be able to trust that the child is given appropriate and good care, especially when it is suffering from mental problems and has suicidal tendencies. These children are entitled to proper and appropriate care. Municipalities must ensure appropriate youth support, focusing on the needs and possibilities of the child and the family. In many municipalities it goes well and help is brought close to the child and the family. However, we have received several signals in recent weeks that there would be waiting lists in the youth ggz, especially in children with suicidal tendencies due to complex mental problems. Therefore, children would not be helped in time. It cannot be the case that, in the event of serious acute problems, providers refuse care on the basis of waiting lists. Care must be provided, however it may be. Example is this morning's article in the Volkskrant. The Dutch Association for Psychiatry reports that twenty children with severe mental problems and suicidal tendencies are not helped in the Netherlands. Here, psychiatrists must act immediately and offer first aid to these children. Then let them talk to the municipality where the child lives. It is shameful that this has not yet happened and that providers leave these children in the cold. But municipalities also have a responsibility here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u18	In the meantime, the children's and youth psychiatrists have delivered 31 cases. They're in the bundle I just handed over. I do not understand why Mr El Yassini is now pointing out that psychiatrists should talk to local authorities, and they should take care of them. Does he remember that it was the VVD that saved 0.5 billion on this care, which meant that municipalities had to cut down on this care and so there are no treatment spots anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u19	One thing is absolutely paramount to the VVD: if a child is suffering from problems or suicidal tendencies, then that child and his or her parents must be able to trust that they will be given proper care. Municipalities have a duty of care. I'm confident that municipalities will take up this duty of care. If a municipality does not take that responsibility, I would like to join Mrs Kooiman in asking the Secretary of State to come up with real solutions so that the municipality does provide the care to which the child is entitled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u20	I see that Mr El Yassini has prepared himself well for this interruption, but that is not yet an answer to my question. The VVD has cut down 0.5 billion on the municipalities. It's suddenly bam! They ended up in those municipalities. The municipalities say: we actually want to buy that care, but they're expensive places and we're out of pot. What is the VVD going to do for the communities that are calling it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u21	I think I have given an answer: municipalities have a duty of care. They have to make sure that children are helped when they get into trouble. If there are problems there, I am, I repeat, prepared to ask the Secretary of State, together with Mrs Kooiman, to really come up with solutions so that the child gets the care to which it is entitled. However, it is up to the municipalities to get to work and give the child the care it deserves and should get.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u22	No, Mrs. Kooiman, you've already had two interruptions. Two is common. We can't do it in threes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u23	I told you, municipalities also have their responsibilities. Municipalities must buy their care properly, possibly also regionally. They also need to work with providers. Furthermore, providers and municipalities at regional level should ensure more up-to-date waiting times and waiting lists. The municipality must intercede if a child cannot go anywhere. If it can't get close to home, then the municipality must find another institution. In many municipalities things are going well, but where things are not going well or where the municipality does not take up its duty of care, parents can also contact their city council. It has a democratic mandate. The city council members control the municipal board and can also intervene. In addition, local contact points are created with perseverance. These can help parents who are in danger of walking. I would like to know from the Secretary of State when there are contact points with perseverance in all municipalities at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u24	I hear Mr El Yassini say that, if there is no place within the municipality, the municipality should look further. But what if there's no place in the other facility? The number of places is particularly limited. What's the city supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u25	The municipality has a duty of care. I think she should make sure that the child gets the help and care it needs. The municipality must therefore pull everything out of the closet to ensure that the child can be placed properly at some point. It's the VVD's priority. The municipality must assume its responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u26	That is not an answer to my question as to what the municipality should do with the duty of care if that place is simply not available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u27	Municipalities can consult with each other at the upper regional level to see where a child can be placed. But left or right: the child needs help. The municipality in question must therefore get to work. An example is the municipality of Utrecht, which is working on a website for this purpose. Or take Groningen, which has addressed the 3D model to make sure that children really get the help they need. We think that is very important. So there are really municipalities that pick it up and get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u28	I hear Mr El Yassini say: then municipalities have to settle it, then it has to be bought in properly. But, as the lawyer also says, there is no market. So you're creating some kind of fictional market with the buying and contracting. According to the Party for Animals, it's bizarre that you first throw the youth care of the province over the fence of the municipalities. I can tell you that they were also in the municipality of Utrecht with their hands in their hair when that happened. Doesn't the VVD see any responsibility for the government in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u29	I don't think it's about the system. It's about the child. The most important thing is that the municipality gets to work when the child is in real trouble. Mrs Arissen mentioned the municipality of Utrecht as an example. That municipality has indeed taken everything well and provided a specific e-mail address that professionals are behind. When parents get stuck there, they actually get helped from the municipality. That's our priority. Municipalities really need to get to work and get to work. We see a lot of examples in the country where that goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u30	But the Party for Animals also sees a lot of municipalities in which things are not going well. Indeed, the child is the victim of this. It seems to be of interest to the child in which municipality it lives. Apparently it is better to live in the municipality of Utrecht than in another municipality, for example the municipality of The Hague. You cannot throw it over the fence to the municipality and say that the municipality must take up this duty of care and responsibility if you have for years broken down care by market forces and then cut back 15% on youth care. Then you can't say "municipality," whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u31	I didn't hear a question. That was a good statement from Mrs. Arissen, but I'm going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u32	I think the question was how you feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u33	I have already told this to Mrs Arissen in my first reply. It's about the child. This also means that municipalities have to get to work, because they can offer an integral solution. Municipalities can do this not only from youth aid and youth care, but also from the integrality, because they are closest to the child. That's important to us. The parents and the children need the care and the municipality can do it best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u34	I understand Mr El Yassini's plea very well, because we have, of course, decentralised the system, which means that we have made municipalities primarily responsible. At the same time, Mr El Yassini mentioned the example of the municipality of Utrecht. That's a big city. We know that in smaller municipalities it is often very difficult to maintain specialised assistance. Does Mr El Yassini not agree that there is also what should be expected of the national government in the places where it is difficult to maintain specialized aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u35	Mrs Westerveld talks about large municipalities, but I also see very good examples in Hillegom, Lisse and Teylingen, which work. It has nothing to do with the size of the municipality or with the system. The point is that municipalities go to prison to give the child and the family the care they need. I think the duty of care lies with the municipalities. It goes well in many cases. There are many examples of this. And where things go wrong, I would like to work with Mrs Westerveld and other colleagues to ask the Secretary of State to really come up with solutions so that municipalities take that responsibility. That's what I stand for. In the end, the child must have the care he is entitled to. Mr. Chairman. Other options for parents, places where they can go if they run into problems with the municipalities, are the Meldingpunt Righte Loket, the Youth Care Inspectorate and the Dutch Healthcare Authority. I will come back to that later. I think it is important for parents to find these counters easily. That's what I'm asking the Secretary of State. And how is the accessibility for parents looking for a solution for their suicidal child? The Dutch Healthcare Authority ensures that providers in the ggz place information on their website about the waiting times. However, we are getting signals from colleagues who have also said a few times in their contributions that the waiting times do not correspond to the real waiting times experienced by parents. How is this possible? Is the information that providers publish on the website not correct? If so, will the Dutch Healthcare Authority intervene so that the information is updated on the website and institutions provide appropriate care or parents and their children refer to an institution where they can go? I am curious to hear the answers of the Secretary of State. If a child has psychological problems and suicidal tendencies, it should immediately receive the care it needs. Municipalities have a duty. Care must be provided in any case; no more, no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u36	I waited very neatly until the lecture was over. I haven't heard from the VVD before: yes, we have a problem here and yes, there must be enough treatment places. If Mr El Yassini says so, we have a solution, because then the system manager can say so, as it happens here today, that he is going to take care of it. Does the VVD with the SP and many others who have said so today consider that there should be sufficient treatment sites? Does the VVD also say: how that is arranged, I don't care, but that's just supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u37	I think the SP has heard me say the same thing all the time since I joined the cathedral here, namely that I really think that is very important. Children with psychological problems with suicidal tendencies should be helped. In the end, we all want these children to have the care they deserve. This means that all of us, with the municipalities first, must ensure that we get the waiting times and the waiting lists much clearer. I have spoken about this in my contribution. The VVD strongly supports this. I am therefore very interested in the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u38	I have indeed heard the VVD refer a lot of the cabinet to the wall, to counters and to duties. The right to child care has simply been abolished. Municipalities can say: no, this aid is not, but we can propose an outpatient aid. Because municipalities are currently allowed to sit on the auxiliary worker's seat. You can always refer to the municipalities and say that they have to solve it, but we are discussing this here today. I want a solution here today. I'd like the VVD to say today: yes, there should be more treatment spots.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u39	I think I have been clear in my answers to Mrs Kooiman's questions. We want the children who have problems just to have care. That also means that the municipalities must get to work. If things go wrong, I have already told you a few times, and we are prepared to work together with Mrs Kooiman to ask the Secretary of State what solutions he is coming up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u40	I don't have any interruptions. I completely forgot in my speech to congratulate Mr Raemakers and Mr Peters. And I wrote it down like that. Congratulations on this!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u41	I start by complimenting my colleagues Raemakers and Peters for their beautiful maiden speeches. I could recognize the party color in it: involving the community spirit at the CDA and the online, also via Facebook, of young people at D66. Both have a southern tongue trap. As a northerner, I warmly welcome that. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber is discussing a difficult subject tonight. All the previous colleagues have spoken about this in depth. You're gonna have it so hard psychologically or psychologically, you're gonna think about killing yourself. If you're looking for help with that, there's no clarity when you get the help you need. You're only gonna be a parent of that kind and try to help him and not even know when you're gonna get that help. That can take a month or two months, while every day takes endlessly long. Either you're gonna be a doctor, psychologist, psychiatrist, or working in child care, and someone who's standing in front of you and needs help, can't offer help and can't direct it to someone who can. That's really serious. I can understand why there's so much attention to that right now. What I still don't get is how that's actually possible. That is also my first question to the Secretary of State. How is it that there's such a big difference in help? If you come to a hospital with a broken leg that has already been mentioned and also Mr Raemakers' personal example is that different from when you come up with psychiatric or mental problems, which are very serious. Sometimes they're even more serious than when you're physically ill. Why is there so much difference in help? Both problems are very serious, aren't they? And help is very necessary. How is that possible? What's the cause of that difference? The second question to the Secretary of State is: should that not be settled at the same level? It happens that you get to a hospital and there's no place left. The intensive care is sometimes full. But then there are appointments and it is arranged that you can go somewhere else. I understand that you sometimes have to wait three to four weeks for some treatments at a hospital and sometimes get help immediately, but how can it take so long in such urgent situations? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it should be the same? I'm actually counting on a yes to this question. A third question is: how is the Secretary of State going to ensure that this does not happen anymore, that it gets better? We shouldn't make easy promises here. This is not a problem that will be resolved next week, but it is a situation that has been going on for some time and which needs to be improved. This is a serious problem for the House and for the PvdA to join it, it is important to help people better, especially those young people who are in so much trouble and are now too often faced with a closed door.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u42	Then we came to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes, and the Secretary of State will reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u43	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u44	Mr. Chairman. Like many members of the Chamber and people in the country, I have looked with disbelief at the story of Emma's parents. Like many I have thought: it can't be that your desperation is so great that you have to ask through Facebook and the media for attention to the concerns you have about your daughter, because acute care cannot be properly cared for? Several members of the Chamber have pointed this out. For my part, let me add a cry of hearts. I understand that you can have discussions with each other and have to deal with money and contracts. And I know that the youth ggz had great hesitations and perhaps still has about the role of the municipalities in youth care. I also realize that the purchase of specialist youth ggz is not easy for a municipality, because it is difficult to estimate how much care you have to buy in, with which municipality you have to work together and how you can share risks. I too know that we are working hard to reduce the administrative burden, but we still have a long way to go. But let us stick to the agreement we make with each other: a vulnerable child who needs acute care must always get that care as soon as possible. One of the members, Mrs Kooiman, wrote in a newspaper that we would not send back a broken-legged child because there is no place in the hospital. Mr Nijboer pointed that out too. That's exactly how it is, because that's not what a healthcare provider does. Then they'll call a colleague or arrange a place. They provide care and it is only later that we talk about how it should be financially regulated. I am also very aware of my role in these matters. Municipalities and healthcare providers know where to find me when there are discussions about whether there is enough money. If there is to be acute care for 20 or 31 children, would the sector not be able to regulate this among themselves? I think that's crazy. I'm trying to tell you how it is, but I think it's crazy. I think that the general adage should be that if there is an acute need for care, as with that broken leg, that care is also provided and only afterwards is talked about or perhaps is nurtured about the money. That is what I expect from municipalities and from providers as parents with despair in their eyes knocking on their door. They're also consulting with the alderman. A lot of aldermen are and want to hear about this. I know that about them, in many cases personally. If that doesn't happen, it's not good. Several Members have asked about my role in this. Let me be clear: it is not the intention of decentralisation that things should be addressed via the media and that VWS should then seek a solution. That is indeed not the right way of working. If there's a sign that something went wrong somewhere, then that can't and shouldn't happen. I'm also watching and thinking, "I'm not gonna sit on my hands." No, I'm gonna go see if I can speed it up. But we have to look at what's behind this case. We have this case, but I'm sure there are other cases. I got Mrs. Kooiman's list, but maybe there are other signals. I think it is very good that I should discuss this list with the relevant municipalities and simply ask: is this known to the healthcare providers and to the aldermen and when will this be resolved? I just want to know. There, in that place, it belongs. I'll ask the aldermen if they've heard it in many cases that's not that much and how quickly it can be solved. I take the signals of the youth psychiatrists and of GGZ Nederland seriously. The core is: municipalities are at the bar for adequate youth support and providers should ensure that, in case of acute problems, a solution and a good place are sought together, even if there are waiting times. Municipalities have to arrange that purchase. I would remind everyone once again of these rather solid texts in the Youth Act on appropriate care. The budget should not be an excuse not to provide appropriate care that needs to be delivered acutely. Again, I repeat: even in my contacts with the VNG and with the aldermen, aldermen appear more than willing to pay it. Mr Peters devoted a number of commendable words to this. I'm also willing to adjust the purchase if they find out. But then, of course, those aldermen must also be placed in a position. The second point. The second step that needs to be taken is that... I believe that Mrs Kooiman said the most striking thing. She asked a number of questions, including the question of how sometimes such a long-term treatment is possible, and that treatment often takes a great deal of time. Why is it that a child is not on the waiting list for a very long time, because often these children are in some form of treatment, but is it unclear whether that treatment is meaningful or effective, and why successful solutions are being sought? We often talk about complex problems, but I am also concerned about the fact that there are very often differences of opinion as to what is the best way to deal with them, especially with these complex problems. I think it is good to explore with the sector whether there can be more clarity about what is better. Are those more beds or children longer on a bed? Is that the solution, or should we ensure that early identification of problems is very essential? I would like to point out that one of the key points of the new Youth Act is that we say: let's stop this fragmentation of care a little bit and let's make sure that we clearly see that we can take action as much as possible and as soon as we can recognize the signal. It is very important to be able to recognise at the front, so to speak, whether there is a psychic problem, yes or no. It is important that children are not under-treated or over-treated. That is all at the heart of the Youth Act, because that core is that we ensure that we can identify problems early so that we can prevent them from getting worse. We must keep that aim of the Youth Act in mind. The third point is that, let me put it this way: the coordination of specialist placements, if specialist care is needed, will be improved. This matter needs to be better coordinated. I just gave you the example of the hospital. Mr Nijboer pointed out that if you come to a hospital and you fail, then the healthcare provider or the hospital also feels compelled or obliged, especially towards the client, to take care of it. I may not be able to take care of it, but are there others who can take care of it and how are we going to discuss it with each other? You can also see that there are a lot of different places and regions where this case consultation is just going well. That's where you get together and you say sometimes: how do we deal with complicated cases, who is the best to pick that up and when can that be arranged? So this coordination of specialist placements I would like to join with the VNG and the sector. Then there are the waiting times. Last October agreements were made with municipalities and the branches of youth aid and youth care on how to deal with waiting lists. We have agreed that municipalities will ensure that pointers know which offer has been purchased regionally. I believe that, in another context, Mrs Kooiman has said: does everyone actually know that social card? As a result, it is really necessary to make it clear where there is place, where there are waiting times and whether there is transit. We agreed then that publishing waiting lists, being transparent to each other about those waiting lists and passing on problems when they are there so that they can be discussed, are essential. These are essential commitments that must be made at regional level. Several Members have asked: that is good, but is this regional cooperation going to be achieved? Will that be enough for you? I also think it is true that in many cases high-specialist youth aid should not and cannot be regulated at local level. You're gonna have to pick that up regionally or above regionally. I would also like to make a specific reference to the progress of the agreements that have been made. As the Chamber may know, the UNG has appointed an ambassador for the regions to hunt down and address regions where these agreements are not sufficiently made. I would like to ask municipalities and also providers to make sure that we have a clear view of whether these regional agreements actually come into being, because this cooperation between municipalities is very essential and cannot be non-binding. In the previous debate on youth care, I also said that I want to legally anchor the possibility of laying down more detailed rules on this issue. As you know, the Youth Act provided for that possibility for me. I have the power to lay down detailed rules for regional cooperation. On the occasion of the Participation Act, the Chamber amended that amendment so that that provision would expire on 1 January 2018. I now have a draft law in preparation which maintains that provision. It is my intention to bring the provision into force on 1 January 2018 so that the possibility in the current situation that I can lay down further rules to enforce regional cooperation remains intact. Then I come to the question of whether there is enough money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u45	I'm trying to follow the Secretary of State in his response. Do I put it together correctly when I say that we do not know how many young people are on those waiting lists and where the waiting lists are the largest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u46	I note that municipalities and healthcare providers do not agree with each other enough. That is precisely why I want cooperation between municipalities at regional level to take place where necessary in many cases, and secondly that municipalities offer total transparency to healthcare providers on questions such as the following. Are there waiting lists and, if so, what can we do about them? Is there a place with other providers for referral? This clarity really needs to be improved at local and regional level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u47	I ask a very specific follow-up question: do we now have an idea of how many young people with very serious problems are on a waiting list? Is that a few dozen or is that much more or much less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u48	From the administrative discussions I had with the VNG, the healthcare providers and the branches about whether there are very large waiting lists for acute care, those signals did not come. We now have a number of cases, from which I make it clear that these signals are there. This means that I would like to use these cases to address every municipality concerned with the question: do you really know that and what are you going to do about it? In the broad sense, I would like to see a better understanding of whether there are waiting times and waiting lists which are unacceptable to the professional in such a way that the municipality should know about them and that further agreements should be made on them. Unlike in the other care, ggz often involves very complex care, with treatments and treatment therapies varying per person over time. You often see that a treatment course takes years. There is not so much a waiting period, but children are being treated for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u49	I had a feeling the Secretary of State thought he'd finished his answer on waiting lists. I had a few very specific questions. I just don't understand why those waiting lists exist. The Secretary of State himself notes that there are apparently enough people who still need care. On the other hand, aldermen are willing to pay. If you add those two things together, doesn't the offer have to increase? There's no other way. Every company says, "Why don't I expand?" So there has to be another reason. Or there had to be what I heard the Secretary of State say in the second part. If hospital A has a broken-legged client, that hospital calls hospital B. Then that client goes there and sees hospital A how the payment follows there. Is the Secretary of State saying that the money isn't the problem, but that the cause of the waiting lists is that the psychiatric hospitals just don't call each other? Either he says the waiting lists aren't there, but they don't call each other. Or he says the waiting lists are there. In the latter case, I don't understand why they're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u50	I come now to the questions put by Mr Peters on this point. Is it a matter of money now, yes or no? I think those questions are very valid. I can go into that now too. Suppose there are waiting lists or people would have to wait too long, but the municipalities are willing to pay for them and are also open to discussion. In normal cases you would say: if there is more capacity, if there is also money available and if municipalities are willing to pay for it, the capacity can be increased. There's two things going on. The first is the question, which I mentioned earlier, whether there is any excuse for the word "sufficient coordination" in the specialist placements. Just so you know, if one can't do it, can you do it with the other, and call each other? I think we can do better than that. I think there is not enough mutual agreement on the question of what is going on with that. That really needs to happen. The second case is next. I think that a number of institutions also reason: I may be able to expand my capacity, but for how long is that going to be? And if I do that now, does that mean that the next year I'm gonna have enough resources to keep that specialist place alive? Look, it's two-and-a-half. Either we have waiting lists and we need capacity. So you can expand, and that's not the problem. Or there is doubt as to whether the existing contracts, which are concluded for one year, provide sufficient security for subsequent years. In that case, municipalities and specialist healthcare providers should, in a manner of speaking, make multi-annual agreements with each other. I have heard Mr Peters make a plea for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u51	The Secretary of State is actually saying that there are three solutions. We share one of these, namely long-term agreements with partners, so that they can also feel the certainty that they can invest for a long time. Another solution is to make the psychiatric institutions better call each other. But money isn't the problem? That's really my question. We have to pay, so there can be expansion as soon as there are long-term contracts. That's where the Secretary of State, like me maybe, sees part of the solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u52	The Youth Act provides that the budget cannot be an argument for not buying adequate care. So if there is more specialist care and the municipality is also willing to do it, you can make agreements with each other. I can imagine that there are many reasons why this is not enough. I'd like to get a better picture of that, too. You don't call each other enough? Is there not enough contact between the municipality and providers? Do you see any business risks that you might have to tackle in a different way? Do you have long-term contracts to sign? But the short answer is that money doesn't have to be the problem. That doesn't mean it's never a problem, but it doesn't have to be in these cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u53	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State is calling a number of municipalities to ask the aldermen if they know that someone in their congregation is on the waiting list. But can municipalities always do something about that? I took a look at the report titled "Wait a minute." Something is said about that. I'd like to quote a passage. "In order to get an overview of waiting times per municipality, we have checked whether it is possible, on the basis of the data on the institutions' websites in a municipality, to make an overview of the waiting times in that municipality. This was not feasible." My question is whether it is sometimes not also the institutions and the fact that half of the institutions do not publish the data. After all, municipalities do not know where there is a waiting list and how long the waiting period is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u54	That's right. That is precisely why I agreed some time ago with the municipalities, the healthcare providers and the industry that everything they do should be agreed at regional level. These can be agreements between municipalities, for example, to ensure that regional cooperation is so that you can jointly purchase care that transcends a municipality. Mrs Sazias already gave an example that one municipality may not be able to bear certain concerns. In addition, they must ensure complete mutual transparency as to whether there are waiting times or not. That way you can say "you need to call each other," or "you need to buy more care," or "we need to do something else." The up-to-date information from the provider to the municipality is very essential in order to be able to make such agreements with each other. Mr Raemakers is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u55	These institutions are, of course, active in several regions, where there are other partnerships between municipalities. So do you not get some kind of fragmentation, because each region determines in a different way how transparency is shaped in that particular region or in those particular cooperating municipalities? I don't know exactly how we should do that in law or regulation, but wouldn't it be better to just state nationally as a rule that all institutions should publish those data?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u56	The agreements to do so have indeed now been made between municipalities and suppliers. I want to know if those appointments will be kept. So I'm going to ask the VNG to inform me, sort of at the end of the year, how things stand. Have agreements been made between municipalities to buy in at regional level where it is necessary? Have agreements been made between municipalities, regions and providers to ensure that the waiting time information is transparent? I would like to know the state of play before the end of the year for the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u57	The waiting list issue isn't new in this house. I remember the debates with Mr Van Rijn's predecessor, Secretary of State, Mr Ross. At the time, she made an extra EUR 100 million available to fight the waiting lists. I also remember debates here with Bussemaker and Rouvoet about the point that the Chamber did not accept that children were taken off waiting lists when they were given replacement care. However, what I do not remember from the 1,000 pages of Chambers that ultimately covered the Youth Act is that we agreed with each other that no waiting lists would be kept at all after the introduction of the Youth Act. I'm surprised. On 8 June we also discussed this. It's high on me. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send waiting lists to the Chamber every two years so that we can keep a finger on the wrist as regards the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u58	Perhaps we find each other in the view that it is essential that this information is available at the level where care is provided, i.e. in the municipalities and in the regions. Can there be sufficient help? Is there any waiting time? What about the acute care? We need to know. Municipalities need to know that with their providers. I do not think that is enough, because I also want to know whether these agreements are being made and whether that is enough for municipalities to be able to conduct good policies. That is precisely why I would like to ask municipalities and regions about the situation in their region and whether there is sufficient clarity about care and waiting times so that municipalities can buy in properly. I think it is wise that we should talk periodically about the state of affairs that municipalities are going to produce, in the sense of: is there enough information available to be able to conduct good policies? I would like to be a little reluctant to collect this information nationally, because then we will increase the administrative burden again, but I do think it is important that the waiting list information at regional level is clear to the buyers, i.e. to the municipalities, and to the providers, so that they can say where care can be provided and not in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u59	Of course, we are all allergic to additional administrative burdens, but on the basis of the waiting list problem here in the Chamber, also historically, it is decided whether or not extra money will be provided. With this we can also keep a finger on the wrist from our system responsibility. If 42 regions already collect this information and if the Secretary of State makes evaluations, monitors or whatever, it seems to me a little trouble that we get the status of the waiting lists in those monitors or evaluations, as happened before the Youth Act was introduced. From January 1st, the funds will expire on the general cash of the municipalities, so it will be very difficult to link money to youth care. Then it becomes all the more important to know where the bottlenecks are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u60	I am very willing to inform the Chamber about the monitor we are preparing with the VNG to present the state of play in all regions. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u61	Very briefly, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u62	Yes, very briefly. Is the Secretary of State now telling us to add the waiting lists from the 42 regions to those monitors?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u63	Now Mrs. Agema is going one step further. She's asking now if we can add them all up. I don't know, because the question is what to add together. I am going to ask municipalities to look at the waiting times and the mutual arrangements for regional cooperation in their regions. Maybe that doesn't add up, but I'll send the image of that monitor to the room as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u64	It is good that there is more clarity about the waiting times. That seems essential to me. But I was wondering if a mother with a suicidal child at home following this debate would be confident that her child would be given sufficient care. I don't really hear a clear answer to that. What will the Secretary of State do to ensure that children are no longer sent from the locker to the wall? And what does he do for the other cases? I've provided a whole book of examples of other Emma's, who need this help just as much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u65	If acute care is needed, which the professionals believe should be delivered immediately because otherwise things are not going well, then there cannot be all kinds of discussions about it. Then we're not gonna discuss whether or not we should, whether there's money, the administrative side and the like. Then it's just a care that needs to be taken care of. That's a professional duty. I'd almost say look at the doctor's oath. It's just in there. Well, then you shouldn't all be fussing about the conditions under which that can happen. Acute care should be provided, as should care for a broken leg. Where this is not enough, or where there are signs that this is not enough, I will call upon the municipalities and the providers to ask how it is going, so that we can quickly see if these are indeed cases where people are wrongly denied acute care. Or is there something else going on, because there is already a treatment that has to wait and see? I don't judge what's acute and what's not. That judgment is up to the professionals. But if it has been established that acute care is needed, I do want help to be provided as soon as possible, as in all other areas of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u66	This is exactly what these parents run into. They're being sent from the locker to the wall. They're told by their congregation: sorry, we can't provide that care. Or they hear: sorry, we don't have it in our region, and I'm sorry, I don't really know where else you should go. In fact, there is a Secretary of State who says exactly the same thing: sorry, but you have to be with the municipalities for that. For example, these children are actually ping-ponged between the Chamber and the congregations, but in the end we have a big question mark here when no one knows who is responsible for this. You're a system manager, aren't you, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u67	Oh, yeah. But I can't imagine that if a child needs acute care today because otherwise it's in danger, the healthcare provider would say: I don't know, you should be with the municipality. I can't imagine that, and I hope it doesn't happen. I'm gonna check, but I really can't. The healthcare provider has to come up with something to deliver that care. Then we can fight each other about money, about administrative conditions and so on. Maybe they'll tell me to do something from the system. Of course! But in a case where acute care is needed, a healthcare provider can't say: you know, I can't actually deliver that. That would be crazy, wouldn't it? We don't want that situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u68	Can the Secretary of State imagine that such a provider would say, "I'm sorry, but we don't have a place, we're full?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u69	If you come to the hospital with a broken leg and the ER is full, then the hospital doesn't say, "I don't know, it can't?" Something's gonna be arranged. As Mr Peters said very strikingly: if the municipality is willing to pay and the healthcare provider provides the acute care, then something has to be found. After that, you can discuss with each other: does that happen more often, what agreements do we make, should we perhaps amend the contract, should we arrange other things? Of course you have to, but you'll make sure that care is delivered first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u70	An important part of this debate is about the fact that the number of places is inadequate. I'd also like to hear something else from you. I hear you saying that money is not a problem. Suppose an alderman of a small municipality calls you tomorrow: we have six children within our municipality who need top-regional, high-specialist ggz and the budget is up; what should we do? What do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u71	The fact that the budget is or is not exhausted is no reason not to provide specialist care. That's even in the law in so many words. Yeah, you're often not able to buy specialist care on your own as a municipality. For this, you need to work together in the region and sometimes also above-regional. That is exactly why I want all these municipalities to make these regional agreements. The VNG has appointed an ambassador to check whether these agreements are being made in all those regions. It is also precisely the reason why I want to maintain the provision in the law which would expire on 1 January and which allows me to lay down rules for regional cooperation. I will forward the bill to the Chamber as soon as possible. It is my intention to ensure that continuity on 1 January 2018. We've talked a lot about whether or not we have extra money. We will always talk about money, micro or macro. Regions need to look at regional cooperation together and see if there are enough places to buy in. The discussion about money is, of course, broader. We also discussed it in the youth debate. Is there enough money available? Do some municipalities have money and other municipalities lack money? Should we take a look at the realization figures? At that time I indicated to the Chamber that I am very willing to look at the investigations that have now been carried out. A quarter of the municipalities indicated that they might be short. We'll have to look into that. We have to wait and see the results. At the end of the year, we know what the results of last year are, so that we can assess whether municipalities lack structural funds. Are they running out of money on the kids and are they keeping money on something else? In the meantime, local authorities themselves have to explain themselves and not say: we have a shortage of youth care, so we have a problem. That depends on the total budget of a municipality. I am very willing to look at it, both specifically at the research carried out on municipalities that indicate that they are in deficit. I'm willing to look at the distribution model. I am also prepared to look into whether there are any other adjustments needed, but let us wait and see the results. Mrs Agema had made another comment about whether you should take care of things differently. Shouldn't you be thinking about buying in some other way? Do you have to buy regionally or above-regionally and not by municipality? In a number of areas we have a nationwide transition arrangement, whereby municipalities jointly agree to purchase or at least make certain things regional, upper-regional or through a national arrangement, with national agreements, or at least to make such contractual terms. I wasn't thinking about it. I am prepared to work with the VNG to see if such a nationwide transition arrangement for the high-specialist can be a solution. I believe that Mrs Agema asked me if I was prepared to discuss this with the UNG and think about it. I'm quite willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u72	I thank the Secretary of State for that commitment. I think the Child's Phone and Sensor have now reorganized the Empire. Can he take that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u73	The Child Phone was a rural facility, which was then purchased by the VNG. I can't do that anymore. It has been said that you can regulate all the municipalities, but isn't it more convenient to keep them nationwide? This is an arrangement between the municipalities and the regions, which could agree with each other to bring together even more or to agree together the framework conditions for the contracts. So that is absolutely essential. I really want this to remain with the municipalities, with the recognition and the question you are asking whether you should perhaps not look at national conditions and national contract terms. I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u74	I hear the Secretary of State say: we are waiting for the investigation, the results of which will be available at the end of this year. But what is the Secretary of State going to do for those twenty or more children who are not currently receiving the care they need? I hear the Secretary of State say that an acute request for help is given care, or should be. He's going to ask the congregations if he can see how they're doing. But children's psychiatrists have been ringing the bell for a year and a half because things go wrong, because the care that should be given is not given, and because care is stripped. What is the Secretary of State going to do about it right now, rather than waiting for the investigation at the end of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u75	I didn't say I was waiting for the investigation. I said: where there is a need for acute care that cannot wait, I have no judgment on that; that is what the professionals must determine together................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So if there are cases, and I have received signals from Mrs Kooiman that there are, they must be resolved at the place that is set up for that purpose, namely the municipality purchasing and the healthcare provider who has to provide that care. Do I check with the congregations what they know about it and what has been arranged? But the question is whether the conditions are right. That is why I think it is important that we make agreements at regional and above-regional level where they are needed. I call on providers to make their care services transparent, whether there are waiting lists and to make sure that the municipalities know about them. I have asked the UNG to take stock of this in all regions so that we can all see if there is any of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u76	This is yet another signal, the children's psychiatrists say. They saw the decay of youth care coming a long way. You say that the conditions are important and that you feel responsible for them. Then why didn't you adjust the framework conditions before? Why didn't you ask the congregations how they were doing earlier? Why haven't you seen those kids who aren't getting care before?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u77	One: We have made agreements with the municipalities to ensure that regional agreements are reached everywhere, including agreements with the providers to inform each other about waiting times and waiting lists, if there are any. That's an agreement that we're going to see now: is there going to be any? Two: The amendment of the law is on the way to ensuring that we can set rules with each other if regional cooperation is not sufficiently achieved. Three: I am talking to municipalities about their signal that some municipalities expect deficits and others don't. Does that mean that you have to look at the models or look at other rules to change the framework conditions? Four: I also said: shall we just wait and see the results? Some municipalities may be short and others may have something left. Some municipalities may be short on youth care but they are left with other parts. We will have to determine with each other what is happening with regard to the development of finance, but we will have to do so. These are all agreements that we have already made with each other and which I am adding to them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u78	What's crossed is the capacity problem. There's just not enough room. The Secretary of State needs to know. He went looking for a place for Emma himself. He must have experienced that this is very difficult because there is not enough room for this particular group of young people. It's not like groups are magically opening in one go. Sometimes it takes a little pressure. Is the Secretary of State going to create it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u79	That is precisely why it is essential to understand at regional level. The question is whether there is sufficient capacity for this specialist care and whether sufficient regional agreements have been made. This means that these municipalities and those regions need to know what the situation is. I may have said a little too simple, also in response to Mrs Kooiman's message: if that were 20 or 30 cases, I would be surprised if that could not be dealt with as a whole. I say that all the more so because Mr Peters' remarks are also very valid. He said: if there is acute care, municipalities are willing to pay and we agree that care should also be provided when the situation is acute, then that cannot be the problem unless there are other issues. That's about questions like: do we see business risks, do we know about each other, and do we actually call each other? Those are exactly the questions we have to ask the regions: what about you? If additional capacity were needed and municipalities were willing to pay for it, that could also be arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u80	The Secretary of State creates a lot of questions, but I only ask him for a solution, namely to arrange that additional capacity, because, yes, it is necessary. The Secretary of State needs to know, because he's been looking for him for the last few days. He's been all over the Netherlands and found out there aren't enough places. I just handed over a book with 50 cases of all people looking for a suitable place. Previously, there were availability funds in the youth ggz. Then they kept a bed open for acute cases. All that's been cut off. You can't finance empty beds anymore. What will the Secretary of State do now? I don't see the beginning of a solution yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u81	Mrs Kooiman made her own contribution to this: how is it that the sector still knows so little? Then it's about questions like, how many of these cases are there exactly? Why do treatments take so long? Sometimes they're short, sometimes they're tall. That's gotta be a lot sharper. In my speech, I tried to point out that I also want to talk to the healthcare providers and say to them: listen, the information about treatments and treatment time, about when beds are available and when and when specialist care is not and when, should really be much clearer if we want to make agreements about capacity and about the movement we want to make with each other. Step 1 is that you make sure that there are good regional agreements. Step 2 is that, if there is acute concern and if it is clear how many, municipalities that are willing to make money for it also make agreements, preferably multiannual ones. But asking the clarity around like "what's going on?', "How many cases are we talking about exactly?" and "when do we talk about treatment, beds or other kinds of interventions?', Must be really much sharper. Only on that basis can you make good appointments with each other. Mrs Kooiman is right to say that there must be much more clarity. That is what she argued for in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u82	You will continue your speech. Perhaps you could give an indication of how far you are?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u83	My contribution will only be very brief. There are still a few specific questions that haven't been touched yet. Mrs Arissen spoke about market forces in the procurement process. I don't have much with the term "market operation," especially in this type of care. In the debate on the Youth Act, we discussed procurement and what we are investigating. A: How can we simplify these procurement procedures? B: are they essential or not? I'll come back to that in accordance with the terms of the Chamber. Mr Raemakers had asked a question about the publication of waiting times. We have talked about this for a while. Those appointments were made. I'm going to take stock of what happens in the regions. Mrs Agema spoke about the frameworks of the national transition arrangement. I think I answered that. Mrs Westerveld asked when the legislative amendment on regional cooperation would be tabled. It is my ambition to submit it to the Council of State before the summer so that it could enter into force in early 2018. Mrs Westerveld also asked whether there was a distinction between urgency and planned youth aid. I assume so, but the development of the ggz interventions, to put it this way, is not yet ready to say: these five interventions are there; this is planned and this is not planned; this is urgent and this is not an emergency. That is one of the discussions we are having with each other. I do not want to have an idea of what is and what is not urgent. That's a really professional judgment. But I do note that professionals sometimes define the protocols differently per institution. More clarity on this point would help incredibly, including for municipalities, to ensure that a good procurement policy can take place. I think I have largely answered Mr Peters' questions. He asked two questions. Can I confirm that municipalities are willing to do so? And are they willing to pay for that? The answer is indeed yes. I would like to talk to municipalities and healthcare providers to find out if they see other risks as to whether you would like to increase capacity. One of them could be the uncertainty over the years. If you have a contract for a year, it's probably hard to have an extension without having any certainty about the years after that. If that's a point about availability, then we need to discuss it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u84	Those long-term contracts will indeed be a point. Another point is perhaps the fact that empty beds may not be included in the funding; Mrs Kooiman said that just now. If institutions fill the beds as quickly as possible because otherwise they run financial risks, we have a start to a solution. I still can't figure it out. If there is supply and money, the capacity grows. If that is not the case, it may be because of the lack of long-term contracts or the problem with the empty beds. If we have that above the table, we can all say: we know; solve now! Those kids can't wait. Such an institution says: I simply have no capacity; although the municipality can pay twice as much, I have no capacity. It just doesn't work for me. If there really is a long waiting list of several children, then there is no such thing and then I just want to know why. I think it's those empty beds and those long-term contracts. It may be something else, but have them call you tomorrow, because then we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u85	I agree with that one hundred percent. That is exactly why I want to conduct the discussion about these cases and the overall capacity in this way with the municipalities and the industry. Mr El Yassini asked about the contact points and the perseverance. In fact, I think it would be a good idea if I asked the VNG about the progress made in the development of these perseverance points, just to put it bluntly. I would like to say to the Chamber that I will make a more detailed assessment of this and that I will forward it to the Chamber in the next progress report. Mr El Yassini also asked whether parents could easily find the window. I think so, but I'm a little hesitant because of course that also depends a bit on the parents. I would like to point out that there are a number of access points in the Youth Act that are explicitly regulated in this way. That could be the neighborhood team, but that could also be the GP or the pediatrician. That is precisely why we have maintained broad access in the Youth Act and we have not said: everything must be done via the district team or everything must be done through the general practitioner. It's en-and-and. This means that the chances of parents getting the right information about where they can go have increased, but that does not mean that the right window could also have a good referencing function.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u86	One of the options parents have next to those counters is the city council. We have been having a debate on this for a few hours now, but the city council is not really present at all. I hear the Secretary of State says: I would like to speak to the aldermen to remind them of their responsibility. But we also have in the Netherlands, of course, the city council that controls the college. To what extent is it taken into account that municipal councils also get signals that things are not going well here and there? That is also a question for Mrs Kooiman, who has brought all the issues together. Have the municipal councils also been informed of these matters? The municipal councils are a crucial place to address the aldermen on their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u87	My reaction is twofold. Mr El Yassini is right that it would be very interesting to know whether the responsible aldermen do know when the healthcare providers or the youth psychiatrists say: we have 30 of those cases that are difficult to deal with. I'm curious about that, too. I'd be reluctant to let parents take care of all that. Parents just need good care. They should not be concerned with whether they should go to the city council to see what's going on. We shouldn't do that. But of course city councils have a role to play in this. If there is a discussion as to whether municipalities have sufficiently purchased, whether there are too long waiting lists or whether there is too little specialist care, then the debate should be held between the B and W College and the City Council. That is the heart of the debate. Mr El Yassini is quite right. However, we should not say to the parents: go to the city council. Parents just need good care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u88	I absolutely agree with that. It's about parents reaching out to us, too. I'm getting the signals as a People's Representative in the House of Representatives. I try to pass those signals on to my colleagues, the VVD groups in the municipal councils throughout the Netherlands, who fight every day to ensure that these families receive good youth support. I think it is important that we remember them when we come up with solutions. That's what I'd like to argue for. But I agree with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u89	It seems to me that it would be a good idea to look at the cases in order to see whether the municipality is aware of this and whether the alderman and the city council will then discuss it. That is the level at which the debate should take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u90	We notice that tonight we are all very difficult to get a grip on the problem: how long exactly are those waiting lists, how long is the waiting period? I find it a little easy to say: the municipal councils should check on that too. If we as the House of Representatives can't even get it clear, how can we expect municipal councils to have those dates on waiting lists and waiting times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u91	The first reason is because the municipality is responsible. The municipality is responsible for a good care purchase in general, as well as for specialist care. Whether good and sufficient has been bought in and what that means for the coming period is a responsibility of the municipality, and should be determined in consultation with the city council. However, if there is any doubt as to whether sufficient care has been purchased locally or regionally, we must be careful not to rush into the discussion in the Hague. It must be resolved in the city council, where the waiting list information must be available, where the discussion must be conducted or buyers and healthcare providers have bought too much or too little care. We cannot solve that here in The Hague; the person who has to buy can. I also have no doubt that aldermen are very willing to receive, receive and then have that discussion. If they do not do enough, they should be addressed by the city council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u92	You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u93	I have already answered the last question. I will check how these information points are invested in the municipalities. I will consult with the UNG on the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u94	I have one last question for the Secretary of State. It has still not become clear to me whether a suitable place for Emma has actually been found. If so, can the Secretary of State explain how he found that place? And is he going to find a place for the twenty or more children who need acute care right now? Will he keep the Chamber informed of the claims? They need help now, acutely. Is that what the Minister's gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u95	I'm not the one who can take care of and buy. On the basis of this case I did call with the question whether there is somewhere else to be found. That turned out to be the case, quite quickly, by the way. That could be a sign that the information is being provided over and over again. Who do you call if there is a problem, does the alderman know that, are there any other providers that can do something? He said euphemistically. I have also received other signals, and I will discuss them with the relevant municipality. That's where it has to be solved. At the same time, we have discussed a number of conditions here. I will address the alderman of the municipality where this plays and ask: is it true that there are cases in your municipality that should actually be resolved in consultation with the healthcare providers? Then I will appeal to the municipality and, if necessary, to the providers. And as for that place, about which the specific question was: there is a possibility of placement, but the answer to the question of whether it is appropriate is, of course, up to the parents. The discussions on this matter are now taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u96	Mrs Arissen, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u97	Yes, Chairman, finally. It is still not quite clear to me how parents can ring the alarm bell for a child who really needs acute care and that you call one round and there is still a place available. How is it possible that children will be on a waiting list for weeks or months, that you will call and that it will obviously be possible? And are you going to do that for those other children who are in the same situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u98	I will also ensure in the other cases that those who have to resolve it, namely the municipalities and the healthcare providers concerned, will do the same. I will appeal to them as well. The fact that it succeeded in this case may have to do with what I just said in the debate: is there enough contact between the healthcare providers concerned and the municipality if there is a problem and do they know about each other so that they can act? We called and asked: do you know and are there any other options? Turns out there's a place. I think this could be the case in many other cases. Notify each other and be transparent about the waiting lists. Is there any acute concern? Can we offer a solution to that? Is the city willing to pay? Yeah? Then those kinds of things are also soluble. And insofar as they are not soluble, there is a need for discussion as to whether more care should be bought in, whether agreements should be made in other ways or whether regional agreements should be improved. These are the framework conditions with which I, as I said, deal with the municipalities and the industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u99	In his speech, the Secretary of State referred several times to the municipalities and the duty they have in the context of the decentralisation concept. At the same time, he proposes to introduce soon a General Measure of Governance which should deal with insufficient cooperation. I am very curious about that "insufficient cooperation." That is a rather vague concept. Can the Secretary of State explain this a little more and indicate whether this is about procurement, procurement or about cooperation in the framework of waiting lists? I'm kind of looking for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u100	I believe that regional cooperation is essential to buy in specialist care together. That is just because of the point Mrs Sazias made: the risks are sometimes not to be borne by a single municipality. In addition, you need more volume agreements for specialist care in order to actually realize them. Specialist care will therefore, in my view, in many cases have to be bought in regionally or even above regionally. This means that municipalities have to work together on this issue. Those agreements have already been made, by the way. The VNG, the municipalities and the industry organisation have said to each other: this is the development of.I am now using a very ugly word.the care landscape, so how much specialist care and how much outpatient care do we need and what does that mean for the care purchase? They have actually agreed on this long-term vision, but I say now: that is good, but what is the result of it at regional level? Any appointments made? Is the information being exchanged? Do healthcare providers tell their municipalities and their region what the situation is and what their demand is, so that municipalities can adequately buy in? This information, over and over again, really needs to be improved. Healthcare providers may then need to get a little more used to the idea that the municipality is responsible and that they should have the conversations with it. And if there are problems, then they have to be solved with each other. But let us try to keep this order: if acute care is needed, the provider must ensure that this acute care can be provided and then we can talk about the arrangements. If there's any fuss about the cross-compliance, about the contracts, then you have to make agreements with each other. And if there are systemic issues, for example, about too much money or too little money, then I am sure that people will come to me and then I too will take responsibility. However, we need to ensure that healthcare providers and municipalities work together to ensure that good care is provided and that acute care is provided when needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u101	Mr Raemakers, a brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u102	Do I understand correctly that the case we are talking about today, about a very specific form of care, for which there are only eight beds, can be an example of what the Secretary of State wants? He says: now that there are only eight beds, the municipality has a duty to cooperate better with other municipalities or with other regions to still arrange a bed for this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u103	That is one of the issues raised by Mrs Kooiman: they have eight beds or are they actually more? Do you need more beds or do you need other forms of care? That really needs to be made much clearer, because it is not so that there would only be eight beds for very specific care. In complex care, it is often a search which is the best treatment method. Sometimes that's recording, but sometimes it's not. That's really up to the professionals. In my role, therefore, I would not dare say that there should be more beds because that is the best solution to this very complex psychological problem. That is very much the question. I hope the professionals have ideas about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u104	Thank you. We have arrived at the end of the first term on the part of the cabinet and are now moving on to the second term on the part of the Chamber. There is a one-and-a-half minute speaking time per group. Within that speaking time, any motions for resolutions should also be tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u105	Mr. Chairman. You will have only looked at this debate as a parent of a child in psychological distress, and have been told that you still have to go back to your congregation. That municipality probably already said to you once "sorry, but we don't really know where to knock," "sorry, there's no place" or "sorry, the place to go is full." That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the entry of the Youth Act has resulted in the abolition of the obligation to include closed youth care and the availability of youth ggz;]] [[noting that this has resulted in (reserve) beds for children in acute (psychological) distress;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there are sufficient treatment sites for children in acute psychological distress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Arissen and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-584]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u106	Again, I really don't care how it's arranged and by whom, as long as they get there. Then you should know where there is room in the Netherlands at all. I think the Secretary of State found out through his search that it's still pretty complicated, because there's pretty little visibility of these treatment sites all over the country. There's a reason he's been trampled all over the country. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas no one knows exactly how many treatment places there are for children in (acute) mental distress;]] [[noting that there is also no overview where these treatment spots can be found in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, to make a social map of the offer of youth aid in the Netherlands and to update it annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kooiman, Mr Raemakers, Mr Arissen, Mr Westerveld and Mr Peters.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-585]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u107	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. Although it was a difficult subject tonight, I thought this was a good and respectful debate. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State has made a number of promises. He's going to look more regionally at how the steering is on waiting lists. The Secretary of State has also indicated that he is willing to send more often an overview of the waiting lists to the Chamber. However, we do not think that is enough. I want to move on so that children like Emma no longer needlessly fall between ship and ship. That is why I and my colleague from the SP, Mrs Kooiman, are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are often long waiting lists for children with serious mental problems;]] [[noting that municipalities have a duty to provide appropriate assistance, but that they often do not know at this time where treatment is most readily possible and that children and families are waiting unnecessarily long for help;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that waiting list information is transparent and easy to consult so that municipalities can better fulfil their youth duty, and to this end to ensure that all institutions publish the data on waiting lists and waiting times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-586]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u108	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his commitments. It's nice that there's business with a outgoing Secretary of State. I would like to make the commitments even more clear, and I shall therefore table the following motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine, as soon as possible, whether it is not better to purchase national top-regional specialised youth aid or to make it a national provision such as the Child Phone and, if so, to achieve this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-587]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u109	My next motion is about the waiting lists. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, as of 1 January 2018, the resources for the social domain, including youth assistance, will fall to the general resources of the municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that future monitors and evaluations of the Youth Act include the current waiting lists of 42 regions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-588]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u110	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for the answers. It is good to recognise that there are problems. But we are still missing the direction of solution. That is why we are tabling a number of motions. The first motion is about national direction until things are in order locally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are too long waiting lists for young people who need acute specialist care;]] [[noting that municipalities are responsible for purchasing this highly specialised youth care;]] [[noting that there is insufficient cooperation between municipalities and therefore insufficient procurement of highly specialised youth care;]] [[Whereas it is unacceptable that young people should be on the waiting list before receiving appropriate care;]] [[calls on the government, until the new law on the Youth Act enters into force, to conduct national guidance in order to create sufficient places for young people in need of highly specialised care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-589]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u111	I am now very quick to read out the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that healthcare providers and municipalities are not sufficiently transparent about waiting lists in youth care;]] [[noting that the Secretary of State as a system responsible has the responsibility to inform the Chamber on this matter;]] [[Whereas it is very important to understand the number of young people waiting for care;]] [[calls on the government, healthcare providers and municipalities to publish this information in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the Youth Act obliges municipalities to have a point of contact for parents who have questions about their children's mental health;]] [[noting that this has not yet been achieved in every municipality;]] [[believes that parents should always be able to contact their municipalities in order to quickly find suitable care for children together with them;]] [[calls on the Government to require municipalities to establish a contact point for 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-590]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-591]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u112	Mr. Chairman. It would be nice if we could first try to solve the urgent problem. For Emma, that may have worked, but for children who are still waiting, perhaps not. After that, it would be nice if the Secretary of State could indeed work on understanding this important problem. Where did that come from? And then we can agree concrete steps. Maybe we should do something with long-term contracts. Maybe we should standardize. Maybe we should do something with the empty beds. In order to solve the urgent problem, I would like to read out my first motion. I shall make that motion on behalf of Mrs Kooiman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that it was agreed that a perseverance force would be available to each municipality as of 1 January 2017, which could force a breakthrough for children and parents who are stuck with their call for help;]] [[noting that there are signs that this is far from being regulated in all municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to take stock of those municipalities which have not organized a power of perseverance, to persuade them to organise a power of perseverance at regional level or not and to inform the Court of Auditors on this matter for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-592]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u113	My second motion concerns regional cooperation. It has been said a number of times and I hope the motion is superfluous, but I fear that it is not. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for certain specialised forms of youth care regional cooperation between municipalities is necessary and should not be voluntary;]] [[noting that, on the basis of Article 2.8, second paragraph of the Youth Act, after agreement has been reached between municipalities and the Ministry, areas may be designated by the General Measure of Governance in which municipalities are required to cooperate;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into appropriate consultations with those regions where there is not yet sufficient regional cooperation;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare an AMvB with the aim of enforcing regional cooperation in those regions in the event that the agreement-oriented consultations do not lead to sufficient regional cooperation;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of a realistic timetable with associated deadlines when regional cooperation has to be achieved before adopting the AMvB,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Kooiman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-593]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u114	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is very curious. We were hoping for an extra tight commitment on the understanding of the waiting lists and capacity. I thank the authors of the motions, Mrs Kooiman and Mr Raemakers, for asking for them. We shall therefore support these motions. Cooperation between municipalities is not going well. I've heard that a lot today. Fortunately, I hear more and more parties who just don't like the idea that the youth ggz is with the municipalities at all. Instead of making new agreements with 42 different care regions or 388 municipalities, we want to table this bold motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the procurement of high-complex and therefore expensive youth ggz places a disproportionate burden on municipal budgets;]] [[Whereas this concern must be equal throughout the country, precisely because of its complexity, urgency, costs and, above all, availability;]] [[points out that high-complex youth-ggz should be the responsibility of the Empire,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31839-594]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u115	Mr Nijboer gave up the floor. That is why we have come to the end of the second term of the House of Representatives. The Secretary of State is still waiting for a few motions, which is why I am suspending the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u116	I shall reopen the sitting and give the floor to the Secretary of State for the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u117	Mr. Chairman. I'll give you my explanation of the motions filed. In the motion in part No. 584 the government is asked to ensure that there are sufficient treatment sites for acute psychological distress. I don't think that's a good idea. Municipalities and their healthcare providers must ensure that there are sufficient treatment sites. If acute care is needed, healthcare providers should also ensure that it is delivered. They will, if necessary, have to consult with their buyer. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. I repeat, moreover, my commitment to appeal very actively to the municipalities to ensure that they ensure that they are delivered where there is discussion about these acute care spots. In the motion in part No. 585 the government is invited to make a social map of the youth aid offer in the Netherlands together with the municipalities. I would like that overview to be presented on such a scale that the information is relevant to the parents and children and that the social card per municipality is actually there. Collecting at the level of the Netherlands does not seem to me to be of added value to the people who need that care. They must be able to see where they can go in their municipality or in their region. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u118	This is essential, because Emma's parents have literally continued throughout the Netherlands. They are actually heading in a very different direction now than they had ever thought of. They also thought about The Hague at the time and that is not really around them either. Doesn't the Secretary of State agree with the SP that you need to look nationally at the aid offer? You can look at it regionally, but the problem for this particular group is that it is also not clear at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u119	I think it is essential that it is a responsibility that, for example, the healthcare providers take and feel. Surely it cannot be that the parents of a child in need of acute care should have knowledge of the national offer and then look for the care options available? If there is acute care to be provided and you cannot go where you should go according to the social map of your municipality, it is the responsibility of the healthcare provider to look, whether or not in consultation with the municipality, where you can go with that care question. That seems to me to be a responsibility that the healthcare provider should feel and take. At least it's not good to put it in the hands of the parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u120	The Secretary of State did not want to create treatment sites and then he also says about my motion: yes, the institutions should do so themselves. But the institutions already do not know each other's existence. So I am actually asking the system responsible to take its system responsibility and make that social map. That is not so difficult at all; VWS is capable of more. Just let VWS do that, because what I'm asking is just peanuts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u121	In your interruption, you touched the core, namely that healthcare providers do not know each other's treatment sites. So why don't we call on the healthcare providers to make sure they do? It can't be that the parents of the locker are sent to the wall. It really is a normal responsibility, including of the healthcare providers, to deal with this in consultation with their municipalities or not. The same goes for the broken leg. It would be nice if you came to a hospital with a broken leg and said: we don't have a place; go look somewhere else in the country. That would be really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u122	I don't think we're that far apart. We all say, "If someone comes to a provider who doesn't have a place, I need to know who to call." I don't know now, which is why we might have to make that call. I think the motion supports the Secretary of State in that. I agree with him when he says: what's relevant within a congregation, we don't have to settle nationally. That's right, but we're talking third-line psychiatric help here. I think we've already come to the conclusion that you just can't take care of that by municipality. Let us try to organize the whole as low as possible in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, but let us at the same time exclude this kind of national third-line psychiatric institution. They don't know each other's places, and that's why we need that map.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u123	But in the motion it says "to make a social map of the youth aid offer in the Netherlands together with municipalities." I would therefore have to map out the whole range of youth aid, whereas I now hear from Mr Peters that he thinks it would be good to know which specialist aid is true. Perhaps it will be possible to consider whether the wording is in line with the intention of the proposers. In this form, I would like to discourage the motion. However, I very much agree that the knowledge about where specialist assistance can be provided should be known everywhere, starting with the providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u124	That's what I was thinking. Of course, it is also about the specific mental care that is sometimes needed, for example in the case of disorders such as borderline or anorexia. There are only one or two, or at most a few, institutions in the Netherlands that specialise in this. I would like to read the motion more in that way. I'll go along with the Secretary of State's suggestion. If we look at it this way, would he think it would be a good idea to create a specific social map for complex psychological problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u125	At least I think that's better. I would like to make a point here, or at least I would like to express a wish. If someone comes to a healthcare provider with a call for help, I hope that healthcare provider will also feel a bit like his obligation to take action to help the parents find out if they can go somewhere else. That should not be done via-via-via. But in itself, I have no objection to an insight into where the specialist care can be obtained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u126	Mrs. Kooiman, do you have a specific change in your motion? You have already spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u127	Do we find each other when I amend the motion as follows: "to make a social map of the specialist youth aid offer in the Netherlands together with the municipalities"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u128	Are we talking about the specialist care that takes place above regional level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u129	Of course I'm caterpillar-never-satisfied, but I'll settle for that. At least that's a start. Then the motion may indeed be explained in this way. I will amend the motion by inserting the words "the special youth offer," with the explanation given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u130	Mrs Kooiman therefore proposes that her motion be put to the vote. Amendment No 585 by adding the word'specialist'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u131	Let me say for my part: what is this really about? We have already said to each other: it is not good if there is too little clarity and insight into what kind of care can be provided for some care questions. That's what we all think. You have to make that social map by local authority. If national or supra-regional care is to be provided, that information must be known. Hopefully, care providers will find each other on their own. But of course there has to be that insight. So let us start in this way. Moreover, I intend to make arrangements for this with the network of clinical psychiatrists. If there is to be a national coordination meeting, let us allow this to take place in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u132	The Secretary of State continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u133	Can I make any other suggestions? It says in the motion that the social card should be made "together with the municipalities." My suggestion is to do so together with municipalities and providers. This highlights the responsibility of the providers. Then I could leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u134	As far as the Acts are concerned, I note that Mrs Kooiman is replying in the affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u135	The Kooiman c.s. motion. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas no one knows exactly how many treatment places there are for children in (acute) mental distress;]] [[noting that there is also no overview where these treatment spots can be found in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities and providers, to draw up a social map of the specialised youth aid offer in the Netherlands and to update it annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] She gets no, was no. 585 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u136	I'll come to the motion in part No. 586, which asks that waiting list information is transparent and easy to consult, so that municipalities can better comply with their youth aid obligations. In this case, too, I do not think that we would agree that there should be no such understanding. But I think municipalities and regions should do that for themselves. The request is that the government ensure that the waiting list information is transparent. I believe that the municipalities and the regions should do so with their healthcare providers. For this reason, I would advise against the motion, with the commitment I made during the debate, that I will appeal to all the regions that this information exists and that all the municipalities make agreements on this point. Then I come to the motion on part No. 587 by Mrs Agema. She's going a little further than I promised. I have promised her that I am willing to investigate whether the national direction could also be further strengthened in purchasing, for example by a nationwide transition arrangement. Mrs. Agema's going a little further. In the motion is asked to "buy in nationwide or make it a rural facility." That's going too far for me. My commitment is that I am willing to look together with the VNG at whether a form of a national transition arrangement can be an improvement that will allow more direction to be given to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u137	I'm not asking the Secretary of State to do it right away. I'm asking him to investigate and, if possible, to accomplish it. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State for a little coulance after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u138	Well, Mr. Chairman, I really want to be a little tight on this. We should not make it a nationwide purchase by the Empire, nor should we make it a nationwide supply. I am prepared to investigate how the national direction can be strengthened, for example through a long transition arrangement. If Mrs. Agema wrote that down, we'll get a lot further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u139	And then what? What if I did?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u140	Then the motion judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u141	Well, then that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u142	Then I come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Agenma on item No. 588. It calls on the government to ensure that future monitoring and evaluation of the Youth Act includes the current waiting lists of 42 regions. I just need to see if Mrs. Agema and I understand each other. I have already promised that I will ask municipalities to monitor the agreements to be made in the region on regional cooperation as well as the agreements with the providers, and that I will inform the Chamber on a regular basis. Is that what Mrs. Agema is asking? The request in the motion is broader; there are actual waiting lists in the 42 regions. So we would be collecting the waiting list information by region on a national level. I don't see the added value of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u143	But I thought the Secretary of State earlier agreed to provide information on the waiting lists in his evaluations and monitors. It seems to me that this information has to come from these 42 regions in order to be as up-to-date as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u144	The evaluation of the Youth Act naturally takes into account whether there are waiting lists and whether there is money left or not. We're all gonna look at that, based on that information from the regions. But collecting up-to-date waiting lists of 42 regions seems a bit exaggerated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u145	That's actually what the whole interrupting debate was about. We have had very big debates on this in the past, for example on the Ross resources of the forerunner, forerunner, forerunner of this Secretary of State. It is very important for the House of Representatives to have an insight into the waiting lists. It is important that they are up-to-date and accurate. I can remember so many debates on this. With Rouvoet and Bussemaker and Veldhuijzen van Zanten and Ross... It's a huge loss that suddenly we don't have that anymore. So I think the Chamber really needs to have that insightful. And you get that information from those 42 regions; you don't get it from a shoebox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u146	No, but in the context of the evaluation of the Youth Act at the beginning of next year, we will, of course, see what the first results are, what it means if the waiting lists have increased or decreased and if regional agreements have been made. All this takes place, but current waiting lists of 42 regions to be kept at national level when the information is actually interesting at local level really go too far. We will really try to feed the evaluation as well as possible with all the information needed for this, but I think that keeping up with current waiting lists that need to be put into effect locally is going too far. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u147	In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u148	But then I ask the Secretary of State to repeat what commitment he has made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u149	I have promised that I have agreed with the municipalities that they will make regional agreements on their cooperation so that they can also jointly purchase care. It was also agreed that they would agree with their suppliers on the size of the offer and the waiting times, which should be public. The information on whether these agreements are actually and satisfactorily made, I gather from all regions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u150	I don't really hear a big difference in it. I'm not asking the Secretary of State to keep a constant record of current events. However, I would ask him to add this current poll at the time when there is a monitor going to the Chamber or the evaluation which I believe is going to the Chamber once every five years or once every three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u151	Now, let's do this. My proposal would be that Mrs Agema should continue the motion so that we can look at what information we are all gathering for the purposes of the evaluation. Then we can see if that information is sufficient for the Chamber. I would like to avoid having to collect up-to-date waiting lists at national level which are not relevant to us but which are at regional level. This is because the current situation is always behind the facts, because it is already out of date before you make it. However, I can imagine that the Chamber would like to know what the situation is for the evaluation of the Youth Act. Is it increasing? Is it taking off? Is the money increasing or decreasing? That's all the information we collect. So if Mrs Agema continues the motion, we can see what we will and will not take with us in the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u152	You have been asked a question, Mrs Agema. You can answer that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u153	What the Secretary of State is saying now is actually exactly what I mean, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we have talked about this a little longer and that you have made that possible. It is really not my concern that we keep a constant record of whether one person is on a particular waiting list today or tomorrow. The point is that we get that information at times when we evaluate our system responsibility in this house, in a monitor or in an evaluation, so once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u155	In the motion in part No. 589 is requested until the new legislative amendment to the Youth Act enters into force...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u156	Apologies. Mrs Agema, I understand that you have the motion in part No. Five hundred and eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty-eighty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u157	Yeah, but you're gonna do that for a six-week period. I hope, therefore, that the Secretary of State will not be able to send his response in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u158	I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u159	I think it's two months, and the recess doesn't count. You'll have a little more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u160	Then I come to the motion on part No. 589, in which the Cabinet is asked to conduct national direction in sufficient places until the new law on the Youth Act enters into force. I don't think that's a good idea. The municipalities have the responsibility. They must ensure that good care is bought in and that measures are taken if this is not enough. It seems to me that it would be very confusing if we were to direct ourselves until the legislative amendment came into force. I have already promised in the debate that I would like to examine, for example, whether a national transition arrangement is possible. I have already promised that we are preparing a legislative amendment which will allow us to lay down detailed rules for regional cooperation. I therefore do not consider this motion to be of added value and would therefore like to discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u161	Above all, we want to look at possible solutions. In the debate we have already noted a number of times that there are parents and young people who now need urgent help, and that assistance is often not available. We can easily refer to municipalities, but it does not happen there. I asked the Secretary of State in the debate whether, in certain cases, he could not use his perseverance to force a solution. That's actually what I'm saying in the motion. If that is not the best solution, what are we supposed to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u162	To address the responsibility where it is, namely that municipalities need to purchase sufficient care and that healthcare providers ensure that acute care can be provided in an acute demand for care. If this is not possible for any reason, they must consult the municipalities. I will address the municipalities and the healthcare providers. I will make a legislative amendment so that we can make further rules to ensure that this cooperation is achieved. I have taken care of it and will ensure that I talk to the providers and the network of clinical psychiatrists about how to improve placement coordination. That's my responsibility from the system, but I don't have the responsibility to take control of the procurement. It really belongs to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u163	I understand the answer, but at the same time that's not a solution for now. That is why I shall put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u164	I stand by my judgment that I am deceiving the motion in this form. In the motion in part No. 590 healthcare providers and municipalities are asked to disclose the information. I have already said that the proposal for regional cooperation creates an AMvB possibility that allows us to lay down more detailed rules on this. In that context, I agree that we are going to examine whether we can commit ourselves to making that information visible. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 591 wants to oblige municipalities to have a contact point for 2018. I have some difficulty with this motion for a resolution because we are taking it back into the authority of the municipality. Municipalities will have to arrange a good point of contact for their citizens. Sometimes it will be a municipal point of contact, sometimes it will be a point of contact with a healthcare provider with whom the municipality has made arrangements. This motion wants all municipalities to have a contact point for 2018. To my taste, that's a municipal responsibility. We've already agreed on this. I have already promised Mr El Yassini that I will check with the municipalities to what extent they have these formal points. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. In the motion in part No. 592 the government is asked to take stock of which municipalities have not organized perseverance and to persuade them to do so, whether regional or otherwise. The motion is in line with the debate. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 593 the government is invited to inform the Chamber of a realistic timetable with deadlines when regional cooperation has to be achieved before adopting the AMvB. I'm a little intrigued by the last sentence. It is my intention to pass on the article of law which states that we can lay down detailed rules. The authors of the motion seem to say: hold off on that AMvB until we know what's going on. I see that the motion is meant to be different. The motion is in line with the debate. I've already told you I want this, so I'm leaving the judgment to the Chamber. I notice you're not more careful with that AMvB than I am. In the motion in part No. 594 is asked to bring the high-complex youth ggz under the responsibility of the Empire. I would strongly advise against this motion. The core of the Youth Act is that we end the fragmentation with the provinces, the Empire and the municipalities that all have a role to play in youth and youth care. It is essential that we recognise problems earlier, that problems do not worsen, that we can work more preventively, that we can scale up and scale down and that responsibility for helping young people is clearly invested. That's why I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u165	Wouldn't it be right to combat this fragmentation if we just put everything under one roof, namely the Empire?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u166	In the course of the preparation of this debate, I have looked at the way the debates in this Chamber have been on the Youth Act and on youth care. I came across a letter from one of my predecessors, Mr Rouvoet, from 2009 on the waiting list issue. Then we had a whole debate with the Chamber about the Parliamentary Working Party on Youth. The observation: we really need to put an end to this fragmentation, we need to be able to work more preventively; let us ensure that this responsibility is clearly invested with the government closest to the citizen. That is where it must take place, there must be accessible facilities and, if necessary, there must be scaled up. That's very essential. I think it is very important that this does not concern part of youth care, but integral youth care, including youth-ggz. We need to be able to identify mental problems early. We shouldn't go into youth aid until later to find out that there's a psychological problem. We should not only focus heavily on psychological aid, but also on educational support. That is why it is so important to regulate youth aid and youth care at a low threshold, with the government closest to the citizen. We come from the situation that it was organized far away. That didn't work. That is why we need to make sure that the Youth Act works properly. That is also why I am so motivated, unfortunately, to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u167	50PLUS clearly disagrees with the Secretary of State, especially since this concern is still at the age of 18. You know our position. We think this should be under one roof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u168	I note that all aid for young people is now under one roof, namely the municipality, close to the citizen. I think it's a big good thing to get that working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u169	Thank you. I note that there is still a slight lack of clarity on one point. Mrs Agema has her motion in part No. 588 on the waiting list data and the monitor. The question to the Secretary of State is whether he wishes to supply the requested information to the Chamber within the time limit of detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u170	I will see if we can clarify what is in the mid-term review that will be prepared early next year. I thought we already had a piece on that. If that is not the case, I will inform the Chamber separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u171	There are a lot of people who e-mailed me and e-mailed Emma's parents. The children's psychiatrists have also provided a number of cases for the booklet. I would be delighted if the Secretary of State, if necessary in writing, would respond so that I can inform these people, because they all have a very big problem. I think it would be wise to get a reaction to that at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u172	I'd like that. You will understand that I will not presume any professional judgment of the cases. I have said that, on the basis of the cases, I will address the responsible municipalities and healthcare providers, so that we can know if they know about it and what solutions there are. I am prepared to inform the Chamber when I have the results of the consultation of the municipalities and the providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-21-tweedekamer-14.u173	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the House of Representatives.
