ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u2	Mr. Chairman. Traffic accidents, air pollution, animal suffering, animal disease crises such as last year's massive killing of 727,500 healthy ducks, chickens and turkeys related to avian influenza, and even the complete burning of forests in power plants all contribute to national income, gross domestic product, but of course they do not contribute anything positive to our society. Why are we staring blindly at economic figures that say nothing about the strength of our community, our happiness, safety, the environment, caring for each other and vulnerable people or the opportunities to develop your talents in this country? The problem of gross domestic product as a measure of our prosperity is that it does not measure what is valuable, but what is worthless. Already in 1804, scientist Alexander von Humboldt used the broad argument of prosperity when it was argued that the abolition of slavery would reduce American cotton production. Von Humboldt rightly remarked: "Public welfare could not be measured according to the value of its export." So we have to look beyond our bookkeeper's nose. We only have a vague idea of the long-term consequences of our actions, for example in the ecological sense. However, we think we can know exactly how many jobs there will be in 2040 if we let the Central Planning Office count. No wonder most parties are staring blindly at those bookkeepers' figures. They know the price of everything, but they don't know the value of anything. This one-sided economic logic must be broken. We must allow measuring instruments such as the degree of safety, the state of nature and the environment and the extent to which people can feel happy in the Netherlands to become decisive in the development of policy. We must start to see them as a measure of how well our country is doing, even if we cannot immediately trace them back to terms of easy-to-understand single numbers such as GDP. The committee's report and the government's reaction to it are a good first step, but it does not go far enough as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. During the euro crisis, we were extremely concerned about a 3% budget deficit and we hardly cared about our ecological deficit, which is tenfold. The ecological deficit is enormous. Every year we consume more than 30% too much of raw materials such as fresh water, wood and food, 30% more than the earth can produce annually. Every year, we've been through our raw materials supply before. Earth Overshoot Day fell in 1980 on 14 December; we had already finished everything. In 2016, Earth Overshoot Day had already moved to August 8th. So for the last four and a half months of last year we lived on the puff of future generations. We borrow from our children and grandchildren, even if they haven't even been born yet. We use raw materials that cannot be replenished at the rate we use them. It is therefore necessary to reduce our ecological footprint, as it is called, and to use this important indicator. We agree with the committee that the Central Planning Bureau, the Planning Office for the Environment, but also the Scientific Board for Government Policy and RIVM should work with a broad concept of prosperity. We will also have to force the government to work with a broad concept of prosperity, both as a test before a government agreement is concluded, policy making, and afterwards. It is not enough for the Chamber and Cabinet to limit themselves to using the welfare indicators only if the policy has been long-established. The information from the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor and the Balance of the Environment should be used to determine the policy, not just to look at the state of the country afterwards. It's the only way to keep the Earth alive. Last week, the cabinet responded to the introduction of a meat tax proposed by RIVM and the Planning Office for the Environment, with the simple assumption that this measure is bad for the economy. This one-sided view must be broken by examining whether it really is and, if so, how we can solve it and, not forgetting, what impact such a measure has on, for example, the climate, animal welfare and public health. How much cost, for example, can we save on health care if we take such a tax measure? The indicators available help to achieve this. As long as GDP and economic growth continue to lead the drafting of the coalition agreement and budgets, we will continue to lag behind the undesirable consequences for humans, animals, nature and the environment. The major issues we face require a much more precise policy with objectives which can also be met. In this way, we also make political dilemmas and exchange policy visible, not only to us in the Chamber, but also to the citizen rather than to sweep them under the carpet by simply looking at everything from the point of view of gross domestic product policy. Gross domestic product should at most be supportive, not leading. I'd like a response from the Minister. I have tabled two motions in the debate with the committee which seek to involve the broad concept of prosperity in policy-making. I would like to receive a substantive response from the cabinet to these motions which I would like to put to the vote after this debate. The General Court previously advised in a recent study to also reflect the social impact of austerity by involving social impacts in the passing on and decision-making of the government agreement. This recommendation is repeated in response to this report. I would like a response from the cabinet to the opinion of the General Court. Moreover, the General Court, following the example of the Central Statistical Office, points to the lack of sufficient indicators for the so-called Sustainable Development Goals. These are goals that are about promoting broad prosperity around the world, including the eradication of poverty, combating climate change and loss of biodiversity. What about developing the indicators to measure the Sustainable Development Goals? Finally, the Court makes the suggestion that goes beyond the recommendation of the Temporary Chambers Committee to include issues from the monitor of broad prosperity and the Sustainable Development Goals in the Financial Annual Report Reich. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? I'm considering a motion on this point. The Netherlands should also become the main advocate of such an integral concept of values in the international gremia where consideration is being given to the renewal of the national accounting system, such as the OECD's Intersecretarial Working Group on National Accounts of the UN. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? We should link experiments with the new broad concept of prosperity to the necessary revision of our tax system. This has been on the table for some time now, but it has been lacking political courage over the past four years, as well as the necessary political imagination to speed this up and radically reform our tax system and make it sustainable. Fortunately, next month, March 15th, there will be elections to allow some braver politicians to be in power. Let us say goodbye to the tunnel vision that monetary indicators, such as GDP, impose on us, and let us make every effort to develop policies to promote well-being for everyone as much as possible. That is why I believe that the bio-industry must be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u3	Mr. Chairman. Recently, the Central Planning Bureau reported that separating boys and girls in education is leading to learning gains. The Centraal Planbureau also reported that learning benefits from separating children by level at primary school. Last week, the NOS reported that the fire department costs the Netherlands more than a billion; about €63 per Dutchman. The message was only about the costs and still some about the differences in costs per region. The dozens of lives saved by these costs do not matter. The World Health Organisation informed us that smoking produces 250 billion in excise duty worldwide and 1,400 billion in healthcare costs and lost productivity. Lost productivity means getting sick or dying of smoking. There are now about 6 million related deaths a year. Diagnosis treatment combinations provide better economic results and opportunities for austerity, but in practice mainly lead to greater distance between treatment and patient and more administration rather than care. It is these kinds of reports and reports that point us to the need for a broader view. It's never just about one dimension, whether it's learning gain or financial gain. We should not abolish the fire department because it costs a billion dollars, or re-introduce boys' and girls' schools because it is a bit of a learning gain. With the creation of the monitor broad prosperity we are taking an important step in countering economics. A view of wider prosperity helps in a broader debate. The House of Representatives is concerned not only with gross domestic product, public debt, and not even with employment, but also with how the country and how each individual citizen stands, not only with regard to the wallet, but also with regard to the chances of a good and appropriate education, how safe one feels and how nature stands and how we expect our country to stand when our children are grown up. It is not just about how much economic growth we expect in the next five years or how much unemployment there will be next year, but it is also about what our children are learning now, which is relevant for 20 years from now. The point is that our economic growth has not been at the expense of their nature and that paying off our public debt does not mean that they no longer have infrastructure. What colleagues Van Ojik and Pechtold had in mind with their first motion was that we could have a broader debate on the long-term and the state of the country rather than the short-term and only the macroeconomic indicators. The point is that what we earn here and now is not at the expense of later and elsewhere. This monitor will help a lot to debate this on the basis of facts. My group is therefore very pleased with the cabinet response. We see this as an excellent example of what the Grashoff Committee had in mind. The width of the monitor allows us to see where we need to adjust immediately. We can use the monitor to ensure that all government policy is also relevant in the long term. This was also at the heart of my adopted motion, which was cited by the cabinet. The cabinet must always relate the monitor to policy. Just as a financial report sometimes makes the need for adjustment clear and possible, so will the monitor. That's why it's important for the cabinet to tell us what it's doing with the monitor. This naturally results in an evaluation of the monitor, accountability to the debate, and the result is then included in the budget. I wonder what possibilities the Minister sees for this. According to my group, the Millions Note provides a good opportunity to respond to the policy response on the monitor. In addition, the General Court recommends that the components of the monitor be included in the National Financial Report. What does the Minister think about that? We are working together on laws for the whole of the Netherlands. We have different political views on this, but everyone tries to contribute to the Netherlands in their own way. The committee's report and the Court's response point out that there is a lack of policy evaluation. That is why it is important that we know the effects of the rules and measures that pass through the Chamber. Everyday's political practice shows that there is often too little attention to a thorough review of policies. The monitor is a great opportunity to take a big step in this. We prefer to know policy effects in advance. Planning agencies have already started this, but developing the monitor will merge a lot of information. It is also an excellent opportunity to take a next step with better governance and control. According to the Minister, are there any possibilities here? What are the options for using the policy evaluation monitor? The cabinet proposes a transition path, with a final final final version of the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor in 2017. That is a logical step in itself, but it seems practical to my group to work towards the other monitor in a transitional version as much as possible. Does the Minister see opportunities for this? In the cabinet response, the Minister mentions the explorations that the planning agencies are going to carry out as a sort of view based on the monitor. Can he explain this? What exactly is this gonna look like? What's the difference with the existing reconnaissance? Will it be integrated, broader explorations, in which links are established between several aspects? What subjects will be covered? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is in favour of the proposal, but great care is needed here. Can the Minister inform the Chamber during the course of this year about the further development of the reconnaissance of the planning offices? If so, when? I'm rounding up. My group very much welcomes the commitments on the monitor. We can hardly wait for the debate on what people think is important, on the basis of facts and on the basis of what the cabinet has done about it over the past year and the goals it has achieved. I would once again like to congratulate the Breed Commission on its concept of prosperity, because it is good that people's representatives from almost all parties have supported a broader concept of prosperity in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u4	Mr. Chairman. Gross domestic product is an important figure in the public and political debate. It shows how the economy is doing and, for example, our country's contribution to the European Union. European budgetary standards are also based on them. But GDP doesn't measure how well a country is doing. It doesn't even measure how well the economy is. It only speaks about the volume of market production. In politics there is a need for figures that say more. That is why a committee of our Parliament has looked into this and has come up with recommendations. Our group greatly appreciates the work of this committee. Broad prosperity is, the Committee notes, more than GDP alone. The Committee assumes that broad prosperity encompasses all kinds of things that provide for people's needs to be satisfied. This concerns material aspects and important issues such as education, sustainability, safety, health, the environment, the informal economy and innovation. In addition to GDP, the Committee believes that more indicators are needed to establish this broad prosperity on a dashboard. In an earlier debate with the committee, the CDA has already expressed its full support for this. We are therefore pleased to hear that the cabinet is taking the advice. Can the minister indicate what he's not taking over? I got a bit of an impression from the contributions of the fellow spokesmen that perhaps not everything is being taken over, while I have the impression that the Minister is going to do so. It is good that the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor is being developed into a monitor wide prosperity. The CDA supports the committee's advice to pay attention to the prosperity of future generations in the monitor. The CDA believes that the prosperity of the here and now is important, but also the prosperity of the inhabitants of this beautiful country after us. In his letter, the cabinet states that it agrees with this. Can the cabinet also indicate how future prosperity is mapped in the monitor? The CDA is curious to see which standardised indicators of broad prosperity will be included in the monitor's broad prosperity We would like to receive a further explanation from Minister Kamp. We also want the Netherlands to play a leading role in the international harmonisation of the measurement of broad prosperity. Does the Cabinet agree with the CDA and, if so, can it outline how it sees this? Since 2004, joint working groups of the UN, OECD and Eurostat, in which the World Bank and national statistical offices are also participating, have been working on international harmonisation of the measurement of broad prosperity. An important result of this is the publication in 2014 of recommendations for measuring sustainable developments, the so-called CES recommendations (Conference of European Statisticians). The CDA supports the committee's recommendation to follow broad prosperity in the new monitor and therefore not develop a new set of indicators for the Netherlands. I see that there is a question now and I think the President would like to give it the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u5	Yeah, I'd love to. Mrs Thieme of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u6	Mrs Mulder rightly said that we should also look at the impact of policy on future generations, especially in terms of prosperity, the well-being of future generations. Does Mrs Mulder agree with me that we should look not only at the prosperity of future generations but also at the effects of our actions on people in developing countries? In many cases, our prosperity is also built on the fragile and narrow shoulders of people in developing countries, who often have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u7	I think that is a very valid point. We, as CDA, have often drawn attention to this. We also asked about the effects of trade agreements such as CETA and TTIP, because what Mrs Thieme says does not want us to; it would also be unfair. I am going to say a few words about the world targets, which Mrs Thieme has just mentioned. It is not just about solidarity within our country but also about solidarity with other countries. So it goes both ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u8	Does Mrs Mulder therefore agree with me that we should not only carry out an ex post evaluation of policies on the basis of these indicators but that we should do so in advance, in other words during policy-making, even during the preparation of the Millions Note and the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u9	In the previous discussion of this important point, we said: let us first choose a moment, and if we find out from the monitor that it is necessary to talk about it in advance, then we can do so. So we're not ruling that out right now, but first I'm going along with the committee's recommendation to do it on Accountability Day. I think the Minister is going to implement that recommendation. Last week we had a debate with Minister Ploumen on the global goals. You will notice that this is spread across so many ministries that it is not at all clear, for example, what impact it has on inland navigation in relation to those world goals. I also told the Minister that there could be an effect in this sense, that if it becomes more sustainable, it would be more beneficial for the world's goals. The Minister said that he would send a letter to the Chamber on behalf of the cabinet before the elections. So we have to keep a close eye on these things, because it doesn't go automatically, just like that. The CDA agrees that the best chance is for us to set up something authoritative with each other worldwide in which we can compare countries in a good way. That seems to us desirable when we think about these world goals. Can the Cabinet indicate whether it agrees with this and in what way this can take shape in the monitor broad prosperity? As the CDA pointed out in the previous debate on the broad concept of prosperity, it also wonders how the monitor will address the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, the global goals, as I call them. The Netherlands agreed to these targets at the UN Summit in September 2015. The CDA is curious about the way in which the cabinet has the six recommendations and the Sustainable Development Goals connected in the monitor. I would like to receive a response from the cabinet. Finally. The CDA agrees that the Cabinet should adopt the Committee's advice in order to consider this important subject every year during the debate on accountability. The CDA looks forward to the appearance of the first monitor and, like its chairman, who is here today, thanks once again for her commitment, the fine result and the valuable recommendations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u10	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Cabinet for its response to the report of the Committee on Wide Prosperity. This report is about how to measure real prosperity and how to translate it into political practice once you know it. How do you measure prosperity? Is it about prosperity now or about prosperity in the future? How do these two relate to each other? Gross domestic product is not the measure of all things. Real prosperity is much wider. There is regularly criticism of the one-sided focus on GDP as the blissful measure of prosperity in a country. More production is not equal to more prosperity. Shortly: if you have a broken car due to an accident, the production in the market increases as a result of the repair, but the impact on the environment remains the same. In terms of gross domestic product, an increase of 0.3% can cover both education expenditure and expenditure that contributes less to prosperity. In the event of an increase in prosperity, today's GDP is also an investment in the GDP of the future. Everyone feels that GDP cannot tell the whole story, in other words, GDP only measures transactions in the economy and not things like investing in our environment, volunteering or other valuable things in life. The report was discussed last year and embraced by the House of Representatives. A cabinet response was also requested at that time. It's there now. All recommendations are accepted. I'm gonna walk by them a little bit. The Committee advises the Central Bureau of Statistics to further develop the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor into a monitor of broad prosperity, based on the OECD's so-called Better Life Index. The Committee and the Cabinet adopt a pragmatic approach. The PvdA finds the Committee's argument convincing on this point. The cabinet deserves compliments for accepting the recommendations favourably. The PvdA would like to know how the commitment to the additional resources needed for the CBS to develop the monitor's broad prosperity is further implemented. The second recommendation is to make this monitor an important subject in the annual debate on accountability. The Minister states that the state of affairs with regard to broad prosperity year after year will not be fundamentally different and that it is not obvious that any new monitor will lead to new policies or a shift of priorities. How does the Minister view Stegeman's publication in the Economic Static Reports of two weeks ago in this light? The researchers show that their indicator varies considerably over the years. This is a reason for the PvdA to ask to present the implications for policy development in an annual cabinet response on a day of accountability. I would like to receive a response from the Minister. Finally, I would like to consider the balance between prosperity now and prosperity later. We all know that the Netherlands is facing the big challenge of moving towards a sustainable economy. This requires substantial investment, including from the government. In my opinion, the cabinet does not escape a reflection on the discount rate that the government should count on in these public investments. More specifically, are the yield requirements currently imposed on public investment not too high from the perspective of sustainability? Are other non-financial risks for the future, which are thus eliminated, sufficiently taken into account? Can the government reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u11	Mr. Chairman. In the debate with the committee, the PVV has already indicated that it does not like the broad concept of prosperity as a new term in politics. Wide prosperity is a subjective concept, which is different for every citizen. A broad concept of prosperity, in which we summarize the prosperity of the Netherlands, is like a broad party programme in which all political parties can recognize themselves. There is no such thing, by definition, and therefore a broad concept of prosperity will not say much about the prosperity in the Netherlands as the citizen experiences. The broad concept of prosperity will say something about prosperity as seen by the ruling elite. There is already a gap between reality as the citizens experience it, and reality as most politicians see it. The Hague politicians think that safety in the Netherlands is doing well. The ordinary citizen notes that there is no point in reporting it, because the police are not doing anything about it. In The Hague, sustainability is the magic word to unlock billions of euros of subsidy. For citizens, the whole debate on climate and sustainability is of secondary importance, as we read recently in Elsevier. The cabinet keeps calling for us to be out of the crisis, but the disposable income remains at the level of almost ten years ago. The number of people in welfare is continuing to grow. The gap between citizens and politics will only widen if we introduce a broad concept of prosperity into politics with subjective concepts. The PVV therefore prefers to adhere to the concept of "gross domestic product" as an approach to the state of our prosperity. It is clear that GDP has limitations, but the benefits outweigh us. GDP can be measured relatively objectively, as opposed to a container concept such as the broad concept of prosperity. Complemented with other objective figures on purchasing power or unemployment, it gives a clear picture of our prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u12	I fully agree with Mrs Klever that there is a reality in The Hague. For example, the cabinet says that it is absolutely safe in our country, while people at home do not feel that way at all. In the Chamber there is often a well-nuke game. Mrs Klever's party or my party then says that what the cabinet says is not right at all and that the cabinet has to work. The cabinet then insists that security in the Netherlands is improving. Is it not important, then, to obtain objective figures from an independent, showing whether or not it has become safer in terms of crime and whether it has increased or decreased? Then we could question the cabinet on the basis of facts, as Mrs Klever also wants, and settle it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u13	Mrs Thieme asks whether it is useful to have objective facts. There will be no such objective facts. If the citizen says that he does not think it has become safer and that he does not report it because the police are not doing anything about it, the objective figures may show that it has become safer. However, that is not the case at all; the citizen alone does not report it. So I do not know what Mrs Thieme wants, but the point is, of course, that the weighting of security, sustainability, climate and development aid and its summing up into one broad concept of prosperity is by definition subjective. Mrs Thieme's party considers sustainability to be very important. For example, my party considers safety to be very important. So we're never gonna figure out how you weigh that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u14	If we have all the facts in a row, with regard to security, the question of whether people feel safe and whether they feel that they are being heard, that they can go to the police with their concerns and their reports, it is also important that this is independent of their opinion. It must be possible for a political party to give it itself. It is not the intention of that broad palette of indicators that there will then be an outcome that each party will sign. No, the point is that we have all the facts in a row, and that each party can say for itself: I simply think that safety is far too bad, and that we need to focus much more on this than, for example, sustainability. The freedom of each party to draw its own conclusions remains the norm. Does Mrs Klever not agree with me that it is important that we have all this independent information and that it is then up to our own parties to draw conclusions from it? Then we can have a very good policy. That's the idea, not to create one program. I wouldn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u15	We have a Central Bureau of Statistics, which keeps track of objective numbers and statistics. It's up to politicians, policy makers, to interpret that. But now it is intended that the CBS, the Central Bureau of Statistics, should make this a single concept. That is no longer objective, by definition, because it is being judged. We have to prevent that. We must prevent the objective figures from being polluted with subjective opinions. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u16	We form the opinions here, as well as the opinions on the figures. We establish these figures on the basis of very clear indicators, for example the extent to which citizens feel safe or the number of victims of certain crimes. That is very concrete and it is figures that the PVV also considers very important. What is against such a monitor, in which all these indicators are placed side by side? Indeed, as Mrs Thieme just pointed out, the parties themselves decide what judgment they attach to it. What a majority achieves ultimately leads to policies. What's against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u17	Let me give you an example. All kinds of terms come along: sustainability, CO, footprint, social feelings, but also discrimination. How can you measure it objectively? By definition, you cannot measure that objectively, and so we cannot take that into account in a so-called objectively measured broad concept of prosperity? That's all very subjective, isn't it? That's my point. Now let's stick to things that you can objectively measure. That's gross domestic product. I'm not saying this is delicious. Of course, you also have to look at unemployment and the distribution of purchasing power. But let us stick to objective figures and leave these subjective feelings to party politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u18	Now it's getting all interesting. Now it's being pretended that we couldn't take feelings seriously among the population. Then I never want to hear from the PVV again that the feelings of insecurity have increased. That would be very strange, wouldn't it? It's up to politics to decide what to do with it. One party may say: I do not care about discrimination. Then you do not include that in your judgment and therefore not in the proposals. However, you cannot say that it does not matter at all. Then the PVV would indeed have to say: well, feelings of insecurity? We'll never do anything with that again. That can't be the point, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u19	I don't think Mrs. Voortman is listening very carefully. I'm not saying ignore feelings. I say, you can't measure them objectively. A feeling is subjective in advance. If you can't measure it already, how can you take it with you in a broad concept of prosperity? I can't do that, can I? Isn't it about having objective figures? The party politics takes the subjective sauce over and weighs all these things in the way she wants to weigh them. Please, let us not let a Central Statistical Office do that. I will continue my speech. The CBS has to publish an annual report on the broad prosperity in the Netherlands. As far as PVV is concerned, keeping up with all kinds of statistics by the CBS is very useful and necessary. However, it does not serve any purpose to summarize these figures in a broad concept of prosperity and this also affects the reputation of the CBS. The interpretation of these statistics must be left to scientists, politicians, opinion makers and companies, and we must ensure that the CBS is governed by the latest fashion trends in politics. We must also ensure that the CBS makes subjective statements which put its credibility under pressure because it will then spread opinions rather than facts. We find it strange that the cabinet is imposing a considerable austerity task on the CBS and that additional resources are suddenly being made available, or less money for the core tasks, such as objective figures, but more money for left-wing hobbies. How does the Minister explain that? In conclusion, the PVV wants politics to stop interfering with the CBS, but to do so less. The CBS should focus on its core task of doing independent statistical research based on objective figures. As far as we are concerned, the Minister is lighting the fireplace with the Breed report's concept of prosperity, even at the expense of our CO footprint. Clean statistics are worth more to us than a polluted political party agency, which is driven by this broad concept of prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u20	I like the debate, but do you think it makes any sense, Mrs Thieme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u21	I'm gonna try again anyway. Like the Party for Animals, the PVV wants the AOW age to be 65 years old. We want that because we have the assumption that this improves the quality of life of everyone. If you've worked hard and you're 65 years old, you can just enjoy your old age. Then you're often up too, for example because you've been a construction worker. Then you're done. This cabinet wants to raise the age of AOW to 67. Isn't it convenient for parties like ours to have an indicator to determine whether the quality of life has improved or deteriorated at a high AOW age and low AOW age? Can we not take advantage of this in the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u22	That would be very nice, but I do not think we can agree on the quality of life. In your speech I hear that 'wide prosperity' means more development aid. I hear that this concept relates to the prosperity of our future generations and to biodiversity and I do not know what it is. That is the broad concept of welfare of the Party for Animals. The PVV doesn't think so. That is party politics, and we must leave it to party politics. Let us not burden the CBS with finding some kind of average of that and saying that prosperity has increased or decreased. Let's keep that out there, please. Let the CBS simply present objective issues, such as gross domestic product and unemployment rates. Let that weighting and that political balance take place in the political programmes and in the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u23	Last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u24	The PVV is also always interested in polls and the answer to the question of how people feel about, for example, the number of refugees arriving in the Netherlands and how safe they feel? These are all indicators on the basis of which we make policies. The committee is now proposing that we should ensure that the standard of indicators of this kind is about feeling in society and, for example, whether there is a majority for a certain ban or for a given commandment should also be included in the policy. These are all indicators on the basis of which we make policies. I still don't understand why the PVV wouldn't want that. On the basis of facts, you can also make your plea firmer, regardless of whether you agree with each other or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u25	The point is that Mrs Thieme talks about facts every time, but they are subjective matters. That's the point. Facts, that's easy. Let me mention a few that I have seen in all these reports. For example, the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor mentions: feelings of discrimination and satisfaction about leisure time. The OECD Better Life index mentions the following issues: election turnout and social contacts. The UN report on equal rights for men and women identified the approach to climate and sustainability. But this is all subjective and cannot be measured objectively. So let us not pollute the CBS with all these subjective things, let us keep it objective. If Mrs Thieme wants to know all these things, there are plenty of reports in which these kinds of things are contained. Absolutely fine, but let's keep the government agency CBS, whose independence is fairly well regulated, independent and objective and not turn it into a political party agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u26	Mr. Chairman. I look back at a good debate with the committee, which I am still very grateful for the work she has done. It is also very nice to have the President present. In response to what the Cabinet has told us the following. The Minister writes in his two comments that he agrees on almost all the conclusions of the report with the Temporary Committee on Wide Prosperity. We are also very pleased to read that the Minister has asked the Central Statistical Office to pay explicit attention to inequality and distribution. However, I would ask him to go into more detail as to what aspects of inequality he has in mind. Broader definitions are needed to really understand impacts such as economic inequality and the correlation with other forms of inequality in, for example, care or education. So I would like to hear from the Minister what inequalities he thinks should be addressed by the CBS. The Minister writes that the CBS is going to carry out a step-by-step study into ways of increasing the actuality of the data in the monitor to be published, but also that he expects that the state of affairs in terms of broad prosperity will not fundamentally differ from one year to the next. The Minister says he is aware that speed is at the expense of the quality of data. Although it is not literal, I assume that he expects that the figures for the monitor will not become much more topical in the short term. I'd like a response. Of course, we all benefit from sound data collection and good predictions, but how many of the indicators that need to be researched now are no longer topical due to the cuts in recent years? For example, the CBS website states that in 2017 10% of the non-compulsory statistics will no longer be published. This is what the CBS writes at the end of a austerity operation already launched in 2011, which cost the CBS a quarter of the previous budget. Is it now difficult to update the data that the CBS is reluctant for scientific reasons, or can it not make the data more up-to-date because human resources and knowledge have been cut off from the Bureau? I'd like a clear response from the Minister. Following on, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the broad welfare indicator published by scientists from Utrecht University and Rabobank in December. Not only does this indicator show that there was a widespread decline in prosperity in the first full year of this cabinet, it also provides an overview of the eleven indicators from the OECD's Better Life Index. They have prepared this indicator on the basis of all kinds of data, including those of the CBS. Now this indicator is not entirely in line with what the report has recommended for broad prosperity, but it still provides a great deal of insight into what is now possible on the basis of all the data available from the various institutes. Can the Minister, having seen and said this, promise that the monitor can be a little more up-to-date and show some more fundamental shifts in broad prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u27	Mr. Chairman. I am here today to welcome my colleague and would like to begin by congratulating the committee which has produced this excellent report. A broad concept of prosperity should actually make sense for all of us. We all know that well-being is much more than prosperity and who thinks you can do without clean air, for example: try holding your breath for ten minutes. Prosperity is about much more than just our gross national product. I am very pleased that the Klever/Pechtold motion, in which the cabinet was called upon to conduct this investigation, has been adopted and carried out. The cabinet is working well on the committee's recommendations. From 2018 onwards, there will be a monitor of broad prosperity, prior to the Accountability debate. The presentation is based on the OECD Better Life Index, as proposed by the Committee. There will also be more insight into the distribution and inequality, including an international comparison. Inequality is a permanent focus, even in a country like the Netherlands, which, of course, belongs to the countries with the least inequality. Here too, however, it is a point of interest, and it is important to look at this in the broadest possible way. The Chamber has asked for a cabinet response to be given annually to the monitor's broad prosperity. Fortunately, in its first reaction, the cabinet has already promised to come up with this. The cabinet response should then come between the appearance of the monitor wide prosperity and the Accountability debate, or be sent to the Chamber at the same time as the monitor on Accountability Day. In the second cabinet response, the monitor is much more detailed about broad prosperity but suddenly no longer talks about the annual cabinet response. I think it is very important that the Minister makes it clear once again that there will really be a cabinet response to that monitor of broad prosperity every year. It is also very important that this cabinet response be sent to the Chamber in good time, so that both documents can be a full part of the debate on the Day of Accountability. Can the Minister reassure my group on this? The cabinet insists on quickly evaluating the frequency of the monitor because indicators may not change much every year. Of course, we are never against evaluation. I think it is very important to properly evaluate what we are doing and we must also realise that producing such a monitor is not free. It is also the responsibility of the Chamber that the results are given the attention they deserve. But the purpose of the monitor is to ensure that broad prosperity is not always the only measure of gross national product and that it is put in a broader setting of indicators. Then a very regular monitor is very important. There are many GDP estimates and measurements every year. The CBS measures GDP growth every quarter and the CPB makes a GDP estimate four times a year. Putting a broad welfare monitor next to it once a year seems to me to be an excellent balance. Let us not water it further, because it will be difficult to include it in the annual policy cycle. The cycle of policy, implementation and accountability should not only be about the euros but also about all the other policies we conduct and the effects it has on prosperity in the Netherlands. I think it was Mrs Thieme's apology if I wrongly did not give another colleague the credits that I had already asked for the integrated indicator set up by Utrecht University. We would find it interesting to see if this indicator could play a role in the monitor's wide prosperity. I ask the Minister if he is prepared to do so. In another motion tabled during the debate with the committee, the cabinet was asked to indicate in the Millions note how the results of the monitor will get broad prosperity a place during the budget. This is exactly what I have just said: when we say that we are really going to look at broad prosperity, I think we should ensure that when we use the policy, when we determine the amount of money we put into policy and when we evaluate it, we have a closed cycle, which we have to complete every year in terms of all aspects. It will really benefit us. A motion was tabled on this subject, which was held at the time because, of course, the committee was unable to respond to that request on behalf of the cabinet. There is nothing about this in the cabinet response. I ask the Minister how he looks at this request. I hope, of course, that he intends to accept that request with a positive response. In ten minutes, I will have another debate that starts in this Chamber, on a subject for which I am also responsible. So I will not be able to attend this whole debate, but of course I will be listening carefully to the Minister's answers and the further input of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u28	It's been noted. Thank you very much. Then I can give the floor to Mr Geselschap on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u29	Mr. Chairman. The temporary committee Breed welfare concept arose from the idea that there is more important than just the economy. The VVD Group wholeheartedly agrees with that thought. What good is a country where things are going well economically, but things such as safety, health, care and freedom are not in order? Personally, that's the same. My health is worth more to me than the balance of my bank account. My personal experience of prosperity also contributes if I can put a nice piece of meat on the barbecue in the summer. There are things that are worth a lot more to me, like the future of my children. Are they in a good school? Can they be safe across the street? Can they later enjoy our freedoms that we as the Netherlands have worked so hard on? The premise that prosperity is more than economy is not a discussion. Then we come to a technical discussion. How exactly are you going to measure that? For me as an economist, this is an interesting issue, but not everyone is equally excited about it. When I talk to my friends about it, they say: there are all kinds of lists, why don't you use them? I'm gonna have to agree with them. Thanks to solid agencies such as the Central Bureau of Statistics and the Planning Offices, there are many good data available, including on the broad prosperity. This is also supported by the Welvaart report in map. This wide availability of data raises the question of whether the focus of the report is correct. The report presents structural solutions such as the development of a new instrument and a special debate. But should we no longer focus on a cultural solution, the mentality to involve available objective data in the debate? We must do this not only in the context of the debate on accountability but in every debate in the Chamber. In addition, you don't have to wait for a developed dashboard with a limited set of indicators. You can already use the many available data, even outside the macro-economic field. It is not only in the debate that measurable objective data are important, but also in policy proposals and budgets. Our colleague Duisenberg insists on that. It is therefore good news that the Compatibility Act has recently been amended and, in addition to legality, it also looks at effectiveness and efficiency. It is important that we in the Chamber ask for effectiveness and efficiency to be part of our DNA. I also notice this in many of my colleagues' calls: look at the facts and look at the effects. As a new Member of Parliament, I must also point out that we do not always do that. That's how I was in a debate on an initiative law last week. To a question from the CDA how many children were actually helped with it, an initiator's answer was that this could not be properly estimated. On the VVD side, after a quick calculation that it would cost hundreds of millions to implement the law, it was asked if there could be a proper cost analysis. But no, that wasn't necessary. We obviously do not want such dates to be included in the debate. It is mainly about the mentality that we always use the available dates, on every subject and on every legislative proposal or budget. The fact that I prefer to focus on the right mentality does not alter the report at all. It's a really good report. I think it's nice that it describes relatively briefly a very complex matter. I would like to join with all the compliments that have already been given to Mr Grashoff, his colleagues and, above all, the staff. I'll go into the report and the letter of inquiry. The report and the Minister's letter rightly emphasise the importance of international comparability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u30	You're going to zoom in now, but Mrs Voortman has another question about the general introductory story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u31	I can sympathise strongly with Mr Geselschap when he points out that we often have bad habits and that we are not interested in the facts at all. No Member of Parliament can say that he or she is absolutely sin-free in that regard. We see that the culture is not good. Then it can help that there are instruments that force us to break those habits. I see the report and the response of the Minister who adopts the recommendations as a way of changing culture. These are instruments such as the policy evaluation and the rapporteurship. That is actually very much in line with what Mr Duisenberg says by Mr Geselschap. Doesn't Mr Geselschap agree that you need these instruments to force us out of that bad culture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u32	Instruments can help with cultural change. I also called the author of the Rabobank report and spoke to him extensively. The sentence came back: we are actually doing this in order to change culture. I wholeheartedly agree with him. But take something like dirt on the street. You can use an instrument like more garbage cans, but is that really going to make a difference? You can also put up posters with the text: "Throwing dirt on the street? Not normal!" This gives you a bit of the culture that you don't, because that trash can alone doesn't mean that people actually throw their dirt in it. An instrument can be helpful, I admit that, but that culture is important to me. Mrs Voortman rightly says that this applies to all Members of Parliament. The same will apply to me and my direct colleagues in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u33	I think we can then agree that these instruments can help to force us into this better culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u34	Yes, but let us not wait for those instruments to come and be fully developed. Let us make use of all the data available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u35	We have seen in the last financial and economic crisis that economists and other economists were mistaken in their predictions of how the economy is developing. Does Mr Geselschap agree with me that we should focus on indicators other than those which bear witness to the rather limited view of economic science in particular on the development of our prosperity and the economy in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u36	There is absolutely more than economics, but it is absolutely necessary to maintain gross domestic product, even if it is not sufficiently usable as an indicator of broad prosperity. It says something about the size of the economy. It has a predictive value for employment and tax revenues, which are again needed to finance things that Mrs Thieme personally considers important for her broad concept of prosperity, such as animal welfare and windmills. Without good gross domestic product, we have very little to send.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u37	Certainly, gross domestic product may be part of a dashboard of indicators but it is very limited. I believe the VVD just recognized that as well. Only it is still used as a leading indicator in government policy. Does Mr Geselschap not agree that we really need to get rid of GDP as a leading indicator and that it can only be part of other indicators?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u38	It is certainly an indicator among others, but for the VVD it is a very important indicator. Mrs Thieme makes him a little subordinate, but for us economic growth remains an important prerequisite for all kinds of other things that you want to achieve in a very pleasant society. I think that the popular wisdom that does not make money happy but helps, also applies to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u39	Mr. Fellowship continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u40	I was talking about international comparability, which I believe is rightly emphasised in the report and in the letter from the ministers. The lists I mentioned earlier are not so popular for nothing. It shows how you score against other countries. Is the Netherlands second or can we also become first? Then I prefer our Prime Minister, who likes to put the Netherlands on one level. It is also clear from the report that many international efforts have already been made to achieve a broad concept of prosperity and that international clarity is needed. Many of these attempts have died in beauty or are far from finished. It is therefore a very sensible opinion in the report to build on the most promising international initiative and not to reinvent the wheel. At the same time, it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u41	For a moment, I was referring to something that Mr. Fellowship said...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u42	I thought you'd already left, but you're still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u43	I'm still here. I thought I'd wait until the last speaker of the Chamber arrived. Mr Geselschap just said that there is no international clarity. He then continued with other international indicators. According to the VVD, should you only do this if there is total international clarity? Or could it also be very useful to look at how to get a picture in the Netherlands on the basis of the OECD index? Why is this international clarity for the VVD so important for mapping a broad concept of prosperity here in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u44	We do not want to wait until there is absolute international clarity, because then you can wait until midnight. Mrs Van Veldhoven will therefore hear that we are embracing the Minister's letter. International comparability is important. If Dafne Schippers doesn't know what the world record is on the 200 meters, she doesn't know if she's training good or bad either. It's kind of nice to know how you work with others. Our road safety is quite in order in relation to other countries. You find where the differences are, because then you can improve your policy on those points. International comparability contributes a great deal. Then it's nice if we use exactly the same unique methods to measure, otherwise you compare apples with pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u45	That's true. It contributes to the usefulness of the indicators if you can compare them. Then it must indeed be equal and unambiguous, because otherwise you do not know whether you are adjusting your policy properly. The VVD seemed to be heading in the direction that we should wait until there is complete clarity. I think that we will lose a great deal of time in which we can already get a picture of the development in the Netherlands. When I see my hard times improving, I benchmark myself and see that there is progress. This is useful in addition to the importance of the international comparison endorsed by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u46	Benchmarking to yourself and in time, of course, something says about whether it's better, whether it's going the right way, but it doesn't say anything about the space that's left to take profit. Perhaps you are trying to stop a lot of energy from reaching that last 1% to 2% and we can better focus our resources on another, also important, goal. I think there is no difference of opinion on this. Mr Grashoff and his colleagues joined in promising international initiatives. It is a pity, however, that you are stuck with the themes and indicators of these initiatives, while you might want to add something to them yourself. Mr Verhoeven wanted to add the theme of innovation. I wholeheartedly agree that it deserves a place on the dashboard. I myself miss the theme of freedom. What good is a country where you can't say what you want or not have the freedom to be openly gay? I wouldn't want to live there, no matter how rich that country is. It's too bad you won't be able to get rid of all the themes. I share the report's conclusion that gross domestic product is not sufficiently useful for broad prosperity, but I also share the conclusion that GDP is a robust indicator and the best available alternative to determining prosperity, while at the same time being very comparable internationally. I am glad that we have this indicator, because it says something about the size of the economy and employment, but it also affects tax revenues that allow us to do a lot of useful and beautiful things. So GDP remains absolutely important in addition to each dashboard or monitor. Finally, I come to the letter of the Chamber. It is good to hear through the Minister that the CBS is willing and able to meet the wishes of the Chamber. We can be proud in the Netherlands of the quality of the CBS and the planning agencies. I'm sure a good product will come out of that. The CBS underlines in the letter of the Parliament that progress towards a monitor of broad prosperity is a growth model. I wholeheartedly endorse that. Especially in view of the international dynamics discussed, it seems to me the right approach to choose a growth model. In the letter of the Chamber, the cabinet also asks to be able to evaluate the annual frequency after three years. Unlike D66's colleague, I do not think it is too early to evaluate anything for three years. That is why it seems very sensible to me to do so. Given the quality of the CBS, I think we should be careful not to micromanage, for example in the field of visualization of the dashboard. Leave that to the experts. Let's not just investigate and talk about how to do it, but let's just do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u47	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I have found that the Minister can reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u48	Mr. Chairman. As some spokesmen have done, I would first like to say that it is very good that the House has taken this issue up. The Chamber did so by means of a committee in which a number of political groups were represented, led by Mr Grashoff. In addition to the thanks already expressed by the spokesmen to the committee and its chairman, Mr Grashoff, it would be very sensible if I also expressed that thanks on behalf of the cabinet. The cabinet appreciates the work done. It has become a clear report with well-founded recommendations. The cabinet agrees with both the analysis and the recommendations. That is why I have already expressed my appreciation for the report in my written response. I would like to do that again and confirm that the cabinet will gladly implement the recommendations of the report because it thinks these are improvements. The committee has looked at what was currently going on with the gross domestic product as an indicator widely used and at the possibilities of putting it in a broader context. Mrs Van Veldhoven, who has since left the Chamber, said it very nicely: gross domestic product is placed in a wider range of indicators. That's exactly how it is. Gross domestic product remains important as an indicator because it is a robust indicator used in the Netherlands, but also internationally, using the same numerical approaches over and over again to achieve that gross domestic product. International agreements have been made on this. This means that it is very similar between countries. There is also a lot of up-to-date data available. As a result, you can compare it not only with other countries, but also with the past. In addition, the economic theory and models that have been developed make it possible to calculate the impact of many policies on gross domestic product. It's useful to hold on to that. That's not all. Apart from gross domestic product, there are a lot of other things that are also important and which cannot be translated directly economically, but which are equally or perhaps even more important in parts. Moreover, it's about the effect of what you do in the light of the future. Furthermore, it's about the effect of what you do on other parts of the world. If you get something done in a part of the world, but that has negative effects in other parts of the world, it is at least necessary to be able to face it. None of this can be done with gross domestic product. It has therefore been said that a broader concept of prosperity should be considered. Purely theoretical, you could use the term "wealth." After all, the concept of prosperity in itself is useful. All that provides for the satisfaction of people, insofar as scarce resources are used, is prosperity. You could use that. However, in order to make it clear that it is more than just the financial and economic dimension, it is not wrong at all to add the concept of a "broader" to that, as the committee has done and the cabinet takes over. As far as the cabinet is concerned, we are now discussing the broad concept of prosperity. The committee has indicated how you should do that. There are two schools. One school does what the committee does. The committee says you need a wide range of indicators. The other school is that of Utrecht University and Rabobank, which is involved. It says you have to process it in one indicator as much as possible. I agree with the committee. The committee says that if you have a wide range of indicators, it is possible for the different political groups to make their own assessment. A group can then indicate: this indicator indicates that, but we think that the other indicator is more important; and on the basis of the indicators that we consider important, we come to a final conclusion. I believe that this possibility should be available to each of the political groups, to each of the political groups. I think you can very well facilitate making a political assessment and identifying political priorities. Then you need to collect a number of different indicators with the aim of allowing that political consideration and that political assessment. I think that the committee has made a good choice. It is therefore very sensible to take that further. I certainly appreciate the work done by Utrecht University with the involvement of Rabobank. That means, however, that there will be one indicator. So if you have one indicator, you have to weigh at some point all the different partial indicators you start with. One weighs your sister and the other weighs you like that. In the end, there's one indicator you're going to use. However, weighing these indicators is precisely something that must be done politically. So I think it would be much better not to do that for politics, but to enable politics itself to do so. Besides, it may be that some things are getting better and other things are getting worse. If you have one indicator, it's a little bit the same in the end. Then you can also not compare it well with the previous year and see what relevant developments you would like to respond to. If you have these different indicators and picture all the different developments, you can judge them politically. I think that's better. I am pleased that Utrecht University has also been involved in this discussion. There's been an alternative in the picture. The committee finally made a choice. I totally agree with that choice. So I also intend to act in accordance with the choice made by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I also very much agree with the committee's recommendation to develop the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor into a monitor of broad prosperity, and to set it up for the Accountability debate. I think it's good to turn that somewhat irregularly appearing Monitor Sustainable Netherlands into a monitor that appears every year. It is also a good thing that this is a broader monitor, that we provide it with a cabinet response and that we send it to the Chamber in good time so that the Chamber can look at developments in terms of broad prosperity and what it considers to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u49	I'm glad the Cabinet embraces that recommendation. It should appear every year, contrary to what the cabinet wants, because I do not think it wants it every year. Can the Minister clarify that for a moment? My main question during this interruption concerns the recommendation of the Court of Auditors. It goes a little further than that of the Temporary Chambers Committee. The Court recommends that the monitor include broad prosperity and the Sustainable Development Goals in the State's Annual Financial Report. Is the cabinet willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u50	I would have come to that, but if Mrs Thieme wishes to answer that earlier, I would be happy to respond to that. She asks me again to say that it is going to happen every year. I do believe that this should be done, and so it is going to happen every year. I talked it over with the CBS. So I give the room that monitor every year. The Chamber also receives a cabinet response. All this comes in time, so that it can be used in the Accountability debate. I come to Mrs Thieme's question about the financial report of the Empire. It's wise to keep things separate. We have a budget and a Millions note. They're about the future. We have a responsibility debate. In doing so, we look at what the developments have been and what we think of them. This monitor was created by the CBS to look back. The CBS collects data and looks back, preferably with the most up-to-date data possible. The CBS therefore looks at what has happened and passes it on to the Chamber. The Chamber can then make a broader assessment and a broader assessment, partly on the basis of this document. It is wise to do this separately from the budget and the Millions note, looking to the future. Mrs Thieme asked to combine it with the annual financial report. I think this is unwise. That is where I depart from what the Court of Auditors has said. I think it would be very wise to put that other approach to the broad prosperity monitor alongside that annual financial report, so that you can assess both things separately. If you're gonna braid it together, I'm afraid one thing doesn't come out of the paint and the other one doesn't. Moreover, the annual financial report becomes more than what it is today, namely a financial annual report and a welfare monitor. I do not believe that we are making the case before the Court more transparent. Let us stick to that annual financial report, which is well structured and functioning. Let's put this next to it. The Chamber is going to work on this and we are going to work on it. In a number of years' time, we can see whether the choice we made at the time is going to work out well in practice and whether we should continue to do so. I believe it is best to have a separate annual financial report and a separate broad welfare monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u51	Does this not wrong what the Chamber is trying to do, namely to make an integral policy, not only looking at the financial figures, but also at the intangible parts? Then it would be a good idea to see that together or side by side in the Reich's Annual Financial Report. I do not yet fully understand why the Minister deviates from the analysis of the General Court. At what point does he think the Court of Auditors is making a wrong analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u52	That is in the final assessment of the final product. The Reich's Annual Financial Report does exactly what it says; all relevant financial figures for the last year of the Reich are listed, linked and presented to the Chamber. But there is more than what only financial data, such as gross domestic product, can provide. There are also many other things that are relevant to people's prosperity, well-being and well-being. That is what we are now going to show in this broad-welfare monitor by means of indicators. I think it is very sensible that the Chamber should have access to something extra every year, in addition to what it already has, with as current figures as possible and an assessment of the cabinet. She can use those different things that are presented to give an overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u53	What we then miss is the relationship between policy and its impact. These indicators cannot be properly linked to each other. If you do, by linking it to the annual financial report, we can charge the Cabinet a little more on, or be accountable about, the effects of the policy on intangible values such as the environment, animal welfare, social cohesion, security and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u54	Mrs Thieme's point is clear to me. As mild as she is entering this debate, I would like to continue with that. I think it's hard to get a good idea of the effects of the policy. I don't think you're gonna solve that through the annual financial report. I think that a broad prosperity monitor can make a significant contribution, with current figures and an appreciation of the cabinet every year. Then you already have some extras. That is not enough, I agree with Mrs Thieme, but I do not think that you can solve that with the annual financial report. I agree with the Court that this requires more specific research. In the Netherlands, too little is available for the Chamber to assess the impact of the policy. The Court of Auditors is actually saying that, apart from that broad monitor, additional additional research is needed, and I agree with that. Mr. Chairman. I have said that we can come up with this broad prosperity monitor every year. This is already being worked on by the Central Bureau of Statistics, in consultation with the planning agencies. It is very good that we are working together on this. We can deliver this to the Chamber in time, so that it can be used in the 2018 Accountability debate. In order to get the Chamber on the right track in this current year, I will make sure that a Monitor Sustainable Netherlands is available again, although that was not the original planning. It will not have the same shape as the monitor the Chamber has received so far. I will ensure that all the figures used for the monitor are presented to the Chamber, together with a statement of the figures and the trends and developments. The Chamber can therefore anticipate the new situation in the 2017 Accountability debate. She then has the latest version of the Sustainable Netherlands Monitor available and knows what the cabinet intends to do, so that a follow-up step can be taken from 2018. That might help if the Chamber were to hold the debate on responsibility later. So I will facilitate it as much as possible, but the form that the Chamber wants will be used for the first time in the 2018 Accountability debate. On several occasions, and now again, the Chamber has indicated that the most topical data is important. I very much agree with that. Now it comes occasionally for data coming from 2008 or 2009. It is important that the CBS, now that it is going to develop a monitor of broad prosperity, makes an extra effort to make available as current figures as possible. This way, the Chamber will be able to do its job well. CBS is working on that. In some cases it is not possible to get the most up-to-date figures available. There are techniques you can approach them with. The CBS has these techniques in mind and is in the process of developing them further. She wants to use it, too. It is very important, however, to operate as much as possible in an international context. It is important that we are aware of the effects on other parts of the world. Figures from other parts of the world must therefore also be comparable to our figures. We therefore have a major interest in international harmonisation. It is good that the CBS plays a leading role in this, that it stimulates this process and that it ensures that we get as far as possible with it. We must do two things for this international harmonization. The CBS must continue to do so and we must ensure that our own figures correspond as much as possible to the agreements made by various international institutions. It's important that this happens. The Netherlands must play its part as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u55	I have asked whether the cabinet sees a leading role in this respect. The minister says he thinks it's very important. It is precisely in connection with the Sustainable Development Goals that it is important to tackle this problem properly. Otherwise, countries will fight each other about achieving the world's goals because they will all give them different meanings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u56	That's very correct. I also think it is important to give special attention to the Sustainable Development Goals in the monitor every year. We have talked to the CBS about this point and are going to do so: every year a separate chapter on the Sustainable Development Goals will appear in the monitor. The Chamber can look at that and compare it. In the meantime, we are striving for as much coordination as possible with other countries. The Dutch Sustainable Development Goals for the year 2030 have not yet been established. This is a separate discussion which will be discussed during this summer. The Chamber will certainly discuss this with the acting cabinet. In any case, I believe that the Sustainable Development Goals for the Netherlands should be included in the monitor every year, in a way comparable to other countries. That is what will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u57	I am very pleased that the cabinet attaches the same importance to this as the CDA Group. What we would also like to see is for the Netherlands to play a leading role in this regard. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u58	Thanks to the active attitude of the Central Bureau of Statistics, we already have a leading role to play and we should be proud of that. There are a few countries in the world that do this kind of thing well, namely New Zealand, Sweden, the Netherlands and a few other countries. I think it would be very wise to continue with each other in that regard. Not because we would like to distinguish ourselves from other countries, but because we would like to join as many other countries as possible in order to reach the desired level internationally. That's the ambition we need. So I share that with Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u59	That's good to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u60	Furthermore, I believe that broad prosperity in the monitor should be given a separate chapter on distribution aspects. These aspects of distribution are important for broad prosperity. It's wonderful when you achieve things for the country as a whole, but it's also about whether those different forms of prosperity are distributed fairly and how that is experienced. It is therefore important to look at it separately every year. There is therefore a separate chapter on these aspects of distribution. I'm not gonna dictate to the CBS which aspects of distribution it needs to figure out. I think it's his job to do that. It has to consider for itself what is relevant in terms of the distribution of broad prosperity and the possibilities to visualise it. Then the CBS can provide it to us. Every year we are given the opportunity to assess this, to comment on it and to discuss possible changes. We can therefore discuss these indicators and have views on them. That is the second separate chapter that will be included in the monitor. As far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, I have already discussed the annual financial report and the link between policy and the impact of policies, as well as the great importance of harmonisation and more impact studies. I would then like to comment on the points raised by the various spokesmen. Mrs Thieme made a statement which I think she does not mean unkind, since she is never in favour of putting everyone on the same page. She said: accountants know the price of everything but nothing about the value. I don't think you can say that from accountants. I am convinced that there are also members of the Animal Party among them. I think everyone is doing their best in their own way to contribute to a good end result. We in the cabinet, those who are allowed to do a great deal of work for this purpose, must ensure that those who are required to provide the relevant information can do so as well as possible and at the right time, after which we provide that information with our own opinion and present it to the Chamber for assessment. I believe that the accountants, those who make the annual financial report, those who deal with gross domestic product and those who are working on the monitor can contribute to the situation that the Chamber has the information it wants to have so that it can have its own assessment and political consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u61	Here comes the percentage of accountants of the Party for Animals. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u62	With us we also have quite a few accountants, but they do indeed only follow the figures they are given. I am glad that the Minister knows with me that in your capacity as an accountant you are mainly concerned with the figures and the books rather than with a valuation or an interpretation of all that is of value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u63	Yes. Mrs Thieme said that what the accountants are doing in itself makes sense, but not enough, that more needs to be done. I wholeheartedly agree with her. Mrs Thieme said that the ecological deficit is high. She said: you can do all kinds of things in the Netherlands, but if you have things in order in your own country, but it is the cause that other parts of the world or future generations suffer from them, you are not doing well. That's true. The cabinet is convinced of that, too. That is why the cabinet believes that it is necessary to reduce the ecological deficit. In this way, the use we make of primary raw materials must be drastically reduced. The government's ambition is to use 50% less primary raw materials by 2030. That's 13 years from now. Then 50% less primary raw materials must be used. We have discussed this widely with all kinds of stakeholders in different positions. We have been able to conclude a raw materials agreement which will enable us to pursue this goal together. I therefore agree with Mrs Thieme's underlying criticism, but we are working to find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u64	Mrs Thieme, you are not going to interfere with every statement made by the Minister in your direction, are you? That would be a little too much of a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u65	Then, of course, the question is: are the policies that the government intends to take to reduce the use of primary raw materials effective? The Chamber can't get a hold of that. If the indicators are released in advance, for example in the coalition agreement or the Millions Note, we can see what effect they will have. Then we can see whether we will indeed achieve the goals that the cabinet intends to achieve. One of the indicators is the ecological footprint. It is very important that we apply it to policy proposals, so that we can properly monitor the cabinet. Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u66	I am sure that the Chamber will establish a link between day of accountability and day of budgeting. It will examine what has been done in recent times, what effect that has had, what the ambitions for the future are and how they should be translated into concrete policies. The Chamber will undoubtedly do that. It is good to make the differences that exist no greater than they really are. In her contribution, Mrs Thieme expressed the concern she felt. It will be able to see that the cabinet is working with power and violence to make the transition to renewable energy. She will be aware that we are very motivated to make the transition to a circular economy and that we, in particular, have a very ambitious target for reducing the use of primary raw materials. These are all things that must be done; we are convinced of that. We would also very much like to see the effects of the latest figures. That is why there will be a wide-ranging welfare monitor, as requested by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. In this way it is possible for the Chamber to make the various connections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u67	We are used to having the CPB pass on all kinds of party programmes to find out what the government agreement means for the purchasing power and growth of gross domestic product. That is what we are doing before the budgetary procedure, so that we can properly assess the budget and review the policy afterwards. Now, in fact, the Minister says that we are still going to do so for the financial sector, but for objectives such as reducing raw materials use or environmental pollution, we do not want to have pre-calculations or indicators on whether the policy is effective or not. That's very strange, isn't it? Then why does it only have to happen afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u68	No, I'm not saying that. In the budget debate we are talking about gross domestic product and the financial and economic issues that are at issue, such as purchasing power development, employment and all the other issues that we deal with every year in the budgetary procedure, and which we all consider important for them to receive the attention of the cabinet. In addition, we want to follow the effect of what we do. I am not just talking about the impact on gross domestic product, economic and financial developments, purchasing power and employment. It is also about other matters, which I do not need to name because the committee has already done so. These are all matters that, as Mrs Thieme said, are equally relevant and should therefore also be involved in policy making. We're gonna keep everything that's already there. In addition, we ensure that there is a monitor wide prosperity. We have an extra element, so we can also place an extra emphasis on Mrs Thieme. She is given an instrument to do so. Perhaps it is also good to say to Mrs Klever that this is an instrument that enables the Chamber to do things, to assess things, to take a stand and to set priorities. For the room, it's just something extra. The Court may assess its value over the years. It can then consider whether further refinements and improvements are needed. Mrs Thieme spoke about the SDGs, the Sustainable Development Goals, and the additional research that the Court of Auditors believes should be carried out. That's what I've been doing. Mrs Thieme said that ultimately it's about using the monitor's data on broad prosperity not only to look back, but also, above all, to make policies. I have already dealt with this, but perhaps I have not said it clearly enough. Yeah, that's what it's about in the end. It's not about looking back. You also look back, and you do it because you want to do what is best for the future of the people in our country. I estimate that the Chamber will also use the monitor's wide-ranging prosperity for that purpose. At least the Cabinet will. We, too, need the monitor. We need this recent information so that we can better base our policies on that. I have taken up the opinion of the Court of Auditors. I have also dealt with the connection with the annual financial report. Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks, like myself, has spoken with appreciation to the committee. I totally agreed with that. She asked what the cabinet is going to do with the monitor. She also asked about the connection to the Millions Note. I've indicated that those are two things. One looks forward, the other looks backwards. The better and more recent you can look back, the better you can do the work forward; hence they are both relevant and important and can only benefit policy-making. Mrs. Voortman talked about the reconnaissance that the planning agencies are going to do. It has views on how these explorations should look. She wondered how the cabinet would like to deal with that. I haven't figured that out yet. It doesn't make any sense and it doesn't happen that the CBS and the planning agencies together have such a project and pull it together. That's what they're doing with each other right now. We're looking into how the explorations can look the best. We're talking about that. The intention is to start with it as soon as possible. The intention is to present the first explorations of the planning agencies already in 2018, which should fit in with the monitor's broad prosperity and strengthen the whole further. So I cannot go into detail on Mrs Voortman's questions yet, but I can say that it is developing at the moment and that we want to start it as soon as possible. As soon as conclusions for the approach have been drawn and as soon as the initial results are available, Mrs Voortman can assess them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u69	I thank the Minister for his response. We did have questions about what that would look like. But I still find it interesting whether the Minister would like to inform us about what this further development is going to be like and when he could do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u70	I think that would be very useful. I don't know if that's gonna work before the accounting debate, but that would be nice. I'm gonna try that in the first place. Otherwise, it'll be as soon as possible after that. I suggest we do two things. The first is to indicate what the system is going to be with these explorations, how we want to set them up and how we want to deal with them. The second is to indicate what will probably be the first explorations with which we will be coming in 2018. I would like to say to Mrs Voortman through you, Mr President, that I am going to try to get that to the Chamber for the debate on responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u71	I am very pleased with that letter which further informs us about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u72	Mrs Voortman also asked whether there were possibilities to use that monitor as a means of policy evaluation. I have already indicated, also to previous spokesmen, that it is difficult to assess the impact of policies, and that it is useful to do additional research on them. That is also because there are, of course, many external factors that influence it. When everyone votes for the right party in the elections, it will look very good again for the Netherlands. That is an external factor that I cannot yet take into account and whose influence cannot yet be taken into account. You also don't know in advance that the gas extraction in Groningen, which has taken place for decades, has at some point such effects in the area that it is necessary to quickly reduce that gas extraction in volume, which means that you have much less revenue and therefore a real negative effect on gross domestic product and on prosperity. You don't know that before. You do not know that there will be a referendum on the Brexit and that one of the big countries wants to leave the European Union. This also has major negative effects for the Netherlands, which exports to the United Kingdom for 10 billion or more a year, which really translates into our prosperity. You don't know that before. There are many exogenous factors that affect the final results of all the policies we conduct. Anyway, those exogenous factors are there and they stay there. We can try to do it all as well as possible. That monitor will help with that. Additional research, which has been mentioned by the Court of Auditors and which I have said is sensible, can certainly contribute to this. Mrs Voortman also spoke about the annual financial report, and I spoke about it. Mrs Mulder wondered how future developments could be portrayed. In the monitor broad prosperity will be looked at in different forms how future prosperity can be defined. It involves different forms of capital that you can distinguish. You have economic capital, you have social capital, you have natural capital and you have human capital. For all these different types of capital, we are going to develop indicators to ensure that we get a picture of what is going to happen on that point. We also want a picture as recent as possible. This means that you have data available on the basis of as recent developments and trends as possible, so that you can then benefit from the policy for the future. Mrs Mulder understood that the cabinet had some hesitation in adopting some of the committee's recommendations. That's not true. We believe that both the analysis and the committee's recommendations deserve to be endorsed and implemented by the cabinet. That is what we intend to do. I do not wish to show any restraint to the Chamber on that point. I have already indicated, and I say this to Mrs Mulder once again, that I think it is important that the international comparison is optimal. It is also important for us to be able to play the leading role, which Mrs Mulder considers important. In doing so, we must also ensure that we all apply the standards that already exist, and that which has already emerged from the harmonization, so that we also contribute to this international comparability. We will pay great attention to this, because I think that international comparability is very important, precisely for that broad concept of prosperity. Mrs Vermue of the Labour Party has asked about the financial commitment that must be made to the Central Statistical Office in order to do this extra work. Mrs Klever also said: one time you're going to cut back and the other time they're going to get extra money. Government-wide cuts have been made to make sure that we get things back in order in the government. As a result, and with a lot of other measures taken by the cabinet, we wanted to ensure that, from a situation of 1% shrinking, we would go back to growth, towards more purchasing power for the people, more jobs and less unemployed. It's all worked out. We've gone from minus 1% to where we are now, above 2% plus. There's been a big change in four years. We now have 140,000 jobs a year coming up. We are expected to grow to 1 million vacancies this year. The number of unemployed is declining more rapidly than in ten years. Purchasing power increased on average between 2% and 3% last year. These are all results that have been achieved partly by the fact that public finances have been put in order, and all parts of the government have contributed to this, including the Central Statistical Office. Something extra is being requested for the CBS. It will be compensated for both the introduction costs and the structural costs to be incurred for the monitor. This means that an additional sum of about 2 million will be made available, slightly more, for implementation over three years. There is an additional amount of between €250,000 and €300,000 per year for structural costs. The Central Bureau of Statistics already made costs for the old monitor, and that money remains in use for the new monitor. In this way, we were able to settle the matter financially with the CBS. I have already mentioned what Mrs Vermue said about the publication of Mr Stegeman from Utrecht University and the Rabobank. It also referred to the discount rate. You can look at that in different ways. Now a standard discount rate of 3% is assumed, but it is not applied to everything. In particular, in areas where 3% is not real, a different percentage is used, for example for nature. For nature which is not replaceable, a discount rate of 1% shall be applied. I think taking 3% as a starting point and then specifying where that is appropriate is a sensible way of doing things. That is why I believe that the system that has come out of this can be defended. I'm just checking to see if any of Mrs Vermue's questions have remained. I do not think that is the case. Mrs Klever spoke about the reality of The Hague, which would be different from what the citizens experience. If I talk about an economic contraction of 1% and that there will be economic growth again, you can ask: what does the citizen have to say? Then I say that as a result there is now more exports. Yeah, but what good is that gonna do the citizen? Then I say: as a result, there are more jobs, more vacancies and fewer unemployed. So you're gonna get really close to that burger. The policy has to be macro-created, but eventually it all works on to the individual people. People who have more to spend, who can find a job, for which there are vacancies. That is what we all do it for in the end. In this way, what we are doing here in The Hague is in line with what the citizens experience. It also depends, of course, on how we explain it ourselves. You can do that in different ways. Mrs. Klever does it her way and I do it my way. Mrs Klever said that she thinks that gross domestic product is the best to use, because it can be measured objectively. I think it is also possible to work with the broad concept of prosperity. If you look for good indicators for that, collect data and make them insightful, link them up and explain them, then you can also produce objective information. In this way you have both the objective information about gross domestic product and the objective information about the broad prosperity. Mrs Gesthuizen asked which aspects of inequality were addressed. I have dealt with this before in my introduction. I said at the time that this would be a separate chapter and that the Central Statistical Office would consider which indicators could best be used for this purpose. Then we will work on this in practice and see how we assess it. I went into her question as to whether the figures could be made more up-to-date. I also discussed the valuable contribution that has been made by Utrecht University in terms of co-thinking. Mrs Van Veldhoven also raised the issue of inequality. She wants the annual cabinet response. She not only wants to get the monitor, she said, but also the cabinet response. She's gonna get it. Every year that cabinet response is added. As I have already said, we shall do so in good time. Mrs Van Veldhoven also attended Utrecht University. That's what I did. Mr Geselschap indicated that the report comes with structural solutions, but that we should finally have a cultural change. I think Mr Geselschap is quite right about that. That's right. But if you want to get a cultural change done, you have to do things for it. You can not only call for 'other culture', and then there will be another culture; neither does Mr Geselschap, but I say this in a general sense. You need to talk to each other about why this other culture is important. Then you talk about what is needed: the committee's analysis. Then you look at how you could shape what is needed: the recommendations of the committee. Then we're gonna work with that. By working constructively with it and making good use of it, we can achieve what is ultimately at stake, the cultural change. Mr Geselschap also spoke about the need to look more closely at the effects. I have gone into that a number of times. I agree with him that this is important. I also agree with the positive comment he made on gross domestic product. I believe that this is of lasting significance, and we will continue to do so. I also agree that the development that is now taking place is a growth model, as Mr Geselschap has said. We had a monitor that came in irregularly. We now have an annual monitor. It is being widened and involves several parties. It looks at other parts of the world. The future is being looked at. It is also ensured that it is internationally harmonised. We have thought this through, thanks to the preparatory work done by the Chamber. The Cabinet is going to do that now. So that is indeed, as Mr Geselschap said, a growth model. Mr President, I hope that I have taken up the Chamber's contribution in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u73	It is up to Members to decide whether it is appropriate, but you have been extremely detailed and precise in your reply, as we are used to. I'll take a look around to see if there's a need for a second term. I note that this is the case. Is there a need for a suspension prior to the second deadline? There isn't one. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Thieme, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u74	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his answers and for his willingness to shape the recommendations of our Committee on the Rules of Procedure into cabinet policy. The first steps have been taken. I'm very happy about that. We realize that it is really a turnaround in the whole way that we are going to test government policy and how we are going to monitor it. We're gonna take a broader look at this. I'm happy about that. There are still many steps to be taken. I have a few motions. I spoke about the General Court of Auditors and the recommendations made by the Court of Auditors. That's what the next motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the General Court indicates that the inclusion of themes from the monitor enhances the accountability, enhances the understanding of the impact of the deployment of public funds and thus supports the parliamentary debate on the social impacts of cabinet policy as part of the annual accountability in the Financial Report Reich;]] [[calls on the Government to complement the Financial Report Empire with themes from the monitor wide prosperity and the Sustainable Development Goals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court concludes that the negative economic and social impacts (if any) of austerity and burden increases are limited in scope;]] [[calls on the Government, following the recommendation of the General Court, to include social impacts in the transfer and decision-making of the government agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Gesthuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u75	I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the gross domestic product is too limited a basis to measure the level of prosperity and well-being;]] [[Whereas expressing our concerns, desires and developments in purely monetary terms would be too one-sided an economic perspective in which criteria such as happiness, sustainability, viability and sustainability are not or are not sufficiently reflected;]] [[calls on the government, in the Millions Note and in the budgets, to reflect the expected impact of the policies to be implemented on these welfare indicators and to reflect them in the annual reports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u76	I asked the Minister in the first place for an appreciation of the Wassenberg and Others motion. in piece No. 10, which states that the Cabinet should be asked to pay structural attention to the intangible components of prosperity and well-being in a broad sense in the cabinet policy and to report annually on them in an annex to the Millions Note. I take it the Minister is prepared to do so. That's what I like to hear in second term. The motion was from Wassenberg, Thieme, Voortman, Gesthuizen and Bruins. So it had already been filed and arrested.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u77	Yeah, but if you give that secretly to the minister, it'll save you a run. Then I can give the floor to Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u78	Mr. Chairman. We have noticed that there is broad agreement in the first term on the usefulness of a broad welfare monitor. GroenLinks is pleased with that. The Minister also showed himself to be very positive, as, of course, his letter showed. When I read the letter, I had a moment: oh, do I agree? That was about evaluating after three years. Evaluating is always good, but the letter suggested that after that evaluation the frequency of the broad welfare monitor could be reduced. We thought that was a little premature. We are reassured by the Prime Minister's first-term reaction that the monitor should come annually as far as he is concerned. We attach great importance to an annual broad-welfare monitor. That leaves me with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the temporary committee Breed Prosperity concept in its report and the Court of Auditors in its response to the report indicate that social impacts of policy changes are not or are not systematically collected and analysed;]] [[Whereas a wide range of information that could be used for this purpose will be collected for the benefit of the monitor;]] [[Whereas this will significantly improve the quality of policy and parliamentary control of policies;]] [[calls on the government, at the same time as developing the monitor, to carry out comprehensive wealth research on how to use its data for a systematic policy review,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voortman, Mr Vermue, Mr Gesthuizen and Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34298-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u79	Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'll do it very briefly from this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u80	No, we don't do that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u81	Thank you to the Minister for all the commitments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u82	Fine. I call Mrs Vermue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u83	Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments and the answers to the questions. Through the instruments already available to us through the Compatibility Act, we can now use the monitor to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our policies. At the beginning of the first term, I thanked the Cabinet for its response to the report. Let me at least conclude by thanking the committee for all its efforts to arrive at this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Klever has left us. Mrs Gesthuizen does not speak in second term. Mrs. Van Veldhoven has left us. Mr Geselschap has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u85	Mr. Chairman. One point the Minister mentioned was the cooperation between the CBS and the planning agencies. I have already praised the quality of the various bodies, but nothing human is strange to them: they often think their own ideas are the best. We must prevent ourselves from being put in a situation like the 2012 European Football Championships. Then we all had good players on the field but the cooperation was not good. This ultimately determines the final product and the actual quality of that monitor wide prosperity. I'm not filing a motion for this. I was at the bottom of the list of Members of Parliament as the least active Member of Parliament the other day: no written questions, no motions, nothing else. I wanted to keep it that way, because I do not believe that creating paper necessarily makes democracy stronger. That is why I hope that I can tempt the Minister to make a commitment that he will ensure good cooperation between these very good bodies, but sometimes also some selfish ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u86	That brings us to the end of the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u87	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the Thieme/Gesthuizen motion on part No. 18, in which they submit to the Chamber to supplement the Reich's annual financial report with themes from the monitor broad prosperity and the Sustainable Development Goals. I really don't think we should do that. It is good to maintain the annual financial report, which is a logical, coherent, finished product, and also to ensure broad prosperity in that monitor. I think that means that we have the material so that the Chamber can do its job properly. Of course, the Chamber itself assesses this, but my view is that it offers the best pre-work for the Chamber. If we broaden the Annual Financial Report in this way, we will bring in things that are not financial annual reports and that are already getting all the attention in that monitor. For that reason, I advise against this Thieme/Gesthuizen motion. In the Thieme/Gesthuizen motion to item No. 19 The government is asked, following the recommendation of the General Court, to include social impacts in the transfer and decision-making of the government agreement. I can't do that right now. We're gonna have to go there sometime. I would actually like to suggest to the authors that they should hold on to this motion, because we are now in the process of making these indicators, then completing them, providing them with comments from the cabinet and making them comparable with other countries. That's something new we're setting up. I think it is good to look at how this is developing and whether it is then possible at any time to include this in the assessment of what is going on in a government agreement. Perhaps it could be involved in what is being discussed at the information tables prior to the government agreement. It seems too early to me to make a statement on this now, when we do not know how this is developing and what its effects are. That is why I am proposing that the Thieme/Gesthuizen motion on item No. 19, until we have a better view of what is actually possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u88	I keep saying to you, Minister, that you should actually give an opinion on the content of the motion. Anyway, if the Chamber agrees, we'll do it that way. And if you've managed to seduce Mrs Thieme, we'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u89	That's a very exciting question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u90	On the motion, as you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u91	I'll hold her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u92	At the request of Mrs Thieme, I propose her motion (34298, No. 19). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u93	I shall now turn to the Thieme/Voortman motion in part No. 20. Who's laughing at me? Mrs. Mulder, I should have known.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u94	And so rightly so. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u95	Mrs Thieme and Mrs Voortman, in their motion, ask the government in the Millions Note and in the budgets to reflect the expected impact of the policies to be implemented on the welfare indicators and to reflect on them in the annual reports. Let's not do that. Let us maintain the system we have set up with the budgets. Let us maintain the Reich's Annual Financial Report and do nothing about gross domestic product, but put something next to it that is really meaningful. Let us try to develop it as much as possible, to bring it into its own right, and then to look at how we can make these connections. Of course, the government must serve the Chamber as regards the ability to establish links between the broad monitor, the Reich's Annual Financial Report, the Millions Note, the budgets and research that we need to do on the impact of policies. These links need to be established, but it is really too early to ask the government to reflect on them in the Millions' Note and budgets. After all, we still have to deliver and work with the first product of this broad-welfare monitor. That's why I advise against this motion. The same is true of the Wassenberg motion. (34298, No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It states that in government policy, structural attention should be paid to the intangible components of prosperity and well-being in the broad sense, and that they should be reported annually in an annex to the Millions Note. That is actually the same as putting Mrs Thieme and Mrs Voortman in their motion. For the same reason, I also advise against this motion. Mrs Voortman asked the government in her motion for a resolution on item No. 21 to examine, at the same time as the development of the monitor, broad prosperity in how its data can be used for a systematic policy review. I can't do that right now. We know that the policies you conduct and the effects that ultimately exist in society are very difficult to reconcile. That's because of all the exogenous factors. It is already very ambitious to introduce an annual monitor of broad prosperity, to give an annual cabinet response, to include a separate chapter on distribution issues and the Sustainable Development Goals, and to involve it annually in the Accountability debate. We are also going to do additional research in accordance with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors. I think that should be sufficient at the moment to see how we can get out of this and whether we can achieve what we want to achieve. I do not think it is a good idea to look again at how this can be used for a systematic evaluation of policies. We haven't had any experience yet, it hasn't been designed yet and it will only be available for the first time in 2018. I think this step is too early. I do not want to anticipate the question of whether that step should ever be taken. I do not want to make a negative statement on this either. At the moment, however, I think it is too early. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u96	I had the impression that the Minister and I found each other in the first term in the interest of policy evaluation. Hence this motion to investigate how the data can be used. We do not say: it must and it will. However, we ask that we examine how we could take a further step in the systematic evaluation. I have the impression that the Minister is reading the motion more harshly than she is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u97	There is no doubt that Mrs Voortman wants the motion to be slightly more than I said in the first term, otherwise she would not have tabled it. She is not going to table unnecessary motions, but she is going to tighten up this point. I believe that we are taking a major step, following a thorough analysis and concrete recommendations from the Chamber. We first had the gross domestic product and now we say that it is about the broad concept of prosperity. This is what we are going to do every year, as we have discussed. I think that we should take this big step, which we are going to implement for the first time in 2018, that we should gain experience and that we should carry out additional research in accordance with the recommendation of the Court of Auditors. I just don't think it's wise to take a further step. I think it is good now to take these steps and see what the results are. Then we can see how we can develop it further. I think it's too early to do that right now. For that reason, I advise against this motion. Mr Geselschap has said that he does not want to make a motion to say that it is necessary to ensure that the CBS and the planning agencies work closely together. Indeed, he does not have to make a motion because I will do as he wishes. I think this is useful. It is not the case that the CBS and the planning agencies, which have their own task and perspective, automatically cooperate with each other. That's what's happening in this project now. It is also very good that they do. They're all doing a good job of that, and that's important to the cabinet. It is therefore also important to make sure that the discussions between the planning agencies and the Central Statistical Office take place and that we can play a constructive role in this, so that Mr Geselschap will have the active attitude he asks of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-23.u98	That brings us to the end of the second term. I would like to thank the Minister for his contribution. I propose that we vote next Tuesday.
