ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of Finance. I shall begin with the first speaker of this debate. That is Mrs Leijten from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u2	Money is earned by people who work hard, but with the ownership of a company as a shareholder, as a debt holder, as a holder of bonds or as a owner of money through the currency market, you can also earn money. The markets on which this happens, the stock markets, we call the financial market. Equity trading is not without risk to the real economy. Everyone knows that the collapse of the stock market in 1992 led to a global recession and the Internet bubble of World Online have most of us still... Mr President, there is a lot going on here for me, but I will try not to be distracted. The World Online Internet Bubble can also be remembered by many. Less known, this certainly does not apply to financial spokesmen, the 2010 flash crash. Then we saw the first effects of automated trading in shares, currencies, bonds, financial products and so on. There will be no more human action, but whether or not it will make it better, we should ask ourselves. Today we see a titanic struggle between two groups of capital, which extends beyond the ancient opposition of labour and property. We are talking about financial flash capital versus industrial capital, with the first gaining ever-increasing power through structural reforms, which enables it to further reduce the sovereignty of the latter, industry, companies. The aim is to be able to impose more and more on how the business should be conducted and which branches you may or may not have to sell. If, at the end of the day, the account of these new forms of flash capital is presented to the real industry, then we see it in our society. Companies go bankrupt and people get fired. Thank you very much, flash capitalists. We have seen this at V&D, for example, and there are countless other examples that show us that the new financial products of flash capital put pressure on ordinary companies. We now see it with AkzoNobel and other companies that are under threat. These are ordinary companies in which people earn their money and in which investors earn their return. And now for the bill. This aims to repair the shortcomings of a previous European directive to protect investors, among others. That is why this directive is number two. The aim of the Directive is to regulate automated trade in financial instruments. This is necessary because, even ten years after the credit crisis, we are talking about a very unclear market which is hardly regulated and which is hardly contributing to the real growth of our economy. In fact, ten years ago, this kind of financial product suckled out our healthy companies, our real economy. This market of financial products, of which we hardly know what they are, but which does face real values and real risks, is growing every day. I have a general question. When we look at what is happening in the financial sector in terms of technology, it is questionable whether we are moving forward with this proposal for a directive because it may be a little too late. Is this directive not too weak for the risks of algorithm trading? Now I'm using a term I'd rather avoid. I prefer to speak in such a way that everyone understands. This is about automated trading via computer programs based on algorithms. In this way, shares are purchased and sold. That makes it very difficult to know exactly what you really have in your possession. You used to have stocks of Philips, which you might have been proud of, which is why you kept in the family. Now the shares flash across the world and computers determine what is the most profitable investment for you. But there are real values against that. Shouldn't we just regulate this kind of trade? The SP's answer is: sure, we should. Ten years after the credit crisis, we can only conclude that the financial products that were not good at the time and could not be properly understood because of the unclear risks should be excluded from the market but ultimately cannot be prevented. We often don't know what's wrong with these products and how they're put together. This directive does not dare to take the step either. For such an intervention, the Financial Markets Authority would need more power in the form of legal powers. This could better identify the effects of new products. As far as we are concerned, the quality of statutory audits needs to be raised. With this law, does the Minister have sovereignty over the control of what Europe actually decides in this directive? Can we say at national level that we do not really want to have certain products here? In order to avoid a next financial crisis, the financial sector must return to core tasks and eliminate many debts and certainly not deal with debt. We do not believe that the speed and automation of the financial markets will improve the situation. But we also know that this kind of trade did not spontaneously fall out of heaven. These kinds of products are always invented somewhere. That is why we propose to regulate this type of product, this type of use in the financial sector more than is currently the case under this directive. As far as we are concerned, there is a levy on high-frequency capital flows, also known as flash capital, to counter the destabilising effects of these transactions. It has also been discussed in Europe before. It was mainly stranded then, because the question of where the flash load would end up could not be answered. As far as we are concerned, it makes sense: where the transaction is done, the tax is paid. This does not have to be done at European level. Is the Minister prepared to work on this? The directive shows that Europe wants to achieve more trade in regulated exchanges and multilateral facilities. Fine, but what exactly does that mean? For the trade in derivatives it is proposed to establish a new platform, the organized trading facility. But what exactly is that? Today, everything is called platform. The holder of a regulated market, a market operator, may also operate a financial vehicle. In addition to being a market operator, he is also an investment firm. We would like it to be more transparent in the financial world, but if you run into this kind of jargon, it will be difficult. What does this even say? We want trade to be more transparent, but in this case we say that trade takes place on a platform and that that platform then also controls what is driven by trade on that platform. It makes the products, it markets the products and it controls the products: a butcher who approves his own meat. Did we learn this from the financial crisis? I've already talked about the risks. We would like to see such platforms not created, but more controlled by authorities that already exist, in our case De Nederlandsche Bank, the Authority for the Financial Markets and if necessary at European level, the European Central Bank, so that you do not get some kind of institutionalisation of what you really want to combat and thereby get a legitimization of products that you actually want not to create. But, yes, they emerge on a platform. That platform controls them, approves them and acts in them. It is therefore out of sight and has not become as transparent as we really wanted. In the case of normal trading on the stock exchange, all information on transactions, bids and offers shall be published directly and on a continuous basis. That's all complicated, especially for people who don't do anything about it, but it can be seen. There are also so-called "dark pools." They use data that is not known. They make suggestions to buyers and sellers to act without those buyers and sellers knowing exactly what they are doing. This shall be published as succinctly as possible and as little as possible. That's what the word actually says: dark pools, dark pools. How are you supposed to translate that? "Black holes" maybe. Actually, someone's giving a job that has no idea what's on the other side of it, but it does happen a lot. It's used a lot, because apparently it's lucrative trade. The order is given in the dark. We do not know what the result is and yet large investors make great use of it. They can trade things there without aligning with the market. If the market is watching, it also has certain value-influence. Demand leads to an increase in value, demand loss leads to a decrease in value. I'd like us to do something about those dark pools. I do not see how this directive does anything about it. I ask the Minister exactly how he sees it. We are taking a positive approach to this directive in the sense that we will vote for it, but it is a little late for us and a little too little. We see that because of the Internet applications that are being made there is much more speed in the financial world, even in the flash capital world, than the legislation can actually keep pace. We see all kinds of things happening in dark pools. Or, well, we don't see what's happening in the dark pools, but we'd like to see that. We would like them to be more transparent. In fact, I would like to conclude that if we adopt this directive, the third directive will probably be before us. We need not less transparency and more technology, but more transparency and less technology, so as to make it clearer what is being traded, what is going on and what risks it has for our economy. I therefore have no choice but to put the final question to the Minister whether he agrees with me that his successor will still have to complete a proper agenda in order to curb the financial markets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u3	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then we shall continue with Mr Ronnes' contribution. He shall speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We're discussing a pretty technical bill today. For many people, MiFID II or the Implementation Directive will not say much. However, it is important legislation that lies ahead of us. We know from the recent past that our financial system can get into trouble if regulation is not adequate. The legislation has an impact on companies trading in products traded outside trading venues, i.e. directly between traders. I call currency trade and option trade. This sometimes involves many billions shooting from trader to trader. The CDA therefore welcomes the fact that we are introducing some transparency into the system in this area. Then there is a point that an average investor in the Netherlands can quickly deal with, even if only because there is a lot of advertising: binary options and derived products. In recent years, the CDA, together with the PvdA, has called for attention to be paid to these products. In our view, binary options are not so much investment products as gambling products in the investment market. The scope for the AFM to intervene was limited, because precisely under the current legislation, MiFID, a Dutch regulator did not have a leg to stand up as a provider of these gambling products already had a licence in another Member State. That fact in itself does not change with this legislation. However, there will be a new competence for the AFM: the product intervention competence. The AFM may thus prohibit products on certain grounds, including as an undertaking authorised to offer products in another Member State. This is a good development, but of course it raises the question of why the regulator in one country does approve something, while in another Member State the product is considered undesirable. Let us not forget that it is often regulators in countries such as Cyprus or Malta who seem to be much more flexible in dealing with supervision of the financial sector. What we are doing now with the new power for the national supervisory authority is repairing at the back, while you are actually trying to prevent suppliers of dubious products from getting on the ground in the EU. The question to the Minister is therefore what he is doing in front of this problem. In the Netherlands we can be a bit proud of our supervisors AFM and DNB. These are very professional organisations that are independent and expert supervisors. After all, we feel that things are not going so well in every Member State. This therefore ensures that in other Member States products, suppliers and their services entering the EU market that may not belong there. Repairing at the back is fine, but we think prevention at the front is better. Does the Minister agree with this? How does he see that this problem can be solved? Does he see any possibilities for this? In previous answers, the Minister said: "I will therefore develop, in the run-up to the new legal rules resulting from MiFID II together with the AFM, how such a ban should be implemented and for which (certain categories of) derived instruments advertising should not or should not be directed at consumers in the Netherlands. This measure should ensure that derived instruments falling within the scope of the prohibition should no longer be brought to the attention of consumers. This measure should ensure that derived instruments falling within the scope of the prohibition should no longer be brought to the attention of consumers." How's this going? The ban on advertising would be a first step which would protect consumers better. A further question concerns third country policy with regard to traders acting on their own account. In this legislation, the European Commission will decide whether the products of suppliers from non-Member States are similar or comparable to existing products in the EU. To this end, the Commission takes a so-called equivalence decision. Until such a decision is taken, Member States may lay down their own rules on such providers. Currently, companies from Switzerland, Australia and the United States are exempt from licensing. More stringent requirements apply to companies from other countries in the Netherlands. The neighbouring countries now seem to have a broader policy for companies from non-member countries. These companies are not subject to authorisation but simply have to comply with existing legislation in the area of, for example, equity trading. Businesses simply comply with national legislation but do not have to go through a burdensome licensing process. This could lead to companies seeking refuge outside the Netherlands for a certain period of time, as long as the equivalence decision has not yet been taken. Does the Minister recognise this problem and is the Minister prepared to reconsider its consequences and, if necessary, to adjust policy? I come to the final point. Yesterday we received the second letter of amendment. This included the percentage cost allocation in the legislative proposal. It is clear from the explanatory statement that the amounts involved are substantial. Why is this amendment introduced at such a late date? Furthermore, I have the question of whether the distribution has been consulted with the parties concerned. To what extent have assumptions made for the distribution been assessed in the relevant future cost carriers? So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u5	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes has just pointed it out: we are dealing with a rather technical and complex matter today. But that's why it's no less important. The law deals with the implementation of the Markets for Financial Instruments Directive. It regulates investment services, investment activities of investment firms and sets rules for the operation of trading venues on which financial instruments are traded. There was a directive earlier, from 2007. It has increased competition and choice as well as increased innovation, as well as improved investor protection and decreasing transaction costs. That is, of course, a good development. The aim of MiFID II is to make European financial markets more efficient and transparent and to increase investor protection. The VVD also supports those goals. Investors must be well informed in order to make a better decision. The VVD is therefore also in favour of greater transparency. Of course, investor protection is also needed, but let it be clear that investors do have their own responsibility. The VVD has already pointed out on other issues in the financial sector that we consider it important that legislation and regulations provide more competition, new entrants, innovation and lower costs, but also space for SMEs. According to the Minister, does the regulations also provide sufficient room for this? The sector continues to innovate, develop new products and use new technology, such as the use of algorithms and flash trading. These developments are going very fast. That creates new risks and other risks. The legislator is often behind the facts and is in the process of winning the previous war. How long will the current regulations remain up-to-date? I think the SP just reported it, too. Has it been taken into account to formulate the regulation as technically neutral as possible, or is it due to technological innovation that we will be dealing with MiFID III in a few years' time? Do the regulators and supervisors have enough knowledge and expertise to keep up with all this? I come to the point of proportionality. The VVD has been committed to regulatory proportionality for some time now. Too often the requirements for large, complex and risky companies are imposed on smaller companies. This distinction is also important in these laws and regulations. The exemption regime under the Financial Supervision Act, the so-called national regime, is maintained, but the regulatory burden for financial advisors, for example, is already very high. That is why proportionality is also important here. It is still under consideration which MiFID II items should apply. How does the Minister deal with proportionality for smaller companies? What will and will not be regulated in the national regime? How does this also take place with industry? Furthermore, at the end of 2015, the European Banking Authority published a report recommending that the prudential requirements of the Capital Requirements Regulation are appropriate for some of the systemically relevant and banking investment firms, but that for the rest a less complex prudential framework would be better. This is also about proportionality. How does the Minister view that? What's going to be done with that advice? How was it dealt with in Europe? Then I come to the maximisation of the administrative function, which is also included in the proposal. For investment firms that are significant, the number of executive and non-performing administrative positions shall be limited to the members of the Board. A driver must, of course, be able to devote enough time to fulfilling the role of driver. The VVD does consider it important to clarify what is actually meant in the regulation, because it is unclear what a significant investment firm is. This determines the AFM on the basis of size, internal organisation and the nature, scope and complexity of the activities. When will this be clarified? Does the Minister consider that significant investment firms should be a company which is a high financial risk to the financial system? How is it also completed in other countries? Furthermore, it is unclear what the geographical demarcation is, because is that rule now applicable to the European Union or to the whole world? It is also unclear whether this rule only applies to institutions under the MiFID II regime. How should this limitation of the number of administrative positions be seen in relation to the Act on Governance and Supervision already in force in the Netherlands? So I'd like more clarity from the Minister. The CDA has already mentioned the authorisation for third countries. Third country operators outside the EU may operate alongside the MiFID licence in the EU on the basis of an exemption. The Netherlands wants to continue the existing policy for third countries. This means that investment firms from the United States, Australia and Switzerland are exempted. How do other countries deal with this? Is it true that Germany, the United Kingdom, Spain and France will pursue a much wider third country policy? And how do these countries fill that out? What impact could this have, for example on the level playing field? What impact does it have on the Dutch locational environment, the economy and the capital market? What impact does it have on investors and pension funds in the Netherlands? The VVD believes that we should join our neighbouring and competitive countries on this issue. Is the Minister prepared to do so? And what would be against it anyway? What consultations have been held with the parties concerned? How is the policy going to be defined? How are the sectors involved? How is the House of Representatives involved? The ban on commissioning is again slightly different from the Dutch ban on commissioning, as we have previously introduced in the Netherlands for investment firms. Is this gonna cause any problems? And what consequences does this have? Then we have received a first letter of amendment. As far as the VVD is concerned, there are some good adjustments. One thing is not clear to us, because it is stipulated that individual asset management requires the investment firm to provide periodically an updated statement of suitability to the retail investor. This is, of course, a good development, but what is meant by 'periodic'? The second letter of amendment has just been mentioned. It's about supervision costs. We would like to know the basis of the recalculation of the cost allocation and how this calculation was made. We also want to know what costs have been increased, what sectors have been affected, whether this is proportionate to the Minister, and whether consultations have also taken place with the sector. My final point concerns implementation. I think there is still a lot to be done before implementation. We wonder whether all this is feasible and realistic for the implementation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u6	I see two people walking forward for an interruption. First, Mr Van Dijck of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u7	I believe that Mrs De Vries made a mistake by saying that the national regime for Switzerland, the United States and Australia remains in place. Because that's not the case. Anyone wishing to offer services in the Netherlands from a third country is obliged to open a branch in the Netherlands, provided that those services are offered to a non-professional investor. The question to Mrs De Vries is whether she agrees that this national head is maintained, because that is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u8	I'm just looking for an answer to that question, because I have the feeling that the PVV is confusing a number of things. On the one hand, we are talking about the licensing requirement for third countries, which can be exempted from. It's about the U.S., Australia and Switzerland. The branches are another story, for which I believe a solution was found in the first letter of amendment. I think it is a good development that this change has taken place, but I have the impression that some things are mixed up with Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u9	That first letter of amendment clearly states that the obligation to branch no longer applies to third country investment firms offering services to professionals. There's only one contact there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u10	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u11	The other national head, for the branch obligation for providers of services to non-professional investors, remains. We are familiar with the VVD and we have supported and adopted many motions on this issue as a party allergic to national headlines. This means that we are shooting in our own feet and we are destroying the level playing field and thus also the competitiveness of the Netherlands. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me? I have an amendment on this in preparation for us to remove the national head of the branch obligation for investment firms offering services to non-professional investors from this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u12	I think there is still a difference between professional and non-professional investors. Of course, I always want to look at an amendment tabled by a colleague, but I do think that we should go for a form of protection for non-professional investors. And I wonder what the Minister has to say about what it would mean for supervision and for investor protection as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u13	But you're worried about other countries. Well, those other countries have a much broader understanding when it comes to those branches. And the Netherlands comes again with a national headline, the so-called 'gold-plating', while the VVD has always been a pioneer in eliminating national headlines from European legislation. So I take it you are very positive about my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u14	I always look positively at initiatives taken by colleagues, unless it is already very clear in advance that they are nonsense. I am curious about the Minister's response to this and the impact it has on investor protection. I think this is an important point, also because it concerns non-professional investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u15	Thank you. Then Mrs Leijten of the SP has another interruption for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u16	I'm still looking for what's really important for the VVD. On the one hand, it supports this directive because of investor protection. On the other hand, she feels that it should remain proportionate. But what exactly does she mean by "proportional"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u17	In this case, I think it is important that we look at which investment firms and which platforms are important for financial stability. For example, a small investment firm should not be a problem at all for financial stability. That's what I mean by "property." It is about the risks to the financial system that are in the companies. That is why, to a large extent, we have all adopted this regulation. That's what you said yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u18	Of course, I have also tried to bridge the gap to the lives of ordinary people, because if capital is flashing and it goes wrong, it has to do with what we all have, can divide and own. That's why I'm so looking for proportionality. I also know the VVD as a party that says: I do not want there to be too many rules for these people, who can move freely with capital, while the risks in the real economy are great. Isn't that the part of proportionality you're talking about? Are you talking about bureaucracy or that sort of thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u19	It's about unnecessary rules for us. If there are risks that could cause the financial system problems, for example, then you should definitely look at them. But there is now also an exemption decision with a national regime. I did not get the impression that there are now the major financial risks. I also think that they should be able to continue to operate in a good way. Then you're just talking about financial advisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u20	In my view, we are both wondering whether this directive can still handle the speed of the financial sector, all the new products that are being produced and the technology that can be used. We're both asking that question. But it is not quite clear to me where the proportionality lies. I'm worried when the VVD makes that kind of statement. When it comes to individual proportionality, it is clear that a person who has a benefit must apply twice or three times a month because otherwise he will lose his or her assistance. But when it comes to regulating the financial market, which is a risk to all of us, there should actually be as few rules as possible, because imagine that an additional form should be filled out or that a supervisor should have some extra power; that would not be good for our economy. Anyway, we will have this debate many times. I will ask in every debate where the proportionality lies for the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u21	In the past, the SP was also a party that let itself be a bit of an SME, but apparently that has disappeared with Mrs Gesthuizen's departure as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u22	Mrs Leijten would like to respond to that. Go ahead, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u23	I have asked Mrs De Vries twice what she meant by 'proportionality'. She didn't drop the word "mkb." It has not been able to give concrete examples. It's a political trick to give a bouncer like that. That is useful, but she will see that the new fraction of the SP still feels as much warmth for small and medium-sized enterprises as before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u24	It's been noted. Or do you still want to respond, Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u25	Finally, I would like to say that please also look at the proportionality of regulation, especially for SMEs. I did mention SMEs in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u26	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. Mr Van Dijck has the floor. He shall speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u27	Thank you, Mr President. It has already been mentioned by previous speakers: what we are discussing here today is a bit complicated and technical. The aim of this bill is to make it all more efficient and transparent and to increase investor protection. That is what Brussels wants us to believe. In principle, no one would disagree with that either, but the PVV is worried and wondering if we are not going to go through with it. Don't we throw away the baby with the bathwater with this bill? I'd like to mention a few pain points. The first pain is the research. An investor used to have free access to all kinds of investment research, an inexhaustible source of information on which an investment decision could be based. The charges were encrypted in the transactions and as long as you didn't buy anything, you didn't pay anything. That was a good principle of access to research. Now we have to pay separately. Does this information become less accessible, I ask the Minister. If less use is made of it, there is less revenue and less budget, which ultimately reduces research. The cost of transparency ultimately gains from the degree of research. Is that the point? ING is considering offering the analyses free of charge. But if you're allowed to offer free research, I'll ask this minister. American investment banks want to charge very high amounts for research, so we could read today. We also wonder whether VAT should now be paid on research. It used to be a side-service, exempt from VAT. This improved the affordability of these investigations. How will the study be dealt with in the other Member States? With MiFID, costs may become more transparent, but at the same time research becomes scarcer and more expensive. That can't be the intention of investing, can it? Then the national headlines; I was already talking about it in an interruption. I thought we agreed with this house that we wouldn't have goldplates anymore. The Netherlands must get rid of the wish to always be the best boy in the class. We will shoot ourselves in our own footsteps if we start making national headlines on European regulations. So why oblige investment firms from non-EU countries to establish a branch in the Netherlands? It costs a lot of money and other countries don't either. The Netherlands is putting itself back on track because companies will stop offering these services in the Netherlands and then go to other Member States. Other Member States can do without a branch, but the Netherlands apparently cannot. I ask this Minister to explain this very carefully. Otherwise, I am considering an amendment, as I said. Then there's the investment advice. Each advice should be provided with a suitability report. That's a lot of work and it's also very difficult. We are therefore seeing a retreating movement on the advisory market. In 2011, 60% of the capital was still in advice, and in 2014 it was only 30%. On the other hand, execution only doubled from 20% to 40%. Investment firms flee from advice to management. Advice is no longer interesting: too risky and too labour-intensive. This law lays down additional requirements for the opinion "the appropriateness and suitability of the opinion "the whole of the opinion is at risk of disappearing." Sometimes the intention is to eliminate the advisory practice, I ask the Minister. ING has already stopped advising small customers, ABN AMRO builds up investment with advice and the Rabobank has completely stopped its share business. Where should these customers, especially SMEs, go in the future, I would ask Mrs De Vries. What also changes is that more products will soon be labeled as complex. These products shall not be offered without a knowledge and appropriateness test. So we will also see less and less of these products. Finally, there is the question of professional competence. New professional competence requirements will apply from 2018. This is not a problem for DSI registered investment specialists, but the question is how private bankers, financial advisors can prove that they are competent. Professional requirements will also apply to people who only provide information about investment: the so-called call centre employees. How are they gonna prove they're skilled? It is predicted that many professionals will be in trouble on January 3. How is the Minister going to prevent this? The question is what the world looks like after MiFID II. Is investing going to be something for the happy few, just for the professionals? Will there be any disruption of the offer? Will advisory services only become scarcer and more expensive? Do you get a flight from advice to management? Is investing for the masses not going to be too risky, too expensive and inaccessible? Is that sometimes the intention, I ask this Minister. Protecting the investor by preventing him from investing? If you don't invest, you won't risk it. That seems to be the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u28	Thank you very much, Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u29	Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u30	Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Van Dijck from the PVV. Mrs De Vries finds it all very funny! I'm looking at the minister. I understand he needs about 20 minutes to prepare his response, so I shall suspend the sitting until 5.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u31	Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing you used the abbreviation "MiFID" completely, because then I don't have to do it anymore. It's a big, complicated and technical package. I have already said to the President: if there are still very technical issues, we may be able to deal with them in writing. We have to do it carefully. After all, we are talking about legislation, although I think we are coming a long way. In fact, Mrs Leijten has made the subject even wider. She said that what lies here is broadly fine, but the problem is actually wider and farther and the next minister must have a full agenda to regulate much more. I'll say a few things about that. Yeah, it's true the technique is moving forward. You can also see that new markets and platforms have emerged in response to MiFID I. The financial sector is innovative, and so new products are constantly emerging. In general, therefore, Mrs Leijten is right that the legislator will have to keep looking at whether he is still touching the core and doing what he is trying to do. He wants to ensure market stability and, of course, protect non-professional, ordinary, small investors. This always requires approximation of legislation. Mrs Leijten also mentioned the concept of sovereignty and asked: does the Minister still have sovereignty? The answer to this is limited, because of course we are in a European system. The directives and regulations leave room for national interpretation in parts. I will come back to that in a moment, when I go into the subject of gold-plating, or national headlines. So there is still sovereignty and you can decide for yourself how to do it, but in many respects it is a single market and the rules apply to all countries. I think that's a good thing. To be honest, I am more concerned about the fact that you are getting supervisory competition, and that, despite striving for a level playing field, countries are still making the rules as flexible as possible to attract companies to them. This is a phenomenon that we are still seeing in this financial sector. That would be my greater concern: not so much whether there is sufficient sovereignty, but whether that sovereignty does not lead to a race to the bottom. I think we should stay alert on that. Mrs Leijten has specifically asked whether, for example, we are regulating enough in the area of algorithm trading. That's trade where algorithms are used. There is no dealing in algorithms, but you use algorithms to in a way automatically react and buy or sell very quickly. MiFID II, the second version of the regulation, contains a range of measures to mitigate those risks of using algorithms in trade. An investment firm using it should inform the trading venue on which it operates of the fact that it is engaged in algorithmic trading. If a market-making strategy is carried out by acting continuously as market-maker during a certain part of the trading time, it should be known. It should conclude an agreement with the trading venue which includes the rights and obligations relating to market making. It must ensure that it can fulfil that obligation. If high-frequency trading is used, the investment firm should keep the details of all its placed orders and make them available to the supervisor on request. For example, there are also requirements for the trading venue itself, i.e. where this type of trading takes place. The operator of the trading venue should ensure that the trading system has been properly tested to cope with large order flows or market tensions. The platform must be equipped with circuit breakers, commercial interrupters, in order to be able to intervene if things are not going well. It should also have systems, procedures and arrangements to oblige participants and members to test an algorithm. In this way, especially in MiFID II, very new laws and regulations are introduced to reduce the risks of this trade without unduly discouraging trade. Mrs Leijten then talked about the dark pools. These are less transparent ways of trading financial instruments. That's true. These laws and regulations introduce new platforms to attract and regulate this type of transaction as much as possible on that new platform, making it transparent and so on. This is to a large extent true of the trading of shares and derivatives, which must now be carried out on those trading venues under the new regulation. Another measure to introduce the trade in dark pools is the introduction of an OTF, a trading venue intended precisely for the trading of derivatives that is currently taking place outside transparency. Then there are still very specific contracts, tailor-made contracts, which are generally of little interest and therefore not very liquid. They will probably remain traded over-the-counter, i.e. OTC. That's allowed, too. Mrs Leijten asked critical questions about the different powers or roles of an operator of an OTF. He does indeed have discretion in placing, withdrawing or matching orders. In this way, the OTF operator may take into account an investor's wish not to include his order in a particular order flow, for example if orders from high-frequency traders are included. In exercising that discretion, the operator should always comply with its best execution obligation towards the customer. Mrs Leijten asked in what cases the operator of the OTF, the organised trade facility, may act with its own capital on its own trading platform. As mentioned above, the introduction of these organized trade facilities is precisely intended to bring the over-the-counter trade, the dark pools, into transparency. In order to make these OTFs attractive to market participants currently on over-the-counter platforms, the OTF does possess some features of over-the-counter trading. Therefore, the operator of the OTF, i.e. from the new platform, may in some cases derogate from the rule that orders from clients may not be executed with capital from the operator itself. For example, he may act on his platform on his own account in government bonds for which there is no liquid market. But those are really exceptions and there is also really prescribed which ones. On the issues raised by Mrs Leijten, therefore, we are taking important steps without making trade impossible, especially where there would be no alternatives. As far as proportionality is concerned, as has been said, the financial sector is very innovative. New products and new technology are constantly emerging. The sector is highly technology-driven. In my opinion, Mrs De Vries asked whether the legislation is not going behind the facts, because it is moving so fast. In a way, of course, that is true. Moreover, I am relaxed about this: I actually think that the legislator should always be behind the facts. Especially in the case of rapid technological developments, the legislator should not think that he can fully understand the technology in advance, even before.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I don't think that would be good. This knowledge must be available in the ministries, in Brussels and in the supervisory bodies. It can continue to understand what is happening... Yes, it is quite a challenge to always ask the question whether our legislation is still adequate. It is therefore inevitable that there is a delay factor in it. That may not be wrong either, but that delay should at least not take too long. This is, moreover, an issue that is important in many policy areas. On 6 July last year, Mr Kamp van EZ and Mr Blok van V and Mr J, I do not know if Stef Blok had already started at that time, but it was in any case also Mr van V and Mr J, who sent a broader letter to the Chamber on how to make legislative processes structurally future-proof and take account of new technologies without smothering them or regulating them directly from the government. This point therefore also has a broader focus. MiFID II also contains all kinds of review clauses, so that we can also keep our finger on the wrist and adjust it in the future. Mrs De Vries asks what is going to be regulated under the national regime, and what is not, how the Minister deals with proportionality, whether it is being consulted, whether it is being informed and so on. Under MiFID II, certain articles should be applied mutatis mutandis to persons who are exempt from the obligation to permit the provision of investment services, e.g. organisational requirements and rules of conduct. The starting point for drafting regulations, for example in the area of organisational requirements, is indeed proportionality. We therefore take into account the nature, scale and complexity of the company. In addition to carrying out the fitness test, this time it is not about the suitability test of the directors of financial undertakings, but about the suitability test of the investor.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It should include how the opinion meets the objective and the other characteristics. Think of the client's risk profile. That is, of course, an effort, but I think that is a sensible and justified effort. Information should be provided on the total cost of the financial instruments and the services provided and on the services provided themselves. If the financial service provider is also a distributor of the instruments, it must determine in advance the target group: who is this suitable for? And he has to make sure his strategy matches the target group. That seems to me to be just acting professionally as a financial service provider. The national regime is governed by the Wft exemption regime. The necessary changes will be consulted in November. Then industry and other stakeholders can respond to the regime we are proposing. We will, of course, also consult with market players. Then we'll inform the Chamber. I imagine that this will happen by the end of this year. On the issue of proportionality, Mrs De Vries asked for the EBA opinion at the end of 2015. This was about prudential requirements for investment firms. These demands could also be made more proportionate. An opinion had been requested by the European Commission. My information is that this opinion is expected at the end of September. Mrs De Vries already quoted what would be in it, but perhaps we are not talking about the same thing. It says here that the opinion is expected at the end of September. Then the European Commission will come forward with proposals on adapting the prudential requirement for investment firms. This may also happen before the end of the year. In itself, I support the line for more proportionate requirements for investment firms. We will also be committed to this. As far as I am concerned, a little in line with Mrs Leijten's questions to Mrs De Vries, that proportionality does not always mean lowering standards. Sometimes, for larger or more risky companies, you need to tighten up the standards, while perhaps you could lower the burden and requirements for smaller companies or SMEs. Proportionality must work both ways, otherwise we are just deregulating again to deregulate. So this will also come later this year. Then there are the third countries. Mrs De Vries, Mr Ronnes and Mr Van Dijck spoke about this. This concerns the equivalence decision taken by the European Commission with regard to third countries. This means that if the European Commission says that countries have a similar regime, then we all accept it and then certain requirements do not apply. We then accept the fact that they are regulated and supervised in those countries. This applies to the three countries mentioned: Australia, the USA and Switzerland. For other countries, a Member State may pursue its own national third country policy in relation to persons from that third country who wish to provide investment services or undertake investment activities in that Member State. Now the problem of competition is being raised. We must therefore take a critical look at the fact that other countries, in particular France and the United Kingdom, have a broader national third country policy than the Netherlands with regard to merchants from third countries on their own account. This means that we are simply at risk of these traders moving and settling in another country. That still does not help us, because they are not as strictly regulated as we would like them to be in the Netherlands. In that sense, our policy will not be effective. That is why, after consultation with the supervisors, we have decided to adapt our national third-country policies to better match those of France and the United Kingdom. We do that in the case of ministerial regulations, so there is no need for an amendment, I say to Mr Van Dijck. However, I very much hope that national financial market regulators, of course led by ESMA, will do a great deal in the coming years to create a level playing field. Because if countries are going to differ on many points, then you will have these kinds of discussions and then we will lose out on our own policies. In this case, we believe that this is justified, so in this case, we will align our policies with those of France and the United Kingdom. This means that persons from third countries who only trade with their own capital in the Netherlands, i.e. traders on their own account, and who do not have branches in other Member States, do not have to obtain permits under the Financial Supervision Act. Nor is there any continuous supervision of these persons in the Netherlands. All this will be settled by ministerial regulation. The concept of this adaptation will still be publicly consulted, so that market players will also have the opportunity to respond in terms of content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u32	I do not know the situation in Spain and France very well. The Minister now says: I am going to make sure that we are more in line with those countries by ministerial decision. Can the Minister tell us a little bit more about how these countries have arranged it? And does this apply to all third countries or to certain third countries? Or does he join the third countries that France has and will soon become the Dutch third countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u33	It is not so much a question of selecting third countries. These are a number of criteria which apply to third-country nationals, regardless of which third country they come from. These include, for example, persons acting exclusively for their own account in the Netherlands and who do not use a generic exception included in MiFID II, as they would already be exempt from it. These are third-country nationals on whom, of course, the European Commission has not taken a decision on equivalence. And these are third-country nationals who are acting with or through a licensed person. That is a criterion that applies. This also applies in the other countries. We don't have a choice. They are therefore also third-country nationals who do not have a branch in another Member State. This is very close, almost literally, to what the UK, for example, uses. If it isn't, the sector will scream.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u34	Okay. It therefore applies to all persons from all third countries who invest on their own account. But my amendment deals much more with the obligation to open a branch in the Netherlands if you offer services to non-professional investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u35	The obligation to open or hold a branch shall expire for persons from third countries acting on their own account in the Netherlands and for persons from third countries providing investment services to professional investors and eligible counterparties in the Netherlands. While we announce this change in consultation, we should also simply send a letter to the Chamber to explain what we are doing. I hope that the Chamber will then adopt it for notification and await it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u36	For Mr Van Dijck, this is the time to table an amendment. I will ask him what he thinks of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u37	My amendment concerns the provision of services to non-professional investors. This is also the case in this law. The change of law ensures that you can be satisfied with a contact person in the Netherlands if you offer services to the professional investor. For the provision of services to the retail investor from a third country, you are obliged to have a branch. There's even a whole calculation. Setting up a branch costs €50,000. Two males employed cost €12,500 per year in operational costs. I would just like to point out that the Minister does not want to eliminate this whole process, although I do mean it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u38	Aha. I don't have the amendment. Mr Van Dijck apparently says that the provision of services to retail investors should no longer be linked to the requirement of a branch in the Netherlands. That indeed goes beyond my purpose. Then we should, I think, do as follows. We need to know exactly what we're gonna do. In order to clarify what I am going to do, I will send a letter before the votes. Then he can decide whether he wants to put his amendment to the vote. In that letter, we will write out what it means. Mr Van Dijck's amendment goes even further and concerns people who offer investment services to retail investors from a third country. I say it so intriguingly because I hope he will think about it himself, because there are some types of people that you do not want to expose to ordinary small investors. I would like to have them under this branch obligation and therefore under continuous supervision of Dutch supervisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u39	Your proposal is, I think, all right. Mr Van Dijck has tabled his amendment and the Minister has sent a letter before the votes. Then it's clear what it's about. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u40	We put in our letter what my intention is and I will comment on the amendment. Hopefully we'll get to the same point. I come to governance. Mrs De Vries said that this is about the question of which administrative functions to combine with investment firms. It has specifically asked when a market operator is significant, because then there are stricter requirements. She also asked how this would be completed by other countries. MiFID II imposes stringent requirements on the management of market operators or investment firms, indeed linked to significance. That criterion is not new. The CRD IV also contains a similar provision for banks and investment firms. This is also why Mrs De Vries is asking for a little more detail on this significance criterion. Since CRD IV and MiFID II concern maximum harmonisation, the Netherlands has little policy space to implement this. Therefore, it has been decided to allow supervisors to determine where an entity is significant, taking into account the circumstances of that case, i.e. market operators for the investment firm. This does justice to the open nature of the standard. At the same time, someone who is considering or is about to take up such an administrative position will be interested to know whether it is significant and whether they can still do so. That is why I think it would be a good approach for the AFM to indicate, per company, whether it is considered to be a significant market participant or investment firm. For many companies that already know the AFM, it can also indicate that. In the case of new companies, the AFM will therefore have to be able to give an opinion on this. There are therefore no pre-established criteria, but the AFM must give an opinion on them per company. The AFM must be able to deliver that judgment quickly and when it is at issue. Otherwise, people won't know what they're up to. The supervisors align their approach with fellow supervisors. I was just talking about the consultation that is taking place between the AFMs of Europe in the framework of ESMA. We know from the United Kingdom that they have not at present given their own details of the criterion. So the United Kingdom also has no established criteria in terms of: this is significant and this is not. There too, it is left to the supervisor. The supervisory authorities should coordinate this as closely as possible. That seems to me to be a good approach. That signal was also sent to the AFM, if necessary. Mrs De Vries also asked about the geographical demarcation of the maximum number of administrative positions that a person may have in this type of enterprise. Is that EU or global? In other words, can you do other administrative functions in Asia? That, as I said, depends on the nature, scale and complexity. Let me see if anything else has been said about the region. I see a lot of lyrics, but all I'm looking for is: is that true for the EU region or international? And I don't see that in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u41	Maybe you can come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u42	I see a gesture. I've used that to say "round off" in the last few days, but in this context, I think it's being used as "worldwide." That's the answer. It's global. That also solves the question on this point. Now I have a number of points in the category 'other'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u43	One moment, Mr. Secretary. Mrs De Vries wants to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u44	Yes, because I have the impression that the Minister wants to move on to another point. I'm still curious when the AFM can give that clarity. People just want certainty: do I have to comply with these rules or with the Dutch Governance and Supervision Act? I also had a question about the MiFID II regime. Is it just the institutions that are covered by it? Then what is the relationship with the Administration and Supervision Act? Of course, we already have our own right in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u45	Yes. Let me ask you a question. The Governance and Supervision Act therefore does not apply to everything that is regulated under this regime. This is gonna replace it. So it is not so that you have to look at how many points are given administrative positions under one law and under the other law et cetera. No, the other one no longer applies to this; so only what we are dealing with here in the context of MiFID II. The second question was when the AFM will clarify this. Again, it really goes by market operator and by investment firm. There are no harsh criteria in advance that allow people to see for themselves. People who have questions about this can simply report to the AFM to hear specifically for that market operator or investment firm whether there is significantness and whether the stricter requirements apply. Mr Van Dijck asked whether information, such as investment advice and research, would become less accessible. MiFID regulates that investment firms will have to pay for research reports from 3 January 2018. I think that in itself is a very healthy principle. Then it is also transparent for which service you actually pay. Those research reports and the knowledge and information that comes from them are simply a service that is provided. There's a price on that, too. Will this mean that some types of research no longer take place? It could be. Maybe there'll be a shake-out of research that just isn't needed, that people just don't like. For other research, which has a very good reputation and which is considered very relevant by investment firms, one will also be prepared to pay. Now, of course, there is no selection, because the costs are simply increased over all investment services or products that are delivered. I think this is a better approach. Investors will pay for high-quality research reports. If it works this way, the quality of the investigations and reports delivered will also improve. You just get a selection on quality. The fear is that research aimed at small enterprises will decrease. After all, there is less trade in this and so there will be less demand for research reports, that is the idea. We don't know if this is actually going to happen. I think there will be more room for niche players: researchers who will focus on those smaller players. We'll keep an eye out for it. But I think the improvement in quality is a major gain. Mrs De Vries asked about the ban on commissions. Of course, in the Netherlands, we have a commission ban that applies to retail investors, retail customers. Since the market for professional investors is determined mainly internationally, the Dutch commission ban does not apply to the provision of services to professional investors. In addition, you can simply charge or link it to the product, to be precise. Thus, to advise and manage individual assets of professional investors is affiliated to MiFID II. In such a case, the investment firm shall fully pass on fees received to the professional investor. In my opinion, the Dutch ban on commissioning was introduced without major problems and with good support. Nor has it affected the competitive position of investment firms with their registered offices in the Netherlands. I am not aware of any noises that the commission ban we have in the Netherlands has caused problems for investment firms. Mrs De Vries also asked about the periodically updated declaration of suitability. This therefore concerns the suitability of specific non-professional investors. She asked what is meant by 'periodic'. It is established that this should be done at least annually. An investment firm managing individual assets of non-professional investors should annually assess whether the instruments are appropriate and appropriate to the customer, and in a statement of suitability to adjudicate them. I'm gonna come up with surveillance fees. We submitted a second letter of amendment yesterday. It looks at the distribution of the costs of supervision, following the system that we also have in other financial sectors for the distribution and allocation of supervisory costs. Today, both in consultation with the AFM and with industry associations, it has been found that there are many questions, and even criticisms. If you will allow me, I would like to use the next few days to discuss this further with the AFM and the industry associations to see if we have chosen the right approach. It may result in us withdrawing the second letter of amendment. I say "can" because I want to take a careful look at this. In any case, I have found that the care associated with this second letter of amendment was not optimal. Then I'll say it diplomatically. That's on us. That's why we're taking a step back. We will consult with the AFM and the industry associations and in the very short term let them know how we will proceed with that second letter of amendment. This is in response to the questions put by Mr Ronnes and Mrs De Vries. Finally. When should MiFID be implemented? Is that feasible? MiFID II had to be transposed into national law by 3 July of this year. The provisions implementing MiFID II should apply from 3 January 2018. So we did not achieve the implementation objective. This has to do with the large amount of technical points in MiFID II. Frankly, it also has to do with the very late published lower regulations from Brussels. This also calls for adjustments to our implementation texts. In addition to the bill, an AMvB is in preparation. It has already been consulted. We aim to send this to the Council of State at the end of December. There are still some ministerial arrangements that need to be adapted, such as the exemption regime, which I was just talking about. This has to do with the national regime and third country policy. We aim to consult them in November, so that everything can still enter into force on 3 January 2018. But it's quite a job. Mr Ronnes of the CDA, like the spokesman of the Labour Party and others, has previously called for attention to be paid to risky financial products. Some also just say it's gambling. This is happening, for example, from Malta and Cyprus. That's a real concern. It is very important that the same monitoring is carried out in the different Member States. ESMA shall also take initiatives to increase automated supervision of persons providing services in the field of high-risk products. Mr. Ronnes continues. He asked whether European legislation should not simply continue to be implemented in order to achieve prohibitions. That was Mr Ronnes' other question about a ban on advertising. The draft advertising ban, which prohibits advertising for binary options and contracts for difference, has now been consulted. The concept will be sent to the Council of State for advice in the very short term. So we're working on that as soon as possible. Mr President, I think I'm gonna stop here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u46	I see you have an interruption from Mrs Leijten of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u47	I'd like to come back to those dark pools. The Minister says that this directive, MiFID, solves this problem. However, we also read in Bloomberg, Mr Boschan, the boss of the Viennese stock exchange, says that large institutional investors can still simply trade these kinds of orders without being related to the market, because they use all kinds of services that make this possible. This directive is not a solution at all. Do they see this wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u48	Yeah, I think so. I really think that very specific products with a small market and little liquidity will continue to move in the over-the-counter trade, the dark pools. That is not transparent. However, the large bulk of trading in derivatives and shares is drawn into transparency by requiring them to be traded on these new platforms. I think it is a really big step forward and that small, specific, tailor-made contracts will continue to be traded, just directly, outside those transparent platforms. That's what we expect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u49	I find it complicated. I read what the boss of the Viennese scholarship said. He explains that the big institutional investors already use all kinds of platforms on which they do so. That's different from the situation of buyer-seller. Over-the-counter is a bit more out of stock markets anyway. However, they do lay down orders, as they could do on the stock exchange, but this is not a question of transparency and therefore not of coordination with the markets. I find it complicated, because the minister says MiFID is going to take care of it, but on Bloomberg you can read articles that say it isn't and the boss of the Viennese scholarship says it isn't. I would like to table a motion on this, but I am now a little bit in between. Will MiFID significantly reduce those dark pools?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u50	Yeah, we're sure of that. I do not know this particular interview, but I am prepared to respond in writing in the next few days. Then I can also look at the argument, because what type of trade does the person concerned have? I don't know the argument. We simply establish: what is being arranged here, how much is OTC now and how much is OTF going to be? We think that is substantial. Then there's a part of OTC left. Okay, there's an interview from a stockbroker who says there's a lot more going on. Then I really need the lyrics. Then I will respond in writing. Then the Chamber just gets a few more letters or a letter from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u51	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u52	I will see to it that these two articles reach the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u53	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u54	...but I actually had the idea that they would be known. I appreciate there's gonna be a reaction. I was going to table a motion on this. Maybe I can find another moment for that. A letter of amendment may be withdrawn and amendments may still be tabled. That may require a third deadline, but we shall then discuss it in committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u55	I hope not, because we do have a tight timetable. We will do our utmost to operate the Chamber quickly and adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u56	The vote is in two weeks. Perhaps that will give the committee and the minister time to see how this can work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u57	I may have missed it, but I have not heard the Minister about the skills and the problems involved, namely that private bankers with a degree in Wft Power would not meet the professional requirements. Time is running out on January 3, so does the Minister have an answer for that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u58	If there is a second time limit, you will receive that answer in second time, otherwise you will receive it in writing. My officials sign that I have the answer, but I didn't find it. Oh, the messenger's coming to bring it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u59	Look, speaking of skill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u60	Yes, on this page there is an answer to Mr Van Dijck's question about competence; subject and questioner are correct. How are private bankers gonna prove they're skilled? How can an investment firm demonstrate that employees of, for example, a call centre are competent? An investment firm must ensure that employees are competent. It concerns both workers who inform and workers who advise. An investment firm may use an external institute, such as in the Netherlands DSI, but can also take tests and exams with, for example, the call centre employees. But they have to be able to rig it up and, if necessary, show it happened. Mr Van Dijck has asked another question. Look, there was a little pile of "Van Dijck" behind the scenes. He asked if ING could also offer free research. I remember that question, too. Research can be offered free of charge if it is made generally available, for example on the website. Then it must be available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u61	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look around to see if all the questions have been answered. That's the case. I note that there is a need for a second deadline. I call Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u62	Mr. Chairman. I doubt whether this directive will actually do what it is intended to do, but we will support it. We believe that the regulation of financial markets is a good thing. As I made clear in the first term, we would prefer to see less large financial markets. Regulation is behind a rapidly developing financial sector, which manufactures products and has high technology, especially via the Internet. The question is, can you keep up? The first Directive was drawn up in 2006. After that, we had a financial crisis. It was about all kinds of bubbles, we know that, but the consequences were hard for the people at home. We have seen all kinds of other stock crises in between. I was talking about that flash crash. Last summer, all the central bankers in Jackson Hole got together. In the financial world, that's quite a happening. Mr Draghi, the head of the European Central Bank, has called for more regulation of world financial trade in order to make it more stable. He stated that after much research there are also many more means to regulate, despite the fact that, according to Mr Draghi, there will always be black holes, black pools, dark pools. That is what is happening. You want profit maximization. If fewer people understand what you're doing or can watch what you're doing, you might be able to take more profit. In the first instance, I submitted to the Minister that at least one instrument, namely simply a tax on those transactions, can work. Internationally, there isn't much incomparability about that either. Internationally, we can't do it. Why wait? Unfortunately, I have not heard an answer from the Minister. I'll file a motion, so I'll definitely get an answer in second term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the explanatory memorandum mentions large risks with regard to the automated stock trading discussed in MIFID II;]] [[considers that a financial transaction tax can achieve regulation and economic stabilisation;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a levy on the automated trading of financial instruments referred to in MIFID II using algorithms, including high frequency trading,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34583-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u63	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. In particular, the concerns of third country policies were a question of concern to us in the present legislative document. But with his answer, the Minister was able to take away that concern. In any case, he is going to make sure that the level playing field is implemented through a ministerial arrangement. Another point is the percentage cost allocation. We look forward to seeing what the discussions that are still coming will bring. We expect the Minister to inform us of the outcome before the votes. I'll get to the binary options. Thank you for taking forward the idea of a ban on advertising and ensuring that products are promoted to consumers in a fair manner. If these aren't fair products, they're banned. We hope that the legislation as it is now before us will also contribute to robust regulation and good supervision, which will also make this piece transparent in the financial sector, so that everyone can see what is happening. The CDA supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u64	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for clarity and proportionality, but also for dealing with third countries and exemptions. I think this is going to be an improvement, but we await the Minister's letter on this. I'm getting to the point of supervision costs. The Minister will come back to that too. If there is any doubt or lack of clarity, I would be in favour of withdrawing the second amendment, because otherwise there will be a lot of discussion and perhaps that will lead to other changes. I think it is important that there is support for this kind of thing in the sector. The final point is the maximisation of administrative functions. A number of clear answers have been given to these questions. The Minister has indicated that it will replace the Governance and Supervision Act. We've been trying to check how it's settled in the law. We have not yet been able to do that right. That is why I would like to present the following to the Minister. You should therefore rule out in the Governance and Supervision Act that it is still applicable. I assume that the MiFID regime will then apply and that the other regime will cease to apply. I would like to make that clear. The Minister states that one can directly request it from the AFM. I do not know how many companies and how many drivers this is, but I think that is a bit cumbersome for a lot of people. I can also imagine that, if you have identified a number, you will be able to come to something from which you can deduce whether something is a significant investment firm. I think it's important that we just have clarity and certainty, including for those people. Then they don't need to be called upon to not interpret it properly. That is all I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u65	Mr. Chairman. My amendment is not quite ready. But I do not understand why it is necessary for third country providers and non-professional investors to be obliged to open a branch here in the Netherlands. This has not been the case so far, but suddenly it is highly necessary to protect the retail investor. I think you're just taking away a lot of options from the retail investor by saying to all these investment institutions: go ahead, because in the Netherlands you're being chased at a cost with a branch. Moreover, this is a national headline, which we should not want. Hence my amendment. I would like to hear why the retail investor would benefit if a branch was established here. That would have been a huge gap for all those third-country investment firms which now have no branch and which have served retail investors all these years. Then I had a question about VAT. Why is research now subject to VAT? Until now, it has been an exempt side service, but it seems that research is also becoming more expensive. It may be offered for free if it is available to everyone, but we also read stories from American investment banks that are going to charge a lot of money. Then the retail investor has another check, because he can't afford it. Investing will really be something for the professionals, but retail people will only have to put their money on a savings bank book by 0%. That's what it looks like. The Minister also did not comment on the withdrawal of his advice. ING has already stopped advising small customers, ABN AMRO builds up investment with advice and the Rabobank has completely stopped its share business. All these customers, also many retail investors, are nowhere to go. That's what this minister should be worried about, isn't it? Finally, I would like to say a few words about costs. It costs €14,000 per investment firm per year to pay for the supervision. That's an estimate, an average, but what about in other countries? The Minister charges €14,000 in supervisory costs in his note following the report, but isn't that very high?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u66	Thank you very much, Mr Van Dijck. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has asked me to suspend for a few moments, so I ask the spokesmen to stay close.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u67	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u68	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Leijten once again expressed her concern as to whether we should settle enough now, whether we should act quickly enough and be on top of it enough. She recalled that MIFID I was already in the pre-crisis phase and that MIFID II is now in place. I would remind her how much we have now regulated in all kinds of European rules and regulations and how much the supervisors, national and European, have been developed. I do not often hear the complaint that too little is being done, but more and more often that too much is being done, which I do not agree with. It is true, however, that we must be very vigilant about developments in this sector. Again, this has to do with the speed of innovations with constantly new financial products and the deployment of new technologies, which can create new risks, concentration risks, instability and so on. That's what Draghi talked about. Much work is being done on this issue by the Financial Stability Board (FSB), which at G20 level is doing a great deal of work to achieve further and better international regulation for the financial sector. The atmosphere is far from there. I would just like to say in all sharpness that there is a need to deregulate. In America, you see exactly the same argument. The new government says: can't it all be a little less? There is talk of deregulation and simplification. The term "property" is also often used in this context. The regulators, the regulators and the Fed are really warning: people, let's not forget the lessons of the crisis and not think that it can all be released now. There is a great deal of alertness, at least among the supervisors. Mrs Leijten has advocated a tax on transactions, especially on flash transactions, and has tabled a motion on this. I'd better get that right away. When I took office as a minister, there was already an initiative for enhanced cooperation to arrive at an FTT. That would be very much in line with what Mrs Leijten wants. The Netherlands has always said that we absolutely do not want our pension funds to be affected by this. Pension funds do a lot of business, use these forms of securities trading and would be subject to taxation each time. This is at the expense of pensions and pension assets. That guarantee never came. To this day, however, there is no clarity as to what this FTT should look like. The last message from this group of countries is that they don't come out. They keep the fiction alive that they're still working on it, but I don't think it's gonna happen. There is a lot of complexity, there are a lot of disadvantages and there is a lot of disagreement about how it should be. In any case, the Dutch conditions are known. An all entrance of the Netherlands, if the SP is intended to do so, would simply not be effective. That really doesn't make any sense. If you want it, you have to do it internationally. That is extremely difficult. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mr Ronnes expressed his support. On the points he mentioned, we will come back soon and agree. Mrs De Vries says: if the second letter of amendment leads to a lot of discussion, withdraw it if necessary. We will. Today it has been reported to me that there is a lot of discussion and that there are many questions. As a responsible minister, I think it is careful to look at what is going on here, but it is certainly an opportunity to keep it as it is. A question has been asked about the maximum number of administrative positions and the relationship with the Governance and Supervision Act. It's more complicated than I thought. Mrs De Vries put it so sharply that I was going to think: it can't be that way, can it? She asked: if you are now a manager of one investment firm, are you further fully exempted from the Governance and Supervision Act? The answer to that is no. Maybe it is good to write this in the letter that we are going to make again very precisely. For example, the Management and Supervision Act includes a variety of types of functions, including large non-profit organisations, hospitals or universities, and distinguishes between types of functions. That adds up in a basket and then you can't have more than five points. I'm saying it now from the loose wrist. In that sense, this does not entirely replace it. That assessment is therefore still valid. But if you want to be a manager of an investment firm, an investment firm in the Netherlands, the first question is whether that investment firm is significant. If so, the new rules set out here will also apply. So you can have three or four administrative positions, where commercial functions, for example in a completely different type of company, say Unilever, would count. But in these regulations, the hospital and the university do not apply. So, unfortunately, it is more complex than I initially transferred to the Chamber. It is therefore good to write it out precisely, so that those involved have as much clarity as possible. Mrs De Vries also said that it would be nice if the AFM gave some guidance on what is or is not significant. That's just not how the regulations work. I can imagine that the AFM is gradually communicating about that, but, again, she really has the power to assess per company whether it is a very complex or a very large one. They are also really very different, all these investment firms. So it's hard to put that down a bar in one go. I will ask the AFM to do the best it can to give some guidance, clarity in advance, without publishing a list of what significant investment firms are. So it can't work that way. Mr Van Dijck has tabled an amendment. He raises major objections to a national head. Perhaps a word, because I think we have had this discussion before. I'm not interested in national headlines and gold-plating. Nor is it my policy to always avoid that. Sometimes that can just make sense. I am very aware that we will then have a critical debate on it. In many areas of European legislation, the Member State simply has to make its own decision, it is simply a national competence. Then you turn left, turn right or through the middle. But it would be very unwise to say as a Dutch parliament: once we have national space, we always choose the minimum variant. It may be environmental legislation or the protection of working conditions and it may be the financial sector: once something is left to the Member State, the Netherlands will always do the minimum. That would certainly not be my policy. In that sense, we really disagree. What's going on here? Why the branch obligation when it comes to retail investors? That is because we want all the rules of conduct to really apply. In principle, until now, people who offer investment products from third countries to retail investors in the Netherlands were already subject to authorisation, but they did not necessarily have to have a branch. The branch obligation simply means that supervision has more powers and that all conduct rules for that branch and for what is offered from that branch can also apply in full. In that sense, it is indeed an increase in relation to the situation we have now. We think that's important. There's too much junk on the market. People are being offered too much junk. I know the PVV. It is the first to stand up to ask questions about this when retail investors have once again been pulled off by a crook. I'd like the retail investors just to be served neatly from that branch. And if a third-country company doesn't want that, it doesn't. Then we protect our retail customer. I really need to check on VAT on research. We couldn't figure that out so fast. That is what we take with us in the letter, if you will, Mr President. The big banks would stop consulting. What does that mean for retail customers? We believe that there will still be plenty of research. In part, this will be made available to everyone and then it will be free of charge. In part, a retail customer can choose to pay to get good advice. That's how it's gonna work. In our estimation, the quality will really improve. Finally, Mr Van Dijck asked: €14,000 per company? He thought that was a very high amount. I thought it was a very neat rate. He's asked about other countries. I suggest that we also take this point with us. However, we are going to respond to the discussion on the letter of amendment, on how supervision costs are distributed. I suggest that we also return to the €14,000. Is that a crazy amount of money? Is that high or low compared to other countries? We're gonna see if we can get any information on that. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u69	Thank you, Minister. I do have one more question. Can you tell me when the letter, which still contains a great deal of information, can be with the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u70	Within a week. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u71	Within a week sounds very good, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u72	In the course of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u73	In the course of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-12-tweedekamer-26.u74	The votes are scheduled for Tuesday 26 September. The same applies to Mrs Leijten's motion and Mr Van Dijck's amendment.
