ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-03-eerstekamer-3.u1	I ask you all to stand up. On 28 June last, Wim Vergeer, former senator of the Catholic People's Party, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 11 May 1971 until 17 July 1979. Willebrordus Johannes Vergeer was born on 28 March 1926 in Zeist. After going through the mulo, he followed what was then called "industrial education." Afterwards, Mr Vergeer completed a programme of modern business administration in Utrecht. Since 1945, Mr Vergeer worked as a constructor in Utrecht and later as head of the company's office at Werkspoor N.V. For this company he worked in Argentina, the Delta Works, in the bus industry and in chemistry. Mr Vergeer's political career began in 1962, when he was appointed city council member in Utrecht. Mr Vergeer would be in office until 1977, of which he has also been alderman of companies and traffic in the last eleven years. At his farewell, he was awarded the silver medal of the city. On 11 May 1971 Mr Vergeer was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber of the States General. In this house he dealt with European Affairs, Transport and Water State and Home Affairs. In his maiden speech, Mr Vergeer spoke out for transparency in local and regional government. He argued that the administrative reclassification made clear what was the administrative and sociological function of what was then called "westen." Mr Vergeer was characterized in this house as a frank and unartificial politician. In June 1975 Mr Vergeer's political career took on a new dimension. Within the KVP a leadership crisis had arisen because of a dispute over the course of the party. After the sudden departure of the party chairman, Mr Vergeer was appointed as his successor. When he took office, he indicated that he wanted to put an end to the discussion about the party's course and that the link between the party's top and the base had to be restored. In the run-up to the merger of KVP, ARP and CHU to the CDA, Mr Vergeer, as party chairman, was in a difficult position to weigh both the interests of his own party and the merging party to be formed. Yet he remained patiently confident. In order for the consultation model to prevail over the conflict model, he used his undisputed administrative qualities. For example, Mr Vergeer contributed that the ideology of the KVP in the CDA remained recognizable. In 1978 Mr Vergeer was given a political position alongside his party presidency and First Chamber membership. He was appointed a member of the European Parliament. The first year he was appointed by the States-General, then directly elected. As a result, he left the First Chamber. When he was elected Vice-President of the CDA Group in the European Parliament in 1979, he was forced to resign his party presidency. Mr Vergeer chose to focus his attention on his activities in Brussels. Within the European Parliament, Mr Vergeer developed into an expert on development cooperation. In 1987 he initiated a research mission into the democratisation process and the protection of human rights in Suriname. He received broad support in the European Parliament for a resolution on this subject. He also conducted a successful one-man campaign to free up money for the fight against blindness in developing countries. He himself considered these successes to be too marginal. Mr Vergeer, in his view, did not have enough room within the European Parliament to develop his vision of the development issue. He therefore decided to leave the European Parliament in 1989 and to focus fully on development work. At his farewell, he was awarded the Robert Schumann penning by the Christian Democratic Group for his efforts. During his working life, Mr Vergeer performed a variety of other social functions. For example, he was chairman of the Dutch Catholic Trade Union, Vice-President of the Government-Business-Working Market Foundation and Chairman of the Cooperation Foundation for Advanced Education in Uden. Mr Vergeer was a knight in the Order of the Dutch Lion. May our respect for his person and his great merit for Dutch and European parliamentary democracy be to his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
