ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal to amend some of the education laws relating to the introduction of some adjustments with limited policy implications and some technical changes relating, inter alia, to the financing of appropriate education and the introduction of the teacher register. I welcome the Secretary of State for OCW. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The whole title above was a reason for us to take a closer look at the content of these amendments. Then we noticed that on parts it was a bit more than some technical adjustments. This has been the reason why we have asked for it to be removed, so that at least an orderly discussion can take place. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for showing such willingness. We all agree that every child deserves a suitable place in education. As an aid structure, even the appropriate education has been designed for this purpose. In one of the last debates that this Secretary of State took part in in this Gremium, I would like to point out publicly once again that we, as SGP, have a great deal of appreciation for the way in which the Secretary of State started doing this. It is clear that there is still a lot of work to be done and that a lot of work has also been done. There are also continuous improvements on parts. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal that we are discussing today seems to be of a technical nature, but there is also some substantive discussion between this technique about children who need additional support. In fact, this is a bit the litmus test for the appropriate education. It is a question of how we deal with children who do not entirely, or sometimes not at all, fit into our usual, beautiful school system. Today we are talking about homeowners. These are not the pupils who are at home as a result of the strike, but the pupils who, due to mental, medical or physical constraints, are unable to take up all or part of their education. The SGP believes that there is too little movement and that problems are being maintained unnecessarily. I would like to make five points. Firstly, the documents accompanying this legislative proposal show that the current practice of compulsory education and appropriate education does not work as it should. The government writes that an experiment is being carried out in which children can receive part-time education. It is remarkable that these children are exempt from the obligation to go to school. Children who are apparently still able to visit the school part of the week should not be exempted from compulsory schooling, should they? These are especially children for whom appropriate education is intended. It may be that this is a game of words. That is not my intention, but I think clarification is desirable on this point. The second point I would like to make concerns the one-to-one transfer of exemption from special education to regular education. The government states that it has not been examined whether the existing exemption option meets the needs of regular education. My question is: why not? The situation in mainstream education is quite different from that in special education. On what basis does the government base its expectation that there will be fewer exemptions in mainstream education than in much smaller special education? Is the maximum number of 150 to 200 exemptions a real assumption? I'd like to hear some reflection on that. The third point concerns the proposal that schools should be obliged to request permission from the inspection to provide tailor-made services to these children. The SGP considers this to be an unnecessarily cumbersome procedure. More importantly, it is also at odds with thinking from the appropriate education. The primary point is that the school is therefore responsible for providing all pupils with appropriate education. In principle, we can and must trust that the professionals, in consultation with the parents, can make the right balance. Therefore, no prior authorisation from the inspection should be requested. Of course, it is up to the inspection to check whether schools comply with the intention of the law. It may be useful for the inspection to have an overview of the number of exemptions. An obligation to notify is therefore excellent with regard to the SGP, with a copy of the development perspective with which an exemption should always go hand in hand. After all, it is about appropriate education. I have tabled an amendment together with the SP in respect of item No. 9, replacing "authorisation' with "notification'. I'd like to hear the government's reaction. The fourth point concerns the fact that the exemption is granted only for one year. The SGP points out that this deadline is not mentioned in the legislative proposal. So that's a little more detail. In our opinion, it would be orderly to include this obligation, if it is really desired, in the law, but this aside. It is more important that the addition of an annual report or an annual request for authorisation creates unnecessary burdens. Why, for example, should a school apply for an annual exemption when there is a student with chronic disabilities in whom no changes are to be expected? The SGP considers it more logical to opt for a mandatory notification at the start and at the end of a deviation from the regular standards. The SGP notes that the government seems to assume in the documents that exemptions are usually only of short duration. That is perfectly possible, and our proposal is fully in line with that. However, the government assumes, in principle, that pupils will grow to more hours of education in the school. Of course, it would be nice if that were feasible. Once again, I very much agree with that: if it is possible, it must be done. But the practice shows quite a bit different. There are also students with chronic disability with no prospects of improvement. The SGP responds negatively to the suggestion that a number of hours should be included in a development perspective. An hourly standard is often difficult to handle, especially in the case of exemptions. Moreover, I do not read this standard of hours in the bill or in the article on the development perspective. In short, the SGP calls for the exemption to offer all the possibilities for tailor-made work needed to promote the well-being of the learner. I have also tabled an amendment on this point together with the SP, the amendment on item No. 8. I'd like to hear a response to that. I come to my final point. The SGP believes that schools should be able to use funding to provide tailor-made quality, even if this is partly done in or through private education or private bodies. I know this could be a sensitive point. I believe that this should be carefully monitored, but in the specific cases where tailor-made work is required, a private offer can offer exactly what a student has been helped with. Of course, schools should not choose to do so easily, nor should they choose to cooperate, but a ban goes too far. Otherwise, schools and partnerships would be hampered by their legal obligation to provide appropriate education. Unfortunately, I read again in the answers that it would not be allowed to spend educational resources at a private institution. The idea is that the funding will then end up with institutions which do not meet the conditions for funding. But in all sobriety: isn't that what happens when schools hire an accountant, pay an advertising agency, employ a caterer or take an overpriced course in the context of training for the teacher register? Why should that be allowed, but not providing tailor-made work for pupils in education? I am considering tabling a motion for an independent inquiry, but knowing the Secretary of State, I have great confidence that we will have worked in vain on that motion because he will make a generous undertaking that that investigation will be carried out. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kwint suddenly found out on his way here that he has very filthy shoes. That is the mud of the Zuiderpark we have just come from, so at the end of this period I cannot be blamed for not standing with the legs in the clay. The temptation is enormous in a bill where the word "teacher's register" sits in long discourses about what a miserable thing it is. But I'm not gonna do that, because this law doesn't or hardly touch that teacher register, which, by the way, is a miserable thing. But that wretched thing will undoubtedly be discussed later in the future. I am going to talk here mainly about appropriate education, but not about the many problems there, because this law contains only a few minor amendments. In fact, in addition to the points that Mr Bishop has already made, there is only one point that I would like to discuss a little more. That is the position of the student who is temporarily or permanently unable to go to school full-time but who is in a regular school. Then you have compulsory education which prescribes, among other things, a number of hours of education to be followed. You're at school or sick. These are basically the possibilities offered, whereas the idea of appropriate education was right to provide that customisation. A small amendment is now being proposed in this direction in the law, including a derogation from the time of education for which approval from the inspection should be requested. If I understand correctly, the specific number of hours that someone is exempt from that standard must also be reported. That is where the SP is concerned. Firstly, because, of course, a child's development perspective can change tremendously within a year. It takes little effort to imagine that the number of hours of exemption that someone gets in September, if things get better with that child, will not be necessary at all in March. And if, for example, someone has a progressive illness, he may be able to go to school for a few hours in September, but he may not be able to do so in March. More than unnecessary sitting at home is, of course, undesirable, but this could lead to this. The result could also be that children still have to go to school against happiness, when things are actually not going so well anymore. In addition, we do not believe that customisation should be allowed to wait for the inspection to be approved. That is why we, together with the SP I mean the SGP: I am now doing the opposite of what Van der Vlies did that SP said instead of SGP I made two amendments. Yes, as a school, you do report to the inspection that you've granted someone exemption from the standard, but no, you don't have to wait for permission. And yes, you also trust the school and its expertise in that. You trust that a school will continue to think about the maximum teaching hours that a student can take at that time throughout the year. But you don't record this in advance and you don't have to wait for the inspection. It is, of course, reported at the inspection and, if the inspection at the school comes by or asks questions, it must of course be possible to explain why this solution has been chosen. We believe that this collection of minor, mainly technical, changes in this way can ultimately lead to an improvement in the position of a vulnerable pupil. That'd be nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today there are a number of technical legislative changes on appropriate education and the teacher register. These are two very important issues that we will undoubtedly often discuss in substance, but now we are restricting ourselves to technical changes. As far as we're concerned, they make the laws better. In this way, these legislative changes make it possible for individual pupils in regular education to be able to deviate from the prescribed time of education. They may be exempted for physical or psychological reasons, but the inspection must be authorised. Like the SGP and the SP, we noticed that this proposal does not fully reflect the customisation that the Secretary of State wants. The SGP and the SP are tabling an amendment on this, as Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint have just said. In this proposal you will report the situation to the inspection but there is no need to wait for consent. GroenLinks thinks that this is a very sympathetic idea to offer tailor-made solutions and to be able to respond quickly to changes. However, we still have a question for the proposers. Maybe the Secretary of State can take them with him in his term. I just realized that I should have asked that question when the authors were standing here, but somehow Mr Bishop's story went so fast that I didn't get there. I would like to know what happens if the inspection disagrees with the school's argument. Should the student go back to the old situation? We had a second question, but I think it has already been answered. That question was: what happens when the number of exemption hours changes in the meantime? I understood from Mr Bishop's explanation that the amendment does not make it necessary to report the number of hours of exemption. Maybe this can be confirmed. I'm curious to hear the answers. Perhaps we can also support the amendments after hearing these answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u7	Mr President, may I use the interrupting ruse?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u8	For once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u9	I can imagine that there is some need for structure. Only, the characteristic of children who need appropriate education is that you can estimate a starting situation but not a final situation. And the amendments provide for this flexibility to be placed on professionals, under the supervision of the inspection. If that leads to a difference of opinion, which I can hardly imagine, because both on the inspection side and on the school side there is professionalism, I am sure that you will come out of it in good consultation. That is why we deliberately did not introduce such detailing. We thought that was going a little too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u10	That seems perfectly clear to me. I was also finished with my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u11	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. I see he's quitting his input. Then we arrived at the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u12	I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me repeat what Mr Bishop said: if we take a part of that law that we want to talk about, then it is appropriate education. The idea is that more children than in the past can have a place in regular education, so that they can enjoy school in their own neighborhood with their own friends, but can also play sports outside school time, etc. That is the aim of appropriate education. Recently, before the summer, we talked about this. We are slowly but surely seeing that education also succeeds in achieving a slight shift. Not that there are suddenly a lot more children in a class, but slowly we see that moving in the right direction. At the same time, a great deal of further steps are needed to do so properly. It's work in progress. One of the elements involved: can you give a little more space in the legal rules and procedures in the education laws, so that that customization can be done properly? That's where this bill takes a first small step. We have called it technical, because there are still more wishes. Mr Bishop himself referred to a number of examples, which were repeated by Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint. This is not the only bill that is still in the pipeline. At least, this is already there, but there is also one in the pipeline that follows. I'll talk about that later. Today we are talking about a number of changes that are necessary for the proper implementation of the funding of appropriate education, including for those children who need tailor-made work. We can see that regular schools currently have fewer opportunities to offer customization than schools for special education. In fact, that does not make sense, because the objective of appropriate education was precisely to offer more children a suitable place. Following the introduction of this bill, regular and special schools in principle have the same opportunities to deviate from teaching time. But, as I say immediately, if you deviate from teaching time, the intention must always be to try to grow as much as possible to the situation where those children simply prefer to go back to school full-time. However, there are children for whom this is temporarily not possible or temporarily not fully possible. There are, for example, children who at a time are very bad at stimuli and who do not actually learn how to get them in a classification. This could provide a solution for these children, including in mainstream education. There are children who, due to treatment in care, can temporarily receive less education. There are children who, because of their physical condition, are unable to sit in a chair for hours in a row for five days a week. There is room for that in the vso and we would also like to offer that space in regular education. Mr Bishop asked a number of specific questions. I just want to walk them by. His first question was: what about part-time education and children who have been granted an exemption? We do two things. This bill gives regular education the possibility already exists in special education. Mr Bishop is actually referring to a category of which we might say: those are children who could have full-time education for a very long time and perhaps never for a very long time. They can do that sometimes only a day a week or sometimes only a few hours a week. Those students are currently exempt from compulsory schooling. The children who are in that category are called the "5a students." We have said that we would like to see what is possible for a longer period of part-time education, but before we put that into legislation and regulation, we want to take a test with it. That test is running right now. That's the part-time test. That's a slightly different category from what this bill sees on it. Mr Bishop's second question was: what about the possibilities for exemption and the assumption that there will be relatively fewer pupils than in special education? Special education usually includes children who need extra care and additional adjustments. In special education, this exemption is often used by children who, for example, are in a psychiatric institution and as a result cannot go to school full-time. This will therefore be regularly used in special education. We suspect that this is less necessary in mainstream education. We did not investigate this in depth, for example because in our view this was a rather technical change. It is a change that introduces a possibility that already exists in special education, also in mainstream education. In this respect, we think that this change is less far-reaching than a number of adjustments relating to part-time permanent education, or I shall say a few words about it later. These are also much more fundamental adjustments for the system than the proposal we are making. Mr Bishop also asked: what about those hours? Is there really room for customization and customization? The answer to that is yes. Mr Bishop, together with Mr Kwint, has the amendment to item No. 8 submitted. With this they want to change something in the article in the law that requires schools to teach in principle over five working days. But that focuses very much on schools and not so much on individual students. I do not think that this amendment really changes so much compared to the current legal practice, but if Mr Bishop and Mr Kwint say 'we find it so much more clearly regulated with this amendment', then I would have no objection to it. I leave it to the House to decide on the amendment to item No. So 8 to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of why permission from the inspection is needed. There are two reasons for this. The first reason is that if you grant partial exemption from compulsory schooling, that is a rather far-reaching decision which it is good to look at. I also think that the inspection could and should have a role in this. It always does that very constructively, also for children who have a more unpredictable pattern. For them, you're not gonna make super tight appointments if it can vary a bit. This is also taken into account by our inspection. There was also a question of what would happen if the inspection did not agree. We often see in practice that a solution is found in good conversations. It never leads to high-level conflicts. However, it is a good thing that someone should look over the school's shoulder to see whether an exemption is justified on the basis of a student's development perspective. Is there a prospect of growth, for example? How many hours is it? Is the derogation really necessary and justified? Is there any prospect of growth towards a number of hours with which the child goes back to full-time school and, if not, why not? That is why it is a good thing that the inspection really takes a look at it and checks it out. The second reason is procedural. We are going to follow the same procedure in regular education as in special education. If we broaden it, regular education will soon have a wider regime than special education. Moreover, we do not get any complaints in special education that the authorisation procedure of the inspection leads to really big bumps. Also in terms of consistency within the system, looking at how things are going in the vso, I do not see any problems and I would really like to stick to them. That is why I have tabled the Bishop/Kwint amendment to item No. 9 detachment. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of why the exemption is granted only for one year. This is very much in line with the legal procedure surrounding the development perspective. Schools are obliged to discuss and re-evaluate the development perspective with parents each year. Children are also developing, so it may also be good to check whether the exemption is still relevant. If that is the case, I suspect that the inspection will go back into it quite soon. But it's not good to say at the beginning: you have an exemption once; you know what, we're going through it for the whole school career at once. On the contrary, I think it is right that it should be reviewed periodically. Mr. Chairman. It has been asked whether, in the legislative proposal, that is not the proposal we are discussing now, it is not necessary to give any more room for the institutions that have been paid for, if necessary, for a child to spend part of the school time with a private funded institution, but with public money. Mr Bishop pointed out that a school may hire a caterer or an accountant and that these organisations are not part of the funded system either. I find that a little bit like apples and pears. If you give someone an order to do a job, that's a bit different than if you put a child for several days a week or maybe permanently with a completely different agency, after which you no longer see that child and in fact it is no longer under your responsibility. That is why we are much more reluctant to do so and that at least we did not include this in this technical proposal. At the same time, at the request of your Chamber, we have initiated a process. I believe that a motion by Mr Rog and Mrs Ypma was adopted on this one and a half years ago, asking to see if you could not offer a very little more room than is currently the case. In the meantime, we have put a bill into internet consultation. That proposal is still under way. I suspect that this will be submitted to the Chamber by another cabinet. So I would not suggest that we investigate this, as Mr Bishop suggested, but simply go further along the legislative path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u14	I am listening in the reaction of the Secretary of State to a misunderstanding. It has not been the intention or intention of my speech to place those children outside a school or outside the responsibility of a school. This is what I'm talking about. Schools which come to the conclusion that a child needs specific support that neither the partnership nor the school itself can offer, but which is available on the market................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Hence the motion, because there are quite a few unexplored possibilities here, because we have always been very reluctant to do so. That has been the reason for the request for an investigation, so that we can make maximum or optimal use of it. Has the Secretary of State been helped with this explanatory statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u15	Yeah, but that's really something that's included in the next bill. It is already possible to hire a private party's expertise under the responsibility of and also in its own school. What the debate with the Chamber has always been about is that I am also looking a little over your shoulder at Mr Rog... is the possibility of bringing children for part of the week, sometimes for quite a long time, really into another school, a school that is out of order and which is at least not funded by public funds. That is a fundamental change in the system. I have always been very reluctant to do so, because I think that the public-funded system of appropriate education, in which we want to have a cover for all children, should not create some sort of escape hills where the cooperative and publicly funded schools for complicated children say: well, that is useful, because then we can bring them there. I am looking for opportunities, and perhaps more opportunities than under the current legislation, but you also have reservations in my words, because I also see that the most complicated cases are too easily removed from the system if you are too open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u16	As far as I am concerned, that can never be the intention, but it goes beyond just hiring from outside and bringing in expertise. I can imagine that children could be helped to follow an education programme, in whole or in part, at a different location for a certain period of time, without giving up the responsibility of the public educational institution concerned. We should not play words, but at that point I would like to insist that we take a good look at all these possibilities, just a little unbiased, from the point of view of: what was the child helped with? I do not know the bill that has been given in consultation, but if I listen to it that way, this motion could be an additional support to make that bill move forward with force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u17	The legal concepts that are in consultation are not secret, so I invite Mr Bishop to take a look at them so that he can see what we are doing in them. We are going to give more room in this than we are at present. Perhaps that will satisfy Mr Bishop. Why I am a little reluctant on this issue is clear. The reason I'm a little reluctant about any research motion on your part, which of course I haven't seen yet, is the following. Research can sometimes be very useful, but if we go back to research now, I know one thing for sure: that law will not come to the Chamber in the foreseeable future. My successor, the Secretary of State or the Minister of Education, will then wait for the outcome of that investigation again, while a law has just been brought into procedure which gives more scope. So I'm not excited about an investigation either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u18	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u19	I think I have answered all the questions that have been asked, including those of Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld, whose questions were in line with those of Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you. Then I'll take a look at the Chamber and see if there's a need for a second term. That's the case. Then I give the floor to Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I can make it quick. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I would also like to thank you for your positive assessment of the amendment on item No. 8. Unfortunately, this was followed by the betrayal of the amendment to item No. 9. I have listened carefully and I also know that it does not necessarily cause problems in practice. But where rapid action is needed, I would say: let us opt for a report. The review, whatever we agree on, will come. And the conversation about that: when there is time, it happens in advance. That's how it works in teaching practice. But if there is a hurry, I would say that a report is preferable. I am not filing the motion I have announced at this time. I'll wait for the bill. It may well be that this motion will prove to be adequate and then we will simply come up with it, but at least I do not want to frustrate the legislative process. I'm not entirely happy with the deadline for the exemption. It is now quite strict, once a year it has to be repeated, but there are so many cases that it does not make sense. I would leave room for that, but I have not prepared a motion or anything about it. That will come back at a later stage. Mr President, I shall leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you. Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld waive their second term. Then we will be on the side of the Chamber at the end of the second term. The Secretary of State wants to respond immediately. I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u23	It's at that point of reporting versus keys. Mr Bishop says: if there are really urgent cases, then you do not want to wait for such a whole procedure. You don't want to wait for the inspection to give the green light for once. Two things. Firstly, the inspection is proceeding incredibly quickly. So it's not like kids have to wait months to decide. The second point is that, in the event of haste and urgency, a sleeve is always attached to these things. It is not the case that when a child cannot really go to school, it is tied to his seat, so to speak, because there is no exemption from compulsory schooling with approval of the inspection. That's why I want to stick to the principle. I think it's really good that there are more than two eyes looking at this, and that it's not just a report. We must also prevent children who can learn very well, who are very smart but also a little tricky, from being placed too easily outside the system, because it is said: you can do it in two or three days, so to speak. Those are the things we don't want. On the contrary, I think it would be very helpful for the inspection to take a good look at that too, so we can approve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the discussions on the amendment of some education laws in connection with making some adjustments with limited policy implications etc. I thank the Secretary of State of OCW for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-05-tweedekamer-10.u25	The amendments tabled and the legislative proposal will be voted on next Tuesday. We're ahead of schedule by now. A further revised schedule will be circulated. I shall suspend the sitting until 6.15 p.m.
