ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u1	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u2	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the draft regulation on compensation for the use of main railway infrastructure, the VVD considers the maintenance of the level playing field and the protection of Dutch interests to be of great importance. That's why I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the German Government has announced a substantial reduction in the operating fee for rail transport operators;]] [[Whereas this may have consequences for the position of the rail in the modal shift, as well as for the competitive position of Dutch ports vis-à-vis German ports;]] [[considers that the market investigation, when determining the level of the additional charge, does not provide sufficient guarantees for the effective maintenance of a level playing field and the protection of Dutch interests in this respect;]] [[Calls on the Government to strengthen the maintenance of a level playing field as a condition for introducing and setting the level of the additional levy in the draft decision before sending it to the Council of State for its opinion;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the draft Decision introduces additional charges and arrangements for the use of rail infrastructure;]] [[considers that double regulation and administrative burden should be avoided and that the competitiveness of the Dutch railways and ports should not be impaired;]] [[Calls on the Government, the Advisory Board on Regulatory Pressure, Actal, to have a test carried out on the regulatory burden, including policy decisions and administrative burden of the draft decision, with particular attention to the impact of the competitive position of Dutch ports;]] [[invites the Government to inform the House of Representatives of the results of that test before sending the decision for opinion to the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-724]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29984-725]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u3	Mr. Chairman. Following on from the previous debate, I would like to say that we are keen to encourage rail freight transport. It is a safe and sustainable way of transport. At the same time, the rail freight market is a market that is not tied to the Dutch border; it is truly a European market. That is why we must ensure that the level playing field is as uniform as possible and that the prices for rail freight transport in the Netherlands are not higher than in other countries, because this puts us at risk that transport companies will opt for other modes. That is why I wholeheartedly support the motion tabled by Mr Middendorp. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how she assesses developments in Germany and what opportunities it sees if the Germans actually opt for a reduction in tariffs, to act quickly in the Netherlands, so that the Netherlands remains on a level playing field in the European rail freight market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u4	That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend until the Secretary of State has the text of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u5	Mr. Chairman. I must honestly say that the authors of the motions put me in a difficult position with the wish expressed last by Mr Jetten. He wants us to be able to respond quickly and well to developments in other countries. He also specifically asked me about tariffs in Germany, for example. With the revision of the usage fee before us, I am aiming at multiannual transparency and stability of tariffs, as is already the case in Germany at the moment. The revised usage fee consists of three components. That's the fee for the minimum access package. That's what ProRail stands for at the bar and the ACM checks it out. This is a charge that allows for differentiation by segment, and these are any price incentives, including those for the Base Network. We are talking about the last two today, because the AMvB creates the basis for charging and price incentives. I'm gonna go over the definition of that. I would like to say that a review is really in the interests of the carriers. On the contrary, the AMvB enables me to take into account the competitive position of the Dutch goods sector when establishing a levy. And I can't right now. Two things are actually asked in both motions. There is a demand for an adjustment of what is now before us and a test is then asked for. If we're all gonna do that, we're gonna have a really big delay. Then we'll just be months away. I do not know whether that is in the interests of the carriers. I will respond in this way to what is being asked in the motion, but that is already contained in the proposal as it stands today. So the proposers are actually going to secure something extra. It's gonna take a lot of time. And then that affects the flexibility that we need in order to be able to adapt something quickly. And that is exactly what the proposers want! It can't be all at once. That's the way it is in life. It's my job, as annoying as it is, to make that clear to everyone every time. Before I take the two motions to the head, I want to say something about the master plan for Germany. That's for the period 2018-2022. It is in itself good for international rail freight transport if the price goes down. This is also in line with our agenda, with innovation, digitalisation and longer trains. But it's still a plan. The new government, so that's the government that comes in after the elections, finally takes a final decision. There is indeed a significant reduction in the master plan. This seems to be beneficial, also for freight transport to and from the Netherlands. If this is continued, we will indeed have to examine exactly what the effect is, including for Dutch ports. I am referring to the results of this in drawing up a Dutch master plan, which I believe Mr Middendorp is also in favour of. If the Chamber gives me a mandate now, then I can also involve myself in setting the rates. It's up to you! Oh, Mr. Elias doesn't want that. "It's up to you," we say. In the motion in part No. 724 by Mr Middendorp and Mr Jetten state that there must be a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u6	Your opinion on the motion in part No. 724 is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u7	That's what I'm coming up with right now. I'm gonna do a little introduction first. Very briefly! I'm already feeling heavy. I'll tell you the worst: I'm deceiving both motions. And why? Mr Middendorp and Mr Jetten say that a level playing field should be more firmly anchored as a condition for introducing and setting the level of the additional levy, and that the whole draft decision should therefore be adapted to new round, new opportunities and sent to the Council of State. What is requested in the motion is simply already secured in the market investigation. The theme of the level playing field is the touchstone in that market investigation. But research must show that this is really something that is at stake. A direct anchoring of it in the levy already takes a lot of time and is not necessary either. That is precisely what we are doing in order to determine when we set tariffs whether we have sensible tariffs in mind. The proposers want to create almost an extra kind of security, namely the certainty that there is not a secretary of state who thinks: well, you know what, I'm going to propose a hugely high rate. But this is already anchored throughout the process. I really wouldn't think it wise to get into the delay. The same applies to the other motion tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Jetten. Price incentives and levies ultimately benefit the sector. Most price incentives are already in place. ProRail and the carriers are implementing this and are thus able to monitor the administrative burden and the regulatory burden. Apparently Actal is now called the Advisory Board on Control Pressure, or ATR. The ATR does not in itself look at the competitive position. If we're gonna have to do this again, we're gonna be way behind. My successor therefore lacks the opportunity to respond to what may occur after September in the neighbouring country. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u8	I don't quite get it after the answer. The Secretary of State said that my question got her into trouble because I asked her to be flexible about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u10	The Secretary of State has said that she is going to create peace and stability for more years. But then, in her further detailed introduction and in the explanatory notes to both motions, she will tell us how she wants to respond. With the proposal before us, can it respond better to market developments and thus ensure a level playing field in Europe or not? That is quite crucial for the two motions that we have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u11	So the answer is yes. That's exactly what I'm creating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u12	But my question was: how soon will the Secretary of State be able to respond to developments as announced in Germany? The answer to that question was that I asked an impossible question because I asked for flexibility from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u13	No, no, no. This is a typical "last day confusion." The revision of the usage fee gives us more room to respond to the type of developments that are taking place in Germany. That is what the authors of the motion want, because they think a level playing field, can quickly switch and so on. This is precisely what is possible with the current legislation. If Mr Jetten and Mr Middendorp then, with all the horns and bells that I think are superfluous, help me in the delay, they will not only be driving themselves into the wheels but, above all, the freighters for which they are undoubtedly doing so. In one sentence, I have summarised what is going on. It doesn't seem so smart to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u14	Thanks for the answer. If there is much good to the proposal, it is not that there can not be something that can be better. If we're in a lot of hurry to make things better, that doesn't mean we don't have time to see if anything can be done better. In her reply, the Secretary of State discussed the two motions at the same time, but I do not think that is entirely correct. I can conclude by saying that what is being asked for in the motion on item No. 724 is pretty complicated. On the other hand, there is also something to win without having to turn everything upside down. Let me give you an example. It is said that the ACM should take some things with it. This can be anchored more firmly and be used more firmly. Other examples are also available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u15	Can you come to the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u16	The question is whether the Secretary of State sees possibilities for the motion in part No. To execute 724 without taking a very long time and to turn everything upside down. The motion in part No. 725 concerns a very different kind of call. The question is whether or not we let Actal take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u17	I'm just reading what's in the motion. You ask me to take back the whole regulation that is now before you, to adapt it and then to allow the Council of Ministers to fully agree. Then it has to go back to the Council of State. I can't help it; you wrote it down yourself. Then you shouldn't ask me to read a little bit about that. Then you shouldn't have written it down. It's pretty neat. Mr Jetten says that we want to be able to respond quickly to market developments, because that is important for the rail goods sector. I agree with that from A to Z. I also agree that we must take account of what is happening in Germany. By the way, I don't just have EUR 350 million in my back pocket, and maybe you don't either. Nevertheless, I say that if we want to be able to take account of developments, we need to review this usage fee. That's ahead of us now. If you now instruct me to take back the scheme, tighten it up and let it pass through the ATR, then I am not going to be flexible about it. Then I'll have to do with what I have now. Actually, I don't think that's a good idea. It's still a choice. If you say 'it doesn't matter to me, only take six months and then we will, because we can wait', you shouldn't ask me the same question of flexibility. Because then it is: no, we think the rules are so important that we are going to talk about it all over again. Then the rules need to be tightened. Then we have to go back to the Council of Ministers and the Council of State. Then you have your great perfection, and then we have probably been debating for six months what is happening in Germany. Then I have to say to you: you have chosen that I cannot do anything about it now. At least, someone else says that to you, but no doubt with just as much passion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u18	I call Mr Middendorp for a brief response. They're short VAOs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u19	I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether they are calling for the motion in part No. 724 understands and whether she understands the call in the motion in part No. 725 understands whether she is sympathetic to this and wants to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u20	I fully understand that we need to be flexible, that we need a level playing field, that we need to avoid unnecessary regulatory pressure and that we need to regulate it as best we can for our rail freight carriers. If you'd like to hear that from me... I said it. That's what I think. That's my intention. If you want to re-establish all this, with all the package leaflets, in the rules that are now in place, I say: you are putting the horse behind the cart. That's up to you. I didn't recommend the motions, but if the Chamber makes a different decision, I'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-06-tweedekamer-34.u21	The motions tabled will be put to the vote this evening at the end of the sitting.
