ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State and give the floor to Mr Ziesgs, who is speaking on behalf of the VVD, for the questions on GenX pollution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. My group is very concerned about the fact that after a year and a half of reporting on GenX, the problem is not ending, but increasing. After the polluted air and the polluted water, the ground is now up. I ask the Secretary of State why, in addition to research into the hazard properties of and exposure to substances released by GenX technology in ambient air, surface water and drinking water, no soil research has been carried out. How is it that RIVM sees emissions from the Chemours plant as no risk to the health of residents, taking into account the current impasse with contaminated soil? And when are the standards to be expected? Finally, Mr President. According to the Zuid-Holland Zuid Environment Service, additional research will take six months. Does this really mean that the gardening companies, contractors, builders and residents will be left on their property for six months with polluted land, with all the health and economic consequences? Is there a view of a special depot, which is set up as a matter of urgency and where one can go with the contaminated soil? If this doesn't happen, is the expectation that illegal interference will occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to Mr Ziengs. First of all, let me say that it is annoying that there are once again unrest and suffering from this pollution around Chemours. Not only Mr Ziengs, the inhabitants and the businesses in the area have been confronted with this for a long time. I just spoke to one of my officials, and I believe they've been working on it for two years. We would also like to do something else there. Mr. Chairman. I turn to the specific questions put by Mr Ziengs. The soil has been investigated and, if not, why not? I can reassure Mr Ziengs. Research has been done, including the soil. A report was published last May and it shows that there is no danger. In terms of soil pollution, we remain well below the guide value, where health risks could arise. But there is no re-use standard. So if you take that land out of there, you don't know how to safely use it elsewhere. That is what this new standard is now being developed for, and indeed it will take six months. The point of health is therefore limited, but like Mr Ziengs I can imagine that it is just strange that when an entrepreneur comes to tackle your garden, who then leaves a whole mountain of ground on your doorstep. This is bad for the resident and also bad for the entrepreneur. I don't think it's good for the client relationship between the two of them either. Then why can't we take that land? The Zuid-Holland-Zuid Environment Service has declared a transport ban to prevent land that we do not know is clean enough for re-use from going anywhere in the Netherlands. But as a result, the entrepreneur still has a problem. I agree with Mr Ziengs that a depot would be a very good solution to this. That is a responsibility of the municipalities. I do not understand that in all the municipalities this discussion is being held, and it seems to me to be the obvious option to talk about a depot so that the entrepreneur can get back on with his business and not suffer unnecessary damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	Then there is the question of the six-month period during which the investigation takes place. My question to the Secretary of State is whether that period can be shortened. Is it really so necessary that there are six months to go over that, so those people with these mountains of sand stay on as long as there is no depot? That's what I'm curious about anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	That was one of the first questions I asked when I heard this, about those six months. I understand that, unfortunately, there is not much to do about it. Not much is known about this substance and before you know how to get it back out of the ground in a good way or at what value there is no damage or risk for reuse, you are really six months away. That is why it is so important that we find an intermediate solution, so that people do not sit on their premises with a pile of sand for six months and entrepreneurs do not stand still for six months. Of course, that cannot be the solution. That is why it is so important that in these municipalities the talk about the depot is really done, so that people are off that land on their doorstep, they don't have to ask security questions about it and entrepreneurs can just go through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	I understand from the Secretary of State's commitment that she is going to take action towards the municipalities in order to have that conversation in the very short term, so that this six-month period can be reduced considerably and those grounds can be deposited in the dedicated depot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	This is a responsibility of the municipalities. I can certainly encourage them to do so, but it is their responsibility. I can promise Mr Ziengs the following. If, in the discussion that takes place in municipalities, there are knowledge questions to which the Inspection Environment and Transport could still help the municipalities, then of course they can always call and I am willing to help them, because people cannot stay on land for six months and entrepreneurs cannot stop for six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	We're seeing a case we've been talking about before, about Chemours at Dordrecht. First there was PFOA pollution, then there was GenX pollution. That's a bit of an unknown indeed. Now it seems as if GenX is not only there but also in other places. As a group, we are concerned about this, even when we hear that we now have soil pollution as well as air pollution and water pollution. So my question is actually: can the Secretary of State in the future, I can imagine that it can't come to us right now with information on how this is arranged in other places? How do we really get a grip on where substances are emitted and what we have to look at when it comes to air, water and soil pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	I think Mrs Van Eijs is asking a question which, in part, lies with me, but for a large part, of course, with the competent authorities which issue the licences for these companies. So keeping a close eye on that permit, what should and should not be emitted and monitored, is, of course, also the work of the environmental services. The Inspection Environment and Transport has a system responsibility and checks whether the environmental services do this properly. I think that is the starting point. I understand Mrs Van Eijs' concerns very well. We want to get more clarity with each other about what's going into our air, what's going into the water, what's going into the soil and whether our living environment is safe. For me, that is what I said in the budget; I will conclude quickly, Mr.... is making the Netherlands cleaner and safer a priority. That's never finished. We're gonna have to keep working on that with each other. I am also sure that the Chamber will keep me on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	It's almost every week with Chemours. There's trouble again! And then we don't even talk about the article about six toxic substances leaking. That raises the next question. If you see that something is constantly going wrong at Chemours, whether it is about emissions into the air and into the water, particles falling down or different substances leaking, shouldn't there really be a broad risk screening of the whole company and all the business processes taking place by the ILT? And should we not say that we, as a society, do not really know exactly what is happening in that business area and what impact this has on the environment, nature and the environment? We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would really like to see a broad risk screening through the ILT so that we know exactly what is happening and what risks there are, and look at the permit on the basis of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	I understand Mrs Kröger's question very well. I think that is something that comes to mind quite logically, but the competent authority is responsible for that. In the case of Chemours I am not but that is the province of South Holland. I am sure that they are following everything very closely, including what is said about it in this Chamber, and that Mrs Kröger's suggestion will certainly have been picked up. But it's up to the competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	I am not really surprised that the oral question by the VVD was mainly about entrepreneurs. But I have a very different question. The Secretary of State said that an official has indicated that he has been working on this case for two years and that he would like to do something else. I would like to make it clear to you that this plant has been dumping for almost 50 years and that the people around it have therefore been dealing with discharges for 50 years. I would therefore suggest that your official stays mainly on this file and that there may be some extra officials on it. And my question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	That was the question, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	No, the question's coming. This was my introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	No, no, no, no introductions. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	The question to the Secretary of State is: what is the Secretary of State going to do to come up with a plan to reassure residents? After drinking water...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	After drinking water also the soil. So what is this Secretary of State going to do to reassure residents and not just entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u20	The Secretary of State. And the question must be really short, no introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u21	I know Mr Laçin's commitment and I commend it. We must work together to ensure that the Netherlands is becoming cleaner and safer, and we must listen very carefully to the concerns of those living around. I have done a number of things in this area, such as extending the time limit for blood tests, precisely to meet those concerns of residents. That is quite right. I do not agree with Mr Laçin that the VVD only asked about the business side. She also specifically asked about the health side. One final comment on that official. Of course, I am not talking about civil servants here. It's all my responsibility. I just wanted to illustrate that this is something that the officials in the ministry have been working on for a long time. We take seriously all the points that come up here. I hope it won't be necessary at some point. That is the hope I expressed. It wasn't "the official" who said, "I want to do something different." It is my hope that at some point we will be off that file and that everyone knows that it has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u22	The Secretary of State said it was very annoying that something was wrong again. Mrs Kröger also said: apparently the problems are structural; we are really bumping from incident to incident. The Secretary of State said she wants more clarity. I don't just want more clarity. Above all, I want the problems to stop. What should we do now as a Chamber to make sure that these problems are in the past? Should we see if we can rescind or rescind the license? What should we do to prevent us from standing here again at the beginning of 2018 to talk about Chemours?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u23	It would be nice if you could solve all the problems with a magic wand, but the safety culture within that company is of course the most important in preventing problems. I think it is primarily up to the competent authority, and that is the province of South Holland, to make sure that all the permits of the company are in order and how else they can be put in order. And I am sure that the constant attention here in the Chamber for all these problems at Chemours will certainly give them the support they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-05-tweedekamer-2.u24	Thank you.
