ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u1	I see that Mr Van Rij wishes to speak. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask for a third deadline in the examination of the initiative proposal by Mr Schijns, Mr Recourt and Mr Van Oosten (33987), also on behalf of the co-rapporteur for the Van Rij and Mr Wezel motion. We want to table an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u3	It is clear: Mr Van Rij and Mrs Wezel are asking for a short third term. Can the House agree to that? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. The reason for tabling an amended motion is that in the original text of the motion the government was asked, after consulting the initiators, to examine the possibilities of meeting the objections, concerns and so on. On second thought, having obtained advice from the Registry, for which I am grateful, it has proved to me that this is not a proper wording from a constitutional point of view. The last thing the petitioners want is a debate on the right of initiative of the House of Representatives. That is why we propose in the amended motion that this request should not be made to the government, but to the initiators themselves. That's the reason. I would like, if I may, to give a very brief explanation of this amended motion. During the plenary session, it became clear that the legislative proposal has not yet been finalised: there are still a considerable number of shortcomings in the legal system, which I will not go into in detail. There are also a number of shortcomings in terms of legal certainty and feasibility. That is the reason for the proposers to table this motion. That's what I'm doing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u5	The Van Rij/Wezel motion (, letter) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are major concerns within the First Chamber as to the feasibility, legal certainty and legal systems arising from this initiative proposal;]] [[calls on the initiators to examine the possibilities of adapting the present initiative proposal, taking into account the concerns, concerns and wishes raised by the Court, and to inform the Chamber thereof;]] [[expresses the wish that the current legislative proposal should be kept under review until the aforementioned information has been received and discussed by the initiators,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33987-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have one last request. Could this motion be put to the vote first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u7	I see that there are no objections to this; the Chamber agrees with that. Does one of the other Members still wish to speak in a third term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u8	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the statement made by the co-author, Mr Van Rij. In the debate, concerns were expressed by the various parties about the legislative proposal. This motion calls on the initiators to amend the initiative law to the points indicated. I would like to mention a number of points of the SP. Perhaps that can be addressed. These include better information to the citizen. For example, a financial package leaflet can be considered in case of marriage and a choice between the community of goods and the limited community of goods. There is a desire that people also want to marry in the community of goods. A third point concerns the implementation of the Van Nispen motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u9	Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting because the motion for a resolution has yet to be distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u10	Are there any other Members who, now that they have the text of the motion before them, wish to speak in a third term? I note that this is not the case. Then, in the third term, the initiator, Mr Van Oosten, will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mr. Chairman. Once again, I would like to thank you for the invitation to be here in your home, particularly in the presence of my two co-initiators, Mrs Swinkels and Mr Recourt. It's an honor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u12	These days, your advisors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u13	Yes. You understand that I have some difficulty in saying that, but you fill it out for me. I would like to make the following comment on the amended motion tabled by Mr Van Rij, also on behalf of Mrs Wezel. In fact, we dealt with its predecessor last week. Although the operative part was slightly different, the scope of the motion was in fact the same. At that time, too, we rejected it. Why? Because it actually means that we, as initiators, are convinced that we can present this Chamber with a full legislative proposal to the best of our ability. We have also had two written rounds and an extensive plenary debate in this House. Of the points that Mrs Wezel specifically has put down, and which are concerned with insolvency and choice, we have laid down in our legislative proposal what we believe to be sensible. This means that, in response to the motion, and on behalf of my fellow Members, the advisers, I would simply like to say that we dissuade the motion as such and advise the Chamber to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-eerstekamer-7.u14	Mr. Chairman. It's a very short reaction. I also think that this is so neatly directed towards the initiator and his advisers in a formal sense, but I fully understand that in his view these are the co-initiators. In fact, I find the reaction very disappointing. The subjects have been discussed, but they have not been sufficiently discussed. Mr Van Oosten is actually calling on the Chamber to adopt a bill that has not yet been finalised. I'd like to leave it at that.
