ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	The Chamber is now speaking, starting with Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Well, Madam President, here they are. It has taken a while, as the Prime Minister quite rightly said, but then you also have something: no less than 24 ministers and State Secretary of the Rutte III cabinet. That's about the average of the average banana republic. Everyone and their mother got a job. Some ministries now even have two ministers. You have ministers of and you have ministers for. They actually call that part of the House "box-K." I have a better name: from now on let's call it "the planet Rutte," in their own solar system, a planet that has been sung away from the reality of millions of Dutch people, with their equal of half plus one. Look at them over there, Madam President, and have a look around. I see a couple of them laughing and a couple looking on their phones. Finally, they think to themselves, we sit on that coveted plush. Always neatly beaten, always got coffee for Halbe, always laughed at the jokes of Pechtold and now the reward for all that slavishness, led by the man there in the middle, Mark Rutte. The Netherlands knows him as the biggest political liar of the last ten years, but in trade-K he is the sun king, the boss of the planet. Mr. Chairman. On that planet, Rutte, they don't have much with democracy. A citizen like that, they find that difficult. That is why the second party of the Netherlands, the Party for Freedom, was out of play in advance. 1.5 million people were excluded; their opinion didn't matter. This applies not only to the opinion of the PVVs, but also to the referendum. The referendum is not only being abolished; if it is being held again, we have understood this morning that it is being held again, then no one on the planet Rutte will listen to it, as Mr Buma has assured. What a terrible arrogance. What a failure this cabinet and this quadruple coalition alone is: by ignoring the referendum in advance, which is simply written according to the still existing law. What a failure this cabinet has already become. It's already stuck in the mud before it drove away. So it is not, as Prime Minister Rutte just suggested, about what the citizen thinks, but about flat power. It's about the plush. It's about dividing up the nice jobs. From their cloud they look down there from the planet Rutte, to that real world, very far away, to a world they look down on, that they don't understand and they don't want to understand. Because in Mark Rutte's democracy, you don't have a voter but a voter. On that planet Rutte the ordinary Dutch are not invited at all. The laughing has been ruined for a while, because Prime Minister Rutte has been doing a professional puff squat on the wallet of so many Dutch people for years. Millions, millions of people squeezed out, stripped clean. People have often been brought to the brink of the abyss in recent years. Those who think that things are going well with Dutch people are wrong. Whoever thinks that people now benefit from economic growth, lives on another planet, in a fairy tale world. Mr. Chairman. The reality is that the Netherlands is in a deep crisis, a political crisis, a credible crisis, but above all an identity crisis. Our country was once the most beautiful country in the world, with its own borders, its own culture. We spent our money on our own people. There was decent care for our elders. And on the street you didn't stumble over headscarves or festering, sizzling Moroccans. We had a strong, stubborn and above all proud country. No fear of terror attacks. No corrupt immigrants in the police force. No one, no one got us killed. We were sovereign. We made our own decisions. We were in charge of our own country and our own borders. There were no mosques in our cities. The Netherlands was the Netherlands. And how different, Madam President, how different it is today. Oh, my God, our country has been horribly gibberish. What a waste of our interests. Many Dutch people have become strangers in their own country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	This ideal image of the past: what period is Mr Wilders talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	Well, at least the time before you were in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	So we'll talk about 20... Yeah, when I get the local...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	For about 1850.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr Wilders was very pleased with how we dealt with our elderly care before 1850. That is what you read in the booklets: how, as a widow, you were given a guilder at the church to get through the week with your children, how there was uncertainty in the country about the return of a foreign power, because Europe was heavily divided, and about social services. Yes, in Veenhuizen, where one of my great-great-great-grandfathers, who was a widower, was taken. That was the ideal image, Mr Wilders, when we still had our colony, Indonesia, with millions of Muslims in it, under our responsibility? Is it that image? Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	You're wrong. The image is the image of a Netherlands that was the Netherlands, which had not transferred its sovereignty to the European Union, which was still about its own money, which was in charge of its own budget, which itself was about its own borders and immigration policy, a country that decided who let it into its home and who did not. A strong country, a country in which no Islam had entered, a country in which we were proud of our own identity. Because of people like you, Mr Pechtold, you may be the biggest prototype of...............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, Mr President, you can see that it is important for history education in this country and in this cabinet to receive a great deal of attention. I am pleased that the Prime Minister himself, in his teachings of social studies, is passing on to the new generation, Mr Wilders, and I have not had the opportunity to have a lesson from a Prime Minister who is so incredibly important not to declare our identity and nationality to be some sort of unity of eternity. Because precisely because of the progress, precisely because of the change, precisely because you don't have to worry about entering the border anymore, but as a continent you can make agreements about it together, you can increase your prosperity. Mr President, it is true: it is always that Islam. It's that Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	Not for a second! Even!?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	Every time it's Mr. Wilders' Islam. But indeed, that country, including your ancestors, Indonesia, the largest Muslim country in the world, was then suppressed by us. Now, yes, we deal with faith in a different way around the world. But it's that change that makes us powerful. Just having a chance of a threat makes us powerful. I find Mr Wilders' worldview so bleak. It seems so hard to get to sleep at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	Islam is destroying us. The Islamisation of the Netherlands is not an improvement, as Mr Pechtold suggests. It is a retrograde step in all possible areas. I will make that clear now and in the rest of my text. As I said, many Dutch people have become strangers in their own country. We let that Islamic monster in. On the street, on the beach, in the cinema, during shopping evening, in the tram, everywhere in the Netherlands we suffer from those imported cultural enrichers. Parades of hundreds of "Allahoe akbar" screaming headscarves with Islamic flags in parades through our streets; recently, here around the corner in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. It is not possible to describe what happened to the Netherlands. The Netherlands cries, where it once laughed. And that invasion goes on and on, at our expense. We're financing our own downfall. So many Dutch feel excluded, feel powerless, feel unrepresented. They are angry because they have lost their country, their Netherlands. Because The Hague doesn't take their concerns seriously. Because they see that their world is very different from Mr Rutte's fine words. And now our country is going to be re-governed by people for whom the preservation of the Netherlands means nothing. Our identity is laughing! The black shadow of Islam is increasingly disappearing. Look at our three major cities: Rotterdam, Amsterdam and The Hague. Already, almost half of the population under 25 years of age is non-western immigrant. That usually means Muslim. "Mohammed" is now one of the most popular boy names in the Netherlands. Our country, our home base, that miracle that our ancestors have built up with blood, sweat and tears, is increasingly being given away. That's the practice. It's squandered. That is the reality. And we see it every day. Every day we see the misery that Islamization brings us. Thanks to half a century of sheer cowardice. Because, Madam President, those are the employers of the Netherlands: cowards. They're afraid to talk about it. The word "islam" does not occur once in the entire coalition agreement. And that whole Rutte III coalition does not solve this existential problem of our country either. It's only gonna get worse. The invasion continues. Under Rutte II and III we see an asylum influx of at least a quarter of a million people. And it's always priced in the Netherlands: whether you get a residence permit or not, but then you get as illegal free bed, bath and bread; and also the children's pardon remains. While our people have to pay blue to our care, it is free for asylum seekers. It's called "discrimination," Madam President. The Dutch are discriminated against. Also on the streets we can see what this cultural enrichment looks like by mass integration. Concrete blocks to prevent innocent families with children from being drooled to death and flattened. Open borders mean that we have to skulk. Many people are rightly afraid that their wives and daughters are being pulled off their bikes during shopping or on their way to school, are being spit on, robbed or perhaps even assaulted. This multi-criminal society also means that homosexuals are beaten up, that women on the streets are regularly called "cancer whore" for no reason, that a woman who walks around in certain neighborhoods without a headscarf is wild. There are markets in the Netherlands where only Arabic and Turkish are spoken. That is the reality of many people at home. The threat of terror is greater than ever. Throughout Europe we see attacks, from London to Barcelona, from Madrid to Brussels, from Berlin to Stockholm, from Paris to Manchester. And indeed, yesterday, last night Dutch time, in New York, a Muslim, screaming Allahoe akbar, killed eight innocent people, including a Belgian citizen. This almost makes me desperate, because in section K, the Prime Minister in particular, people are not listening. I ask you, Prime Minister, once again, how many innocent people must be killed before the quarter falls to you? Before it is understood that Islam and violence belong together and Islam will never integrate? If all over the world terrorists call Allahoe akbar, can't you insist that terror and Islam have nothing to do with each other? Stop that politically correct talk, wake up and free us from Islam!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	Counter-terrorism, police and defence are very important. Could Mr. Rutte, or could Mr. Wilders give us a statement...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	Now, don't insult me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	It's out of my mouth with respect, you know. Can Mr Wilders tell us how much his cabinet, Rutte I, cut back on defence? And how much does this cabinet invest in defense?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	That has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	That has nothing to do with it. We can invest in defense, and we want to, but the moment you keep your borders open, you can give a hundred million or billions to both intelligence and defense. I'm not saying this shouldn't happen, but it's carrying water to the sea if you a. doesn't recognize that Islam is the problem and b. leaves your boundaries wide open. It's pointless if you keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr Wilders, of course, turns away from the question. The cabinet that he supported, the cabinet that he co-founded, the difficult times that he was in, has cut more than a billion dollars. This cabinet invests more than one and a half billion dollars in our security. Then you can put on big pants. Then you may have a big mouth, but the facts, Mr. Wilders I'm a little old-fashioned, but in politics I still like being that you accept cuts in our security while this cabinet invests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	No, we're also investing over a billion dollars in defense. So do we. I will also come up with concrete proposals on this later. It was already in our election program. That was a whole A4. You should have been able to read that without getting too tired. So that's the money we spend on it. Again, I'm making my point. Of course, it is important that we invest extra in defence. The PVV wants that, and the PVV does. We also want to invest extra in the police, more than that poor 200 million or 300 million invested in this cabinet. But if you don't recognize the problems, if you don't mention the word "Islamic" once in your coalition agreement, if you leave the borders wide open so that every terrorist can just enter the Netherlands, it's useless money spent. Protect the Dutch by closing the borders for this kind of people. That's what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	The fight against terrorism and extremism can only be won if we unite all good forces. What Mr Wilders is doing here is excluding everyone named Mohammed, Dutch people just like Mr Wilders and me, everyone with a different background, from that fight. That way, he's never gonna win. In the Netherlands people work in the care of the police, in the armed forces, who are prepared to risk their lives every day, not only for our freedom but also for Mr Wilders. He wipes this away with great ease. While he has spent twenty or twenty-five years fetching others here, the ordinary Dutch people with a Muslim background are working in the fight against hatred, intolerance and terror with us. What they deserve is not just another sweep out of Wilders' pan, but a compliment. Not only a compliment, but also an apology from Wilders' mouth would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	Well, if I'm sorry, it's only for what you just said, because I've been telling the truth. And that is very painful, especially for a social democrat, for a movement that, as far as it still exists, has been responsible for those open borders in recent decades; let everyone in, because that is what you have done. You and your movement, social democracy, have let everyone from half Africa in over the past decades, without making one demand for integration or assimilation. You left that behind. Because of people like you and your movement, we're in trouble now, we're in trouble now. You should look in the mirror and apologize to the whole of the Netherlands. That's what you should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	Predictability is also a force of Mr Wilders. Always at the slightest reproach, in a serious question, he points to others. Now he points to Social Democrats with a joke, but he always points to someone else. And that's the constant. We will only go on in this country, and that is what must happen if we unite forces, if Mr Wilders would acknowledge that among all those Dutch people there are people who work for the common good every day, so that if he is sick there will be a doctor or a nurse who may be Muslim, so that if he is in danger, he will be protected by Dutch people, just like him and me, who are working for the common good. Those Dutch, all those Dutch, also deserve representation. They do not deserve to be thrown away with such ease as Mr Wilders does every day. Not a single contribution to a solution but twenty years of blame to others. There is no doubt that much more will be added in the rest of his speech. There's a new crew over there. People who deserve the benefit of the doubt. We have already heard on Twitter that because of their background, their passports, their statements in the past, they do not get that chance. This symbolizes the way Wilders looks at the Netherlands. In 2006, he did it. The Moroccan government had a mole here because Aboutaleb became Secretary of State. In the meantime, he has been the mayor of the second city of the Netherlands for eight years. Wilders, if there's any excuses, they're yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	Well, that interruption didn't get much better. Anyway, I understand that now there's another theme...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	This is always the same with Mr Wilders. No lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	I thought I was speaking now, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	It's about dual citizenship now, I understand. We are very consistent in this. We believe that whatever dual nationality you have, whether Moroccan, Swedish or perhaps even, I have heard the other day, is Croatian, you should not have a public office in parliament or government. Australia knows that system. I read in the newspaper this morning that the President of the Australian Senate, Australia, is not an indecent country, after all, has resigned because that person also has New Zealand nationality. Last week we saw a Deputy Prime Minister resign in Australia because she was also British. It is quite normal in other countries that when you fulfil a political function, I am talking about political functions, administrative functions and parliamentary functions, you do not have any appearance of double loyalty. That was my argument last time with Mrs Van Zanten and others of Moroccan origin, and it still is. If you are a Dutch MP, if you are in the Dutch Parliament or the Dutch Government, then you only have the Dutch interests to serve and you do not have a dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	Always looking at someone's background, always looking at passports, always looking at a story around it and not at the actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	You're not listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	That's the common denominator. Those who are committed to this country, who are willing to spend sleepless nights for the sake of national interests, will first of all be distrusted by Mr Wilders. And that's not gonna get us anywhere. If there is any suspicion, be a man, submit that motion and then we have the vote and that ritual has been again. Just so we're clear, there won't be a motion of censure this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	Well, you'll see. Motions we always submit in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	Well, that's a new one for Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	One of my questions to the Prime Minister is who has a dual nationality. And they all get a wonderful motion of censure on their pants. Absolutely. And if you want, you can sign in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	See, I told you, predictability.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u36	It is an answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u37	It's flat as a dime. It's not about anything. The Prime Minister doesn't have to answer at all. Wilders already knows. Whatever these people are gonna do, he doesn't trust them. Whatever Muhammad does in the care, in the army and in the police, Wilders doesn't trust him. You need to look in the mirror.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u38	No, it's not about "don't trust them." That's every truth in the world. Nobody says I don't trust Mrs. Ollongren, for example. When it comes to having a double nationality, I'm consistent. The world would be too small if I had done this to Moroccan rulers and not to people who also have Swedish nationality. I'm consistent. I say: if you are a Dutch parliamentarians or a member of the government, you have only one interest to serve. Then you must avoid the appearance of double loyalty. Then you can only be Dutch, just like Australia does. The sooner we introduce it, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u39	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u40	But trust is like pregnant: whether someone is pregnant or not. Either you trust someone or you don't. If you file a motion of censure, you don't trust him. So what's it gonna be, Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yeah, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u42	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u43	So you trust this ruler and you're filing a motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u44	So I don't think you should sit in a cabinet with a double-loyalty appearance and not sit in a chamber. Then I'll send you away. Yeah, I'm gonna try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u45	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u46	To quote Mr Wilders, this is not how things get better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u47	Well, that's how it gets a hundred thousand times better, because I wish we didn't have people of Turkish, Moroccan or Swedish nationality here in the Chamber or in the government. This is the damn Dutch Parliament! And here you must be Dutch! And only being Dutch. I don't want Turks, Moroccans or Sweden in this house. Can't I say that? This is my country!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u48	Five years ago, I believe, a motion of censure had been tabled after 15 minutes. The profit now is that today it goes to the second term. That's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u49	Nice joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u50	I would like to continue with what Mr Wilders referred to, namely attacks, security and the fight against terror. The Prime Minister also rightly started with a reference to what happened yesterday in New York. We know that an attack can also take place in the Netherlands. That is a danger, an evil that we must arm ourselves against. We must use every means to counter this. I am now going back to about 15 minutes ago when Mr Wilders started referring to a possible referendum. That referendum is about the Intelligence and Security Services Act. Our security services, the security services that Mr Wilders and we depend on and on which our security depends, say about that law: "We need that law. We need to be able to see whether there are people with evil plans and whether there are people who want to attack. We need that law. We need to be able to control the cable." Mr Wilders and the PVV voted in favour of that law. In the end, with similar criticisms and considerations, we also voted in favour of that law, because the security services need it. If Mr Wilders says that if there is a referendum and 55% say no, that law will be abolished and then we will take away that power from the intelligence services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u51	Before I go into that question, I would like to say a few words about Mr Segers' response. That point has been bothering me ever since I read the coalition agreement. I find it incomprehensible that he, the representative, the leader of a Christian party, has ensured and accepted that the word 'Islamic' does not appear once in the coalition agreement. Mr Segers, your big mouth about terror can be put in your pocket in the future. You are abandoning Christians tremendously with this. It wasn't even mentioned once, you didn't even get a small sentence about it, there isn't even talk about Christians being persecuted by Muslims or anything. You didn't get anything done. You have denied, abandoned, sold for the plush. That's what you did. All right, Mr President, now for the answer to the question. We are in favour of the so-called drag law and indeed voted in favour of it, but we are very much in favour of the referendum. Although we were against that law, and did so with conviction; I am not going to run away from it if in a referendum the majority of the population says that the drag law should not be there, then we are not going to have that law, because that is what the people want at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u52	First of all, the first point. The fight is not against Islam, the fight is against terrorism, against jihadism. And that's on several pages. I admit that it is a rather heavy coalition agreement, it is not a small one, but the battle is being stepped up. It's not gonna be any less, it's gonna be more. We are taking additional measures to this end. The intelligence services indicate that they should also be able to monitor the cable. Why? Because that's where people communicate who only want one thing: to sow death and destruction. That's terror sowing. That's attacking here. We need to be able to check the cable. If there is an attack and that law has been repealed and the intelligence services have taken that power, then Mr Wilders will have to justify that he has removed this power from security services. And then all these big words about the fight against terror and the fight for security will come out in a completely different light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u53	No, they're not gonna be in any other day's light. No other daylight at all! You will have to explain why you again ignore the voter's voice when you say about a referendum: you may find that, Dutch people, but I give you a big middle finger. The same middle finger you give to Christians in the Netherlands by not having a word about Islam in the coalition agreement despite your fine words. And Islam, Mr Segers, when Islam gets its way, the Christians in this country are the first to die, the first to be sacrificed. And by not calling that... From the VVD, the CDA and so you can expect that a bit, but from a Christian party! You have, as it were, unchristized your party by cooperating in this coalition agreement. And that's very bad. Very sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u54	This time I hear a little applause from the benches of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u55	Okay, give it a little harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u56	We have a word for that: cadaver discipline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u57	It's not good soon, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u58	You still have them well in hand. Yeah, until one of them walks away. Anyway!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u59	Well, if one of them walks away from you, we don't have a cabinet anymore. And that's much worse. That's Mr Voordewind. That's the next one to run away, watch me!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u60	No, no. Mr Voordewind sits next to me and sits next to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u61	Look, that's discipline!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u62	In good friendship. You're walking away from the point I'm bringing in here. It's very easy to say to me, "Well, you're denying your people." We stand up for religious freedom. In the coalition agreement, you can see that this cabinet identifies religious freedom as one of the pillars, also for foreign policy. We stand up for minorities in the Middle East. We stand up for fair migration policy. We are stepping up the fight against terror, against jihadism. That comes back on several pages. We take this extremely seriously. So serious that now that we are actually moving towards a referendum and entering into the debate with the people. My first task will be to explain to all the questions that we had, which you also had, which ultimately lead us to vote for that law: privacy is an incredibly important value and we must weigh them against the value of security and freedom that is worth a great deal. If the intelligence services say to you and to me 'we need this power', then I think it is a great responsibility to put that security and freedom in the hands of, say, 55% and say, whatever the outcome, we will take it over. I would still like to say to you: weigh that down independently, see what that freedom and security needs and if that is such a law, then we must have such a law and then you must defend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u63	No, when we do not carry out a valid referendum by the majority of the Dutch population, we come close to half a dictatorship. We have not created this for nothing. There has been a majority here who has made a law and who says, okay, it was still advisory, not binding, that we come with a referendum. If you take this seriously, and we take it seriously, I am very much in favour of a binding referendum with my group, and I think that you should do the same. If you then want to tackle the terror, I would have hoped to find you on my side, not only by naming Islam but also by closing our borders, by de-Islamicising the Netherlands. Why don't you support me in phasing out the mosques in the Netherlands? Why don't you support me in that? While I think that a large part of your voters, the Christian Union voters, are deeply concerned about the Islamization of the Netherlands, and that they prefer to see more churches than mosques. Where are you, Mr Segers? You are on a Christian holiday, but somewhere far away, where you can no longer spell the word. And that's bad. That is bad for the Netherlands, it is bad for your people. If you want us to tackle terror hard together, then you will have to come to terms with supporting the de-Islamicisation of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u64	Madam President. I am in favour of religious freedom and against jihadism. And that is why the cabinet is pursuing the policy it is pursuing. If there is a serious attack going on and the intelligence services say 'we should have had that power and we could not have prevented it', then Mr Wilders has a lot to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u65	Those who have a lot of explaining to do, Madam President, in particular to his own constituency, I cannot repeat it enough; Mr Segers is Mr Segers. Because the moment you don't make the analysis what it's about... Again, it just hurts that I have to say this to a spokesperson of a Christian party: Islam is not a religion like Christianity. Do I have to explain to you that Islam is not comparable to Christianity? You can talk to your colleague now, but I'm addressing you now. How is it possible that I have to explain to the spokesman, the President of the Christian Union, that Islam and Christianity have nothing in common? That Christianity is indeed a religion but that Islam is a totalitarian, violent ideology, which you cannot abandon, unlike Christianity? If you leave Islam, there's a death sentence on it. That makes it an ideology and not a religion. Why do I have to explain that to you? You disappoint so many Christians in the Netherlands, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u66	In this country Geert Wilders does not decide who is Dutch and who is not. In this country, our Constitution determines who is Dutch and who is not. And now there are a lot of people living in this country with a double nationality, there are hundreds of thousands of people living in this country with a double nationality. Wilders goes wild, just like in 2006 opposite Albayrak and Aboutaleb. He went wild in front of you, Madam President. He's doing that again now. A double nationality doesn't say anything about anyone's loyalty. That loyalty depends on actual perceptible behavior. I would like to ask Mr Wilders what form of behavior you have found in Mrs Ollongren on the basis of which you doubt her loyalty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u67	No, I didn't question her loyalty. I'm saying that with a dual nationality, you have the appearance of double loyalty. I made a proposal on this a number of years ago. By the way, it was not only against people of Moroccan and Turkish origin. I made the same point against Mrs Van Zanten........................................................................................................................................................................................... For example, there are certain rules in Turkish law. That's what I mentioned back then. Turkish law says that if a Turk is abroad critical of, for example, the Armenian genocide, the sentence will be increased by a third or a quarter. In Turkey's example, that means that, if you are a Turk and you are also a Dutchman and you speak out, you won't do that soon, but suppose you would do so against the Armenian genocide, you will be more punishable in Turkey than a Turkish citizen who is not a Dutchman. In other words, it creates obligations. There are certain extra penalties. I'm saying, you have to stop people from thinking that they're gonna take that into account. We're here in Holland. We're here in our fucking parliament. The Dutch rules apply here. Here you should only have one nationality if you want a public position. If you have a dual nationality, you are not unreliable, but with that you have the appearance of a double loyalty loaded on you. And I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u68	When one speaks of "appearance of double loyalty," there is doubt. It is clear that Mr Wilders is doing so. When it comes to Mrs Ollongren, he cannot give a single example on the basis of which he doubts her loyalty. But there is that doubt with Mr Wilders. Mr Wilders spent more time at the Israeli embassy than at home in the past. Mr Wilders had contacts with Israeli rulers who even went so far that the AIVD had the need to investigate that. Mr Markuszower, who is in this Parliament, in the PVV Group, was even given extra consideration. There were doubts about his integrity and the state security of our Parliament if he were to enter parliament. I wonder whose loyalty we should doubt if Mr Wilders behaves like the long arm of the Israeli government. There are now robberies on the benches, but those who do so are a little less than those servants in the Wilders' Box.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u69	Still, it sounded pretty impressive. Anyway, Mr. Chairman, I've already answered the question. I won't give you the same answer again. I am not saying that Mrs Ollongren would be wrong or unreliable. I say, as I said earlier with all the other ministers and MPs, that the appearance of double loyalty must be avoided. Again, I'm not making it up. It does happen in Australia. In Australia, two rulers have resigned for having a double nationality. It is perfectly normal that when you are in a parliament or in the Dutch government you only serve those interests, that there is no appearance of serving double interests and that you only have a Dutch passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u70	Mr Wilders is not only acting as the long arm of the Israeli Government. He also gets a lot of money from all kinds of xenophobic and racist clubs from the United States. The David Horowitz Freedom Center gives a lot of money to the PVV. I'd say leave those people alone, give that money back to the David Horowitz Freedom Center and stop acting like the long arm of the Israeli government, instead of accusing all those double-nationals of double-loyalty. 'Cause if you carry on like this... There is Mr Baudet. He takes a seat from you every week. It won't be long before you leave Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u71	I can mostly eat them off the VVD! In addition, the point is that a dual nationality is not just about the appearance of double loyalty. It is also a question of the fact that from the moment someone with a double passport comes into the government or into the cabinet, he should not only serve the Netherlands but is still subject to the jurisdiction of another country because of that passport. That is a very good reason to oppose a double passport for rulers. That is why we will support Mr Wilders' motion of censure, not because of the appearance of double loyalty, but because you are subject to the jurisdiction of another country. That should not be possible if you have to serve the Netherlands. Professor of State Law Twan Tak of the University of Maastricht has written extensively about this. He claims that this is a state-law thing that shouldn't be possible. That has nothing to do with the idea of loyalty. It's strictly state law, because you're subject to a foreign state power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u72	Yes, Mr. Chairman, that's right, too. What I am saying is true, because the appearance of double loyalty is indeed relevant, but what Mr Baudet says is correct. I myself mentioned the example of the Turkish law on Armenian genocide. That indeed leads to another rule of law that applies to you, but that at least makes you seem against saying things or not saying them for a certain reason that has nothing to do with your own country. I thank Mr Baudet for his support. We are a small step closer to a majority this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u73	Hope brings life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u74	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. I almost heard Mr Wilders screaming: this is my country!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u76	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u77	But this is the land of Arib, this is the land of Azmani, this is the land of Mrs Ollongren, this is the land of Klaver, this is our country, Mr Wilders. Dutchmanship is not in your blood, Dutchmanship is in your heart, in how you deal with this country, with what you do here and what that all means. Having said that, I've heard a grayened album for 45 minutes now, but the jeu is a bit off, although there is a bit of a refreshment. I've been listening to the same greyened album for 45 minutes now, but I haven't heard about the care. I haven't heard about the VAT increase. I haven't heard about the tax rebates to large companies. I didn't hear about the housing problems in this country. When I walk on the market and talk to people there, it often starts with Islam, whatever you're talking about; 30 seconds, a minute at most. Then it is about the problems that people encounter day in, day out, problems that we have to come up with solutions for. What are your solutions, Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I see "24" here, but I think I've only spoken for six minutes. After that, I'm constantly interrupted, so that's all gonna happen. Don't worry, Mr Klaver, but I will begin any debate with Islam on which I will continue to do so, every minute because that problem is an existential problem for the Netherlands. It's the biggest problem we have. It's losing our country. I find it appalling that this cabinet has not yet given a word or a letter to that effect. This is indeed our country. The Netherlands is not an Islamic country. If we continue like this, it will be at the end of this century. I don't want to. So I'll always start with that. The more that's ignored, the longer I'll talk about it, until it gets through to your brain pan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u79	I love that about Geert Wilders. I like what is behind his pleas about the concerns he has about society, for example when he talks about sizzling on the streets or how women are being treated. That has everything to do with decency. I think that is so good because Mr Wilders sets an example in this respect, in how he addresses his colleagues and how he tries to keep it decent here in Parliament. I asked him a question, but I can't get an answer. I asked him what he's doing about all these problems people are having. They are worried about groceries that are becoming more expensive. They can't find a house. What happens to the care? What are you gonna do about it? I hear you talking for 45 minutes, but your biggest plea is constantly about Islam. I ask you now: what are your answers for these people? What are you gonna do about it? I challenge you: how?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u80	GroenLinks' colleague is really making a complete fool of himself. You can't actually be much more ridiculous than you are right now. I have just told you that I have spoken for six minutes and that the part of my text on the social economy is still coming. I do that at my own time and in my own way. If you hadn't interrupted me, I'd have gone through it by now. You can do all that, but I'm going to continue with my lines now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u81	You can come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr President, I think you are talking about who is going to continue with the text at what point. But, Mr Wilders, the way in which you are debating here again, how you are against the new cabinet, the way in which you are attacking directors on their individuals, you are even putting photos of family members on Twitter, which goes beyond any line of decency. When I ask you what specific things you are talking about when it comes to the major problems in this country, the socio-economic problems...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's the third time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u84	...all you're gonna say is that it's still coming. The fact that you are waiting so long, the fact that you are not answering the question I am now asking, is significant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u85	The fact that I'm waiting so long? I've been interrupted for an hour!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u86	And rightly so, Mr. Chairman. This is not a gray-turned record. This is much worse. What's happening here is much worse. The whole Chamber is concerned about the people who, for whatever reason, think about using force to hurt another person. Every member here in the Chamber tries to come up with solutions to prevent people from radicalising. What Mr Wilders is doing is ignoring anyone who was not born here and saying that he is a second-class citizen. People who are not born here, who stand in front of the classroom with soul and salvation, who work in this building, who are nurses, who apparently no longer count at once and are a danger to society. I do not have a question for Mr Wilders, I just have a comment for the whole of the Netherlands: fortunately, most parties here in the Chamber do not participate in this discrimination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr President, if anyone in the Netherlands is discriminated against, it is the Dutch! Then it's the Dutch. It is Mr Roemer's party, for all intents and purposes, who has always contributed to the open borders and brought it to the Netherlands. A former colleague of his, Mrs Gesthuizen, almost got herself arrested in front of a police station once again because she wanted to release a particular asylum seeker or something like that. Your party stands for more asylum, for more influx, and all that money we give to asylum, Mr Roemer, we cannot give to care. It can't be! So you're the one who needs to think this through, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u88	Madam President, my party stands for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u89	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u90	We judge people by what they do. We judge people by what they perform in society, not where they were born and what they look like. It is called discrimination and racism, and my party, with me first, will fight against discrimination and racism every day that we are here and you will fight against them all because they are born somewhere else or they look different than you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr President, this is complete nonsense again. We don't discriminate against anyone. We're not shaving anyone on the same page. I can see how it sounds, "everyone's on the same page," but we don't do that. We never did, not even with the rulers. We say: with a dual nationality you have the appearance of double loyalties and in the Dutch Parliament you really only need one passport. Once again, Madam President, Mr Roemer's party, the SP, has in recent years been partly responsible for the fact that we have had 250 000, or how many, asylum seekers here. You've only pleaded for more general pardon. It was caterpillar-never-satisfied when it came to bringing people here! And do you know what that means? I will come back to that later in my text: that those people got everything for free, Mr Roemer, because of you! They got free care. They didn't have to pay their own risk. They took precedence over rentals. And do you know at the expense of who? At the expense of that SP-thumb! And therefore, while the Labour Party of, what is it, 39 to 9 seats, you have won nothing and even lost! You didn't get any of that because you made the wrong choice. You have to look in the mirror! If you'll just carry on... Well, let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u92	However, I would like to say a few words about the dual nationality of which you make a point. Let me get this straight. It is a matter of principle for you, and that is why you deal with the dual nationality of Mrs Ollongren, for example, Dutch-Swedish, in exactly the same way as at the time with the dual nationality of Mrs Veldhuijzen van Zanten, also Dutch and Swedish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u93	I won't just ask them to turn in nationality. I shall now refer to the Chamber the statement that they do not belong in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u94	Soon, what's a very small difference in this. I don't know if the listener should hear that. You say: I'm not going to ask her to turn in her nationality, but I'm going to ask her to please not sit in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u95	Well, there she is. But I want her out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u96	But then the whole story doesn't make sense that it's a matter of principle on which you always table motions of censure that it's never allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u97	No, I'm gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u98	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u99	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u100	A matter of principle is that you always have the same point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u101	No, a matter of principle is that I do not think a person of dual nationality should be in a cabinet. And after four years, where I first asked other rulers, the measure is now full. I'm not going after five years... My views and those of the PVV are well known. No matter how long this cabinet sits, for all Cabinets afterwards you will be able to leave as far as we are concerned if you have a double nationality in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u102	Now I was there and I remember how that went. You did want to table a motion of censure, but you are not at all so principled. Because at that moment you were a very small man, you tolerated a cabinet. And in fact, at the time, I remember, you felt more annoying at the start of that cabinet than the principle of a motion of censure. That is the reason, the only reason and the honest reason why you did not then table a motion of censure. If you're a hero, you say, "What I did then, I'm doing now."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u103	No, I'm a hero thank you for that, but that's not the reason. We have said before, as I have just indicated to you, that we have asked for it to be done. We are now a number of years on, we are also working on an initiative proposal on this, which I hope to be able to submit quickly. That means at the moment, unlike years ago: if someone with a dual nationality is in the cabinet, it is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u104	This is a completely different story from you five minutes ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u105	Exactly the same story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u106	... held, when you had a big story about double loyalty, which is never possible in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u107	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u108	And now all of a sudden you're saying, "Yeah, that's when it could be..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u109	No, it couldn't have been then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u110	...but it's so much later now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u111	It couldn't have been then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u112	Then you could, because you didn't table a motion of censure when the Minister didn't leave. So you're contradicting yourself. And the worst part is, I know why. Because that little man was so annoying at the time that the cabinet would get angry. That's Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u113	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u114	I would like to give the floor to Mr Pechtold, because he would like to continue on this point. I've got another point to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u115	Oh? Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u116	We are with Mr Wilders the historiography, now not from around 1850, but just from the past few years. Balkenende IV, Moroccan and a Turkish passport, those were two motions of mistrust. Rutte III a Swedish passport, which will be a motion of censure. But I have Mr Wilders' motion here at Rutte I. It simply says: "Is it really very sweet to ask the Secretary of State to give up her dual nationality?" Oh, goss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u117	Sure. And we're past that phase now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u118	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u119	Yeah, it's that simple. You can like it or not...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u120	Yes. Could it happen a bit like flip-flop-flip-flop to people who think: our leader, that's a man with vision and he blows straight on with his principles? Unless it's not a good time. But let's get serious. If we take everyone's measure, we can't have double nationality in official posts. Queen Maxima. Turn in your passport, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u121	Yes, Mr President, I agreed before the debate with Mr Buma that he would do Queen Maxima and I would do the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u122	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u123	No, I'll give you a serious answer. I'm gonna give you a serious answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u124	This is about people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u125	I refer to Mr Buma, who said earlier this year that he felt that Queen Maxima should not have Dutch nationality. And I will tell you that I would share that view when she would be head of state. We've been appointed here, we have a constitutional function. For the King, our King, I would have said the same thing, surely. For our queen who, not disrespectfully meant, has more of a ceremonial function, which is not head of state, which also has no constitutional function in it, that is not true, as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u126	This story also rages on all sides. With the previous queen I have never heard Mr Wilders speak of this, not in all his years here in this Parliament. He's been here for many years more than I've been here. If we look at state law, the current queen, while the Crown Princess is still a minor, let's avoid it, could become regents. It's official even possible that she'll be head of state. What I want to demonstrate is that the royal family cannot defend itself, while ministers and MPs can defend themselves. We will, and we will continue to repeat it. But there are a lot of people in this country who time and time again don't experience that gray album of yours as a gray album anymore, but as a continuous attack on the commitment they make day in and day out for this country, just like you, like me. That, Mr Wilders, is discrimination, and it must be appointed and condemned again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u127	It has nothing to do with discrimination. We have a problem with Islam in this country. We want to de-islamize the Netherlands. Because of all the people with your support, I said that just now Mr Roemer has come into the Netherlands, it is the Dutch who is being discriminated against. The Dutchman must pay for his care, while the asylum seeker gets it for nothing. The Dutchman can't find a rental house, because the asylum seeker gets that social housing priority. The Dutchman is discriminated against. Why is no one in this room talking about that? The discrimination is towards the Dutch and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u128	Today, The Lancet published an interesting article, which states that climate change drives 1 billion refugees. Is it not also in the interests of Mr Wilders with his party programme to think about how to combat the causes of this migration rather than just trying to stop people from coming to the Netherlands through dense borders? Is it not time to think about this and use all the means to prevent people from drifting away from poverty or climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u129	The problem with the Netherlands is not that we have a moving desert, but that there is a moving desert ideology that is coming this way. That is our problem and that is the cause of the misery. I want us to defend ourselves against this and I do not want to depend on a Europe where we have nothing to say, where we depend on the whims of someone like the German Bundeskanzlerin Mrs Merkel, who said: 'Wir purchase tie'. And who, after the elections, still believes that hundreds of thousands of people should come in. I don't care why people come. I don't want them here. I was elected, not to solve the problems in Africa, but to ensure that the Dutchman is protected from mass immigration of people with desert ideology. We must prevent that, and that is what we are committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u130	On the contrary, we have every interest in looking at our own behaviour, resulting in climate change. If we tackle this, we can also prevent people from migrating to countries like the Netherlands. Does Mr Wilders not think that we should take a good look at that? You can see, for example, that people from the Middle East are being expelled there because there is a commodity war. In fact, that is often at the heart of many conflicts in those areas. It seems to be a religious conflict, but ultimately it is about poverty and the lack of raw materials. Is it not very important that we look at our own behaviour, our own exports and our own trade policy in order to prevent migration from taking off?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u131	No, I think we should look at how we are protecting the Netherlands from the mass immigration that will only get worse. People come because we have our borders wide open and people come because they get free care, a free home and a free benefit. People come because they know that if that is not the case in the Netherlands, if they do not get it, they get a price, namely bed, bath and bread for illegal immigrants. I think we are about the only country in Europe that gives bed, bath and bread from the government to illegal immigrants, people who have been told by the judge that they have to leave and that they have no right to be here. Because we all do and say "come in all of us," and we all give this at the expense of the Dutchman, that's why the people come here. That doesn't have anything to do with the climate. It has nothing to do with the climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u132	Of course, it is fine if Mr Wilders himself is going to come up with statements about why people come to the Netherlands or other Western countries, but it is very important to see what the real reasons are. A lot of research has been done on that. It is important for Mr Wilders to come here with me on the basis of facts to see how we can prevent problems, rather than on the basis of an opinion or a feeling that Mr Wilders has.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u133	In my opinion, the first refugee to come to the Netherlands must still be born and, if the IND asks why he is applying for asylum, he says: because of the climate. I don't think so, but okay. Mr. Chairman. I told you, they want to kill us, they want to subject us and they want to destroy what we've built. As many as 11% of Muslims in the Netherlands are willing to use violence for Islam, according to research by the University of Amsterdam. That's 110,000 people. That's twice the size of the Dutch army. Those 110,000 people are everywhere. They might live around the corner or they'll hang out at the supermarket near you. They pass your children's schools or they might be on the train with you in the morning or in the afternoon. Maybe there is one here in the plenary. Who knows? Intelligence services in Europe already have tens of thousands of jihadists in their sights. Those are often homegrown radical Muslims, but there are thousands of jihadgoers all over Europe who return from Syria. We'll just let them come back! We'll just let them come back! In Syria, Iraq and other areas where they come from, they have learned professionally how to kill, how to torture, how to rape. They are all jihadists and terrorists who, thanks to Schengen and the open borders of the VVD, can murder and travel freely throughout Europe. The question that many people have is: how does the planet Rutte react to that? Well, that planet Rutte is setting up Mr. Grapperhaus. Mr. Grapperhaus, that's where he gets the crucial position of Minister of Justice. He's the man who deals with the safety of our children and grandchildren. And what does that tell you to go astray now? What's that Grapperhaus saying now? He thinks in his own blog that we should just let jihadists come back to the Netherlands. He believes that we should enter into dialogue with them and give them mercy after their punishment. I repeat, let jihadists come back, talk to them and mercy. That is our line of defence when it comes to what he actually thinks, because Mr.Grapperhaus said: I support my words; I still support my words from then on. That is how we behave after 1,400 years of jihad. We didn't learn anything. This is a Netherlands that has signed the capitulation and that says: "Here is our country. We don't want to take care of it anymore. Good luck with that, Ali, Mohammed, Yassar. Do it. Here it is!" That's the message he's giving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u134	Let me see if this point is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u135	No, I have one more point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u136	Then I suggest we finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u137	Let what I just said about Mr. Grapperhaus affect you. I also ask the people at home who are watching television. A person who is responsible for the safety of your people at home is in reality a danger to the Netherlands because of his ideas. Grapperhaus as Minister of Justice is like making Harvey Weinstein Minister for Women's Emancipation. That's what happens. At least my party knows no mercy. If you want to have a nice conversation with jihadists, you don't belong in a cabinet. So tomorrow, with pleasure and conviction on our part, he too will be getting a vote of confidence from my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mr Wilders always presents himself as the guardian or defender of freedom of speech. He did so recently in the hearing he had after making his discriminatory remark about fewer Moroccans. Mr Grapperhaus also has an opinion. I would like to ask Mr Wilders where freedom of expression for Mr Grapperhuis remains. And where is the freedom of the press? It was a column. Is it not incredibly hypocritical of Mr Wilders to want to make use of freedom of expression himself while he does not allow another, in this case Mr Grapperhaus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u139	I would like to extend my warmest thanks to Mr Grapperhaus. I'm not gonna press charges against him either. He can find what he wants with pleasure even. My point isn't that he can't say what he thinks. My point is that you have someone who finds something like this, although he may now be pursuing another policy, someone who says that he is still behind his words from then on in that column, someone who thinks that we should let jihadists return to the Netherlands, that we should talk to them and that we should give that mercy, not make the political boss of the fight against terror in the Netherlands. That is unwise, it is clumsy and it is dangerous. He has thus himself become a danger to our national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u140	What is actually happening is that Mr Wilders says that Mr Grapperhaus must disappear from the political stage because of his opinion and because he is a danger to the country. It is also typical Wilders to use that double size. Because when we talk about the danger in the Netherlands, I also look in the ranks of the PVV. In an article, Mr De Roon, MP for the PVV, says that we must replace the democratic rule of law with military violence. I can hand it all over to you. We have Mr Wilders' speech writer, Mr Belien, who states that Muslims are predators and that we must arm ourselves. Just, like, real guns. We have Mr Wilders' press officer, who states that Mussolini, the fascist leader in Italy at the time of World War II, is the largest head of state ever. And I have just given the example of Mr Markuszower. Is the danger in the Netherlands with Mr Grapperhaus because he has an opinion or is it within the ranks of the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u141	No, it's not in our ranks. On the contrary. As I said, we strongly support freedom of expression. He's not here at all. Again, I'm not going to the police to press charges. I'm just saying that anyone who thinks that shouldn't be the boss of the fight against terror. So get out of here! I want someone at Justice who says you're not coming back from Syria, but if you do come back somehow, we'll put you right away, if necessary with administrative detention. I want a Minister of Justice to take care of the safety of Dutch families. That's what I want. At the moment, we see all over Europe that returners are committing attacks. We have seen this in Paris, in Berlin and in many other cities in Europe, where attacks have taken place, where innocent people have been victims of people returning and returning from Syria and who have not been imprisoned after their return. Well, there's someone there who actually wants to. That's not possible for our country, is it? That's dangerous!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u142	It is also very typical that when a number of substantiated examples are given of dangers within one's own ranks, Mr Wilders will again point to others in society. Then again it is the Muslims, Islam, and then again it is the Poles, then it is this cabinet that puts the Netherlands at risk and then it is quite another thing. We'll probably go on like this for a while. The danger to the Netherlands is nowhere but there, in that profession, the profession of Geert's servants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u143	Okay, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u144	I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u145	I'll be sure to. Our identity is getting more and more under pressure. How long is the Netherlands our country? The truth about demographic developments in Europe and Africa is too horrific for words. I hope people are paying attention. Europe's population is shrinking, but Africa's population is exploding. At the end of this century, it has quadrupled. Africa goes from 1 billion to 4 billion inhabitants at the end of this century. Often these are people of Islamic descent. At least a third of those 4 billion want to leave Africa. I will not be surprised if they want to go to Europe, to us, to the country that has planet Rutte on offer. What if we don't do anything about it? Can you imagine 4 billion Africans, one third of whom, more than a billion people, want to migrate? If two thirds of them go to Europe, which is quite obvious, then 1 billion people will come this way until the end of this century. That is the end of the Netherlands. That is the end of this people. Then we can talk about Rutte III for the next few years, but then we won't exist anymore. Then we are a corner in Eurabia and we entered the Sharia here. Those are hard figures from the United Nations that are just knocking hard. Then get rid of freedom and democracy. Get rid of Christianity, Mr Segers. Get rid of Judaism. Down with the Netherlands! That invasion has an ally, too. That ally is called Brussels, a great political monster with its own flag, an anthem, a day-to-day administration, a billion-dollar budget and a parliament. A true superstate, a demophobic monstrosity, full of pocket-filling European Commissioners led by the professional alcoholic Juncker. No one chose that junta. No one wants them, no one knows them, but the idiotic thing is that we see that great danger from Africa coming towards us, that they do determine the future of the Netherlands and that they now determine a large part of our immigration policy: how many come in here and are we allowed to take care of? Mr. Chairman. My group is convinced that a real democracy can only flourish in a nation state. National sovereignty, combined with its own national culture, makes us who we are and gives us our identity. The European Union has and will never have a clear identity. Because it is missing, there is no objection to an invasion of Islamic fortune seekers. If you don't have an identity, you can't lose it either, and if you don't know what you are, you don't know what you are. But we do know who we are; we are the Netherlands! We are not Africa, we are not Morocco, we are not Syria and we do not want to become one; we do not want to become part of Africa, we do not want to become an Islamic country and we do not want to become more hate and violence. We want the Netherlands to remain the Netherlands and many Dutch people want it. It's as simple as that, and we're finally gonna have to act on it. Otherwise we won't exist anymore! Those numbers are disastrous. That is why I think we should leave the European Union so that we can be a sovereign country again, at least we can decide on all these immigration arrangements ourselves, we can control our own front door again, we can close the borders for asylum seekers and immigrants and we cannot let the jihadists come back to the Netherlands. And why not evict those 71,000 Syrians who were let into the Netherlands by Rutte II? Why don't we? Why do we leave them here? In a few years, they're gonna have a permanent residence permit and we're never gonna get them out. 71,000 people. From the countries in the region, I already know how many people go back to Syria voluntarily. They're going back to Syria voluntarily. Why don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr Wilders says something I very much agree with: we need to tackle hate and violence harder. I can assume that he therefore supports this coalition's intention to severely punish hate-sowing, because 1 plus 1 is 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u147	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When I mentioned all our objections to your CDA Mr. Grapperhaus, I said that freedom of expression is a great asset for us. Hatred sowing is a terrible article in the Code of Criminal Law. You are doing a few things: you are allowing group swearing to exist, as far as I am concerned, and you are telling us about Article 137b about hate sowing that punishment must be doubled. We both don't want that, but we do think you should be able to deal with hate when it comes. Let me give you an example. Mr. Buma, I hope you're fair enough to support me in this. Last week in the news we had an imam who came from Belgium. He was deported there. We had to let him into the Netherlands because he was Dutch; a man in The Hague, he is there now and asks for a large house with six rooms because he has many children and I understand that he has also applied for a benefit. Such a person, who is a danger to national security and indeed hates, would, in our system, be caught up in that bill a few months ago, and you can support it, and be arrested and imprisoned in an acute manner. You won't. That's not happening right now. That man is walking around here and he's a danger. So if hate-sowing leads to a danger to the national legal order, we pick up people and secure them. But only double an article in the law that is used against people like yours truly? No way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u148	That's where the problem is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u149	That is a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u150	It's a law used against "signed."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u151	A very big problem. Yes, a very big problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u152	But you know, Mr Wilders, the core of our rule of law is that the same applies to everyone. I don't care if you hate it or not. Since you just said we have to deal with hate, I can assume you agree. It's not like only Muslim activists or extremists are hateful. It could be from others, too. It's two-and-a-half. Or you can say hate sow as long as it's mine. Or you say hate-sowing isn't allowed, as you just said. Then let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u153	It is indeed a very big problem. Maybe I should just say this: when you were celebrating Tuesday and congratulating each other last week, I was sitting at the courthouse. Then I was in the extra-security bunker at Schiphol Airport, where I drove to a court of appeal. When this cabinet had a big party on Thursday because they had done something good in their opinion and when the cabinet was sworn in by our head of state, I was sitting as an elected representative in the court of The Hague, sitting in Amsterdam. That is a big problem, because I have said what half of the Netherlands think, namely: less Moroccans. The Dutchman who wants more Moroccans has yet to be born. I tell you, Mr Buma: that law is being used in this way, so that politicians do not do their work that proclaims what many Dutch think: less Moroccans. That's not only the truth, but how innocent is it when you see what threats I get on my roof? They can suck a dot on that. So, yes, it's a problem that I'm being prosecuted and that you're celebrating. It's a shame that that happens. Let that be said for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u154	But you just said we have to deal with hate and violence. Again, if you say that we must tackle hatred, I am prepared to take a look with you to see if we can change the word 'hate sow', for example in 'cause of hatred'. That's another term for the same thing, but if you think we should deal with hatred in the Netherlands, I support you in saying that it's "annoying" of the law that it's the same for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u155	Sure, but it's not used against everyone. The people who threatened me a hundred times last month probably won't be in court once. If you're talking about hate, I'll spare you reading those threats to me. I'll spare you that. I'm not giving you one of those. That's how terrible they are: from laying in front of the train to cutting your head off or pulling your guts out. Speaking of hate sows! Probably gonna get zero of that in court someday. What's it used for? To a politician who says, "less, less." So yes, we are indeed not in favour of your proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u156	If we want to tackle that hate-sowing, including against you and others, then we will not only have to say 'close borders', but we will also have to say that our security services should have the opportunity to track down hate-sowing, because they can't do that now. You just said that if that referendum turns out negative, then the intelligence and security services do not need that power. I say, in your interest and in the interest of all those people who are threatened or threatened, that I am in favour of the security services being given that power, including for your safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u157	We've just had the discussion about the tow law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u158	Certainly, Mr. Buma, but you are not for the safety of the Netherlands. You may be in favour of the bill, but you are not in favour of the safety of the Netherlands, because your party simply leaves the borders open. Then I'm not just talking about asylum seekers. I am also talking about all those jihadists who have returned to Belgium, France or England, for example. They can simply go to the Netherlands because of you. I say to you: if you say with me and with the PVV Group 'we do not do that anymore; we close the borders', then the AIVD will need half the resources less and perhaps not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u159	I hope you'll think about this. You were just talking about your own safety. That is understandable and right, because that is a big point. You mentioned people who are already in the Netherlands and who are making these threats. Every MP here knows threats, but fortunately not to the terrible extent you experience them. They're from the Internet. Not all of them come from people who still have to go to the Netherlands from abroad. You say that we are solving these terrible threats in the Netherlands by closing the borders. In the interests of your safety, I stand in the way that, even if a no comes out of such a referendum, I still choose your safety. Because it doesn't help to close those borders, because those people are already there, because they work on the Internet and because, unfortunately, the mobile phone is no longer enough for the security services. So all your stories about the terrible safety things you're going through are not in the bullshit you're saying by saying that the security services don't need that power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u160	No, I am not making any sense, because Mr Buma simply leaves the limits open. He just lets all those people who are already in Belgium, in France, in Germany again, I'm not even talking about Syria anymore, just coming to the Netherlands via open borders. I tell you that as long as you do, you should not make a big point of a law. Because you just let them in every day. Any day, anyone can come in. We have seen it with those who committed the attack in Berlin. Mr. Anis was called that terrorist. He could go through the Netherlands and other countries to Italy. That is what Mr Buma allows. That is what Mr Buma is making happen. So don't go whining about a law now if you let that happen. Because if you stop that, Mr Buma, then you will really do something about safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u161	Finally, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u162	But Mr Wilders is going around the point. I don't think he should, because it's really about our safety. He says once again: you leave the boundaries open to people from outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u163	You do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u164	All those e-mails you're getting and we're all getting, so let's go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u165	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u166	That's okay, because you say that's from outside. If we want to prevent you and other Muslims and non-Muslims and all those people who are threatened from the Netherlands from being threatened by radicals who are already in the Netherlands, then we, and you too, must have the guts to say to the Netherlands: we as politicians here have a responsibility for your safety. And that's what we stand for, no matter how big the criticism gets. That's still my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u167	No, Mr President, because that is exactly what I said earlier in my contribution to an interruption of someone. You can give an extra 1 billion to Defense and an extra 1 billion to AIVD, but as desirable as that is, if you don't solve the core of the problem by closing our borders for anyone who can enter, then it's carrying water to the sea. Then mopping with the crane is open, then you fool people when you say that the Netherlands will be safer, because the Netherlands will not be safer because everyone can just enter our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u168	I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u169	We shouldn't do that! And if you don't, you won't choose safety. In my view, therefore, I have taken up the substance of Mr Buma. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned it earlier: we must also use administrative detention. Criminals of dual nationality must be taken away from the passport in criminal acts, not just in the case of terror. Why not with a murder or manslaughter or a threat or anything else? Mr. Chairman. We must promote voluntary remigration. There are 110,000 Muslims in the Netherlands who are willing to use force for their faith. I told you. The more these people quit, the better. At last, forbid the Islamic symbols. I have already tabled a thousand motions on this subject: mosques, Islamic schools, the Koran. I will also be submitting an own-initiative proposal to this effect shortly, and I hope that this can also be discussed in more detail here. The freeing of the Netherlands from Islam must therefore be our priority. Mr. Chairman. Far away from the dream world of planet Rutte there is another reality, the reality of ordinary people with sometimes major problems: the ordinary man and woman, the families of the Netherlands, the pensioners, the people who have to work hard for their money and the people who are out of work, such as the unemployed and the disabled. They've all been screwed over the last few years. They were faced with tax increase after tax increase, rent increase after rent increase, premium increase after premium increase, own risk increase after own risk increase. But it didn't stop there. And this must be said, Mr President, because that is the context of today's coalition agreement: what else did Prime Minister Rutte do in his second cabinet? He raised the VAT. He shattered the WW. He broke down the nursing homes. He cut the housekeeping. And I can go on like this for a while. Our country has been looted. And really, honestly, millions of people have been affected by that. Mr Rutte now says that the Netherlands is doing better. Then I ask him, and I think a lot of people at home are wondering: who the hell is doing better? People don't understand. Mr Rutte says he's doing better, but who's doing better? Many Dutch people are barely able to pay their bills at the moment. My colleague, Mr Agema, has said it so many times: 800,000 people, almost a million people, are in a payment scheme at their own risk, even though they are paying their premiums properly. Since the introduction of the euro, around the turn of the century, the economy in the Netherlands has grown by 20%, but the disposable income of Dutch households hardly rose. Reports on Rutte II's policy have been published by ING and the CPB. They show that a lot of economic growth has been destroyed by his policies and that it has cost hundreds of thousands of jobs. While Mr Rutte is laughing, the reality is that half the Dutch now have less than €2,000 savings, and sometimes even nothing at all. At the slightest setback, these people get into financial trouble. Mr Rutte may not be able to imagine it, but many people at home have a problem when the washing machine breaks down. That is the reality of many people. Many people also notice that they are having a harder time because their pensions have not gone along with wage developments in recent years, or have sometimes even been reduced, while pension funds are bursting with money. How the hell do you explain that? These are the common Dutch, who often fall ill after years of hard work, before they can retire at all. These are the ordinary Dutch people Mr Rutte always talks about. He seems to have forgotten them. And the people at home, who in recent years have all paid the price of his cuts, who see that asylum seekers get everything for free, that there is no waiting list for them in the care that they do not have to pay a care premium. That own risk, what's that? They don't even know what that is. And that they do get priority for social housing. That they get free physiotherapy, for which a normal Dutchman needs to be insured. That they are given free glasses and that they are reimbursed dental costs, while many Dutch people cannot afford such supplementary insurance. Those are the common Dutch. At the same time, these people see that two thirds of all welfare benefits go to immigrants today. So their money goes to hundreds of thousands of migrants, who often have it better than they do. What do you mean, discrimination? What the people in the Netherlands need now is money in the wallet. And that without getting it ripped right out. No more chatting tricks, like on the one hand reducing the loads, but on the other hand weighing the loads. The Prime Minister, who has squeezed the Dutchman in recent years, is now going to intervene again in the mortgage interest deduction. He comes with a higher VAT, from 6% to 9%, for groceries. He comes with a fly tax, with higher tobacco taxes. He abolishes the Hills Act, comes up with a higher energy bill, and so on. And the people at home see that Africa will get the Zipcodekanjer again, Mr. Chairman. More than 1 billion extra towards development aid; single journey towards bottomless well. That money, more than 1 billion, is an entire sea container full of 50 notes on top of the four and a half sea containers that have been leaving every year. They don't go to our elders. They don't go to our hardworking Dutch either. They're leaving for Africa. That's today's practice. Who at home still has faith in a prime minister who makes these kinds of choices, who cheats on Dutch people? I said it two weeks ago in an interruption and I'm doing it again. Five years ago, Prime Minister Rutte, after the previous measures on mortgage interest relief, said: "This is it. This is what we're gonna do for the next 30 years. You can now make your decisions on the basis of this tax information." What lies. What a political scam. The VVD cuts hard again in the mortgage interest deduction. Mr. Chairman. What good is a reduction in income tax if you have to pay extra VAT? What do you have to keep your own risk if your care premium with more than €300?300! - Going up? - Yeah. What's the use of a lower-level house-to-house credit when the mortgage interest relief goes down again? What good is a lower electricity bill if the total energy bill you have to pay with your family goes up? These are all magic tricks, the work of political illusionists. Nothing's what it looks like. You get something, and you lose part of it right away. This is not the Rutte III cabinet, but the Hans Klok I cabinet. That's the name it deserves. Mr. Chairman. The tax reduction that is now being introduced is therefore largely a cigar from its own box. In part, it is also previously promised money, money that has been used in the previous adjustment of the mortgage interest rate deduction, which has been brought forward. This government's policy averages a small percentage of purchasing power per year. Structurally, as we saw yesterday, the burden is even increased by more than EUR 1 billion. You're hearing it right: raised. What are those jokes? The taxes go up in one go, but we're told they're going down. People aren't getting anywhere with a constant risk of their own. They want this reduced. That's what the CDA promised. I still see Mr Buma standing: we are faced with a reduction in our own risk. Lies! No own risk reduction, the premium goes up by €300, thanks to the CDA. People want a lower bounty. People want to rent lower. Mr. Chairman. So what should we do now? Of course, the best thing would be for this cabinet to quit immediately and the coalition agreement to go through the shredder, but I have such a feeling that I am not going to get a majority for it this week. Then I would at least like to make the following four proposals which can be done. The first is: hands off the mortgage interest deduction. Keep the Hills Act in place and do not increase VAT. In short, carry out your promises, Mr Rutte. You can afford all that, too. Pay this by not reducing the tax on large companies and foreign investors by 5 billion. Therefore, do not abolish any reduction in the Vpb rates or the dividend tax. That is about the same amount as the mortgage interest deduction, the Hills Act and the VAT. My second proposal is: close the borders for asylum seekers. Close the borders for immigrants from Islamic countries. Send back the 80,000 Syrians. 80,000: imagine what a money that is. That's gonna get us billions. Use that money, for example, to eliminate your own risk, reduce the care premium and more night nurses in care. There's another big problem. My third proposal is to stop spending on development aid. It's possible. We can work that out tomorrow. With that money, 4 or 5 billion, you can bring the AOW age back to 65 years. That's the same amount. So it's neatly covered. A lot of hardworking Dutch people would have been greatly helped with that. I come to my fourth and final proposal. This cabinet also has a budget surplus of 0.5%, 4 billion euros, in 2021 but also before that. That is 4 billion tax dollars overpaid by the Dutch. Give me that money back. You can lower the rents. You can give extra money to police and defense. You can know--I--what to do with it. These are concrete proposals that now, today, when they become reality, give people extra money in their pockets. Mr President, I will conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u170	I have another question about Mr Wilders' economic policy. He mentioned his main proposals for improvement, and I do not see the exit from the European Union. I know Wilders said the day after the Brexit: this is an historic day, this is great, this must be done by the Netherlands as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u171	Sure, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u172	If you see what has happened since then in Britain, growth is the lowest in Europe and inflation is the highest in Europe. Does Mr Wilders know who is paying for this? Those are the ordinary British. Does he know what has happened since his statement with the support for Europe, someone who says he wants to listen to the voice of the people? This support has grown to over 70% in the Netherlands. I am thinking of all of Mr Wilders' proposals, such as closing the borders; Mr Wilders knows that this cannot be done without enormous damage to our economy, to employment, to many ordinary Dutch people. It's bullshit what he's selling here and he's not even willing to put his most important proposal into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u173	I just mentioned it. In my first part of that story, I made six or seven proposals, and my first proposal was to leave the European Union so that we can regain control over our own borders. You can read it in the Acts. I have referred to the proposal as tough, pure and clear. I still think that we should take over our own borders, our own immigration policy. That is no longer possible in the European Union. There are so many directives, from qualification directives to family reunification directives and you name it, so you can't do that anymore. I also know that it hurts in the United Kingdom in the short term now that they have decided to leave the European Union, but I also know that it will be much better in the long term. We've been looking into that, too. As PVV, we have had reports made that it indeed hurts in the first few years. That is undoubtedly true, I am not cleaning it away. The first few years, it hurts. But after that, there is more rather than less economic growth. After that, there is more employment instead of less. I can assure you that this will also happen to the United Kingdom. So we want to get out of the European Union because we want to be the boss of our own country again and we want to be the boss of our own borders again and also because we think that we as the Netherlands should be sovereign again and we believe that things will be better in the long term. The fact that I call that, even in times when not 100% of the Dutch think so, does not make that argument any less strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u174	When Mr Wilders says 'in the long term' it is about a very long term. There are ordinary Dutch people who can't wait that long, just like the British pay a price.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u175	Four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u176	Not within four years is economic growth in Britain at the level that could have been there without the Brexit. The Brexit hasn't even come true yet and now they're already paying a huge price. It would be much more serious for the Netherlands, and Mr Wilders knows that. He knows it, and he also knows that in his own constituency since his own historic words after the Brexit, support for EU membership has been rising. In other words, if, like the Labour Party, you want extra money for the district nurse, for the teacher and for the police officer, then the stupidest thing you can do is follow Mr Wilders' proposal. It's eyes closed instead of borders closed. It is against the interests of the Netherlands, against the interests of all those ordinary Dutch. Mr Wilders knows. That's why he just mucked it away, he doesn't want to talk about it, but it's bad for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u177	Again, I didn't muffle anything away. I have made seven proposals on Islam and four on the economy, so there are eleven in total. The first was this proposal. Speaking of hiding away. It was proposal 1. And I stand for it: we must leave the European Union. We have nothing to say in that supranational body. Nothing at all. We depend on the whims of someone like Angela Merkel or other leaders who can be replaced tomorrow and the whole policy goes the other way again. I want the Netherlands to decide on its own house. I'm not giving my house key to a stranger either. Everyone, all people at home want to control their own homes. They won't give the key to the rest of the street. They want to be the boss in their own house, with their own front door key, and they want to decide who gets in and who doesn't. That's what we have to do with each other. Of course, we also have to live together in that street. This can also be done outside the European Union. That's what other countries show. If Switzerland, Norway and you name it can do that, with all kinds of conditions I realize that I can. We're gonna do it, and I'm gonna keep going for it. We're going to be sovereign and we're going over our own boundaries again. I told you, we looked into it. We've had it examined by Capital Economics, a very renowned agency and a winner of the Wolfson Prize, an award that economists know what it's worth. That agency said that after a number of years, indeed two or three years, the economy will only grow more. After ten years, the economy will be even 10% larger than if we had been in the European Union for 10 years. So it is a great proposal and I will continue to argue for it. It's gonna happen sooner or later, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u178	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u179	Yes, you need to control migration at European level. You'll have to make agreements together to defend yourself against terror and climate change. You will have to do that in a European context. The examples mentioned by Mr Wilders are countries which do not have a say in decision-making, but which have to comply with the rules. Mr Wilders talks about Norway's sovereignty. Norway abides by European rules, which the Netherlands participates in, and Norway does not. That is why the British are shooting in their own foot now, because they do not want to shoot in their own foot either. No, Mr Wilders, among ordinary Dutch people there is very clear awareness "yes, there must be control. Yeah, we need to be safe. But no, we're not gonna achieve that by doing it on our own. We will have to work together in Europe. We will have to earn our money in Europe." Support for membership of Europe is growing among all Dutch, including the voters at Wilders. That's got to give you some thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u180	Yes, and we continue to strongly support the departure of the Netherlands from the European Union. That doesn't mean you can't work together. You can work very well with other countries without being in a European Union. Why should there be a European Commission that no one knows and no one has chosen and which is now in charge of our immigration policy? I don't need those people at all! Why should we depend on other Heads of State or Government such as Mrs Merkel, who will be able to change their minds again tomorrow, when we, as a small country, are bumping behind them? I want us to control our own country again. That's a hell of a proposal. The time when it will lead to a great deal of support again, if only because of what I just said about immigration from Africa from 1 to 4 billion people, one billion of whom want to come this way. That's never gonna work in Europe. The Prime Minister says that this will only work in Europe. This is not going to work in Europe. We must be in charge of this ourselves in our own country, so I predict that the end of the European Union may not come tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u181	I was thinking: it was actually quite a long sermon from Mr Wilders on what is wrong in this country and what concerns there are. But he started his contribution with the reference to the Netherlands of old, when the churches were still a lot fuller. I was actually curious whether Mr Wilders also knows what is being spent this first Wednesday in November in many Protestant churches in the Netherlands, in the past and still?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u182	Yeah, I'm sure. This is an important moment: the so-called Reformation. A moment when Protestantdom, I think it was exactly 500 years ago on Monday, split off because of the so-called indulgences, even though that is perhaps too big a word of Catholicism. A moment that's important to your group, I'm sure. A moment which I understand is an important historical moment for you. It is for me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u183	It is great that Mr Wilders even remembers yesterday's reform remembrance, but time is running out. Today is again in Protestant churches the so-called Thanksday for Crop and Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u184	Ah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u185	With all the worries we have, there are always beautiful, good things that we are grateful for. It seems to me that it is a nice conclusion to your contribution to bring to light what is happening in the Netherlands today that we should be grateful for and that we should hold on to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u186	The most important thing perhaps is that there are fortunately a lot of Dutch people who know the truth, who know that the fable... I have used the metaphor "Mr. Rutte's planet" in my contribution in a funny way... is a different reality than theirs. Those Dutch people are not fooled by Mr Rutte, who has lied about his entire career, with promises and other things. So the positive thing is that I have faith in the power of all those Dutch people who know that what is being said is, to a large extent, nonsense and who still have faith in the future. That is why we are sitting in the benches with twenty strong men. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I know what it's like to lose your freedom. This month means a sad anniversary to me personally. I've been in security for almost 13 years now, as it's called. That means I can't move a step without security and often a bulletproof vest. For me, losing freedom is not something vague or abstract. It is the everyday reality for me. I know what Islamic hate means. I also know what freedom means. And that fact, it obliges me. It obliges me personally. It forces me to defend the freedom of the Netherlands, to prevent what happened to me thirteen years ago from happening to the whole of the Netherlands. I am telling you that there is nothing to prevent me from doing so. No death threats, no fatwa, no criminal trials, no cordon sanitation, it's not gonna stop me. I will go through with it until my last breath, regardless of the price I pay for it. The Netherlands, Madam President, is dear to me. It's the only country we have. And it's our country. I want the Netherlands to remain a free country, even if our children and grandchildren and their children are about to grow up. That is why I am constantly fighting against the Islamisation of our country. I do that for freedom. And I do that for our freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you very much, Mr Wilders. I'd like to suspend the meeting for five minutes. Then we will continue with Mr Dijkhoff's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u188	I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff, on behalf of the VVD, who, if I am right, will speak for the first time in our capacity as group chairman. You have seen how that has happened to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u189	Mr. Chairman. There's a coalition agreement and there's a cabinet. That was also about time, especially because Dutch people deserve it. You work your ass off, you worry about your job and your family and about the threats to our security and our values. And then you really just want politics to get started, that we Dutch defend and protect and make things a little better. And if you saw journalists interview people over the last few weeks about the coalition agreement, then the reactions were hesitant. I saw a somewhat older couple walking hand in hand across the market, who got a microphone under their noses at once. "What do you think of the coalition agreement?" "Yes, darling, what do we think?" That journalist kept asking and saying, "But everyone is getting better, you're getting better. That's nice, isn't it?" "Well, we'll see about that," said those people. People don't quite believe it yet. They don't really believe that with this coalition agreement they actually have more money left in their wallet. That we're really gonna spend more money on loving care for our elders, that you know that grandpa's not just inside a home all day, but that they're gonna take him for a walk through his old neighborhood. That there are really more cops on the street to keep the Netherlands safe. That we don't take it anymore that biker gangs, those bangy types in those leather hoops, put pressure on people to take a weed plantation in the attic. And that education, which is so important for a good start for our children, is going to get quite a boost. That we are also seriously working to pass our country on fresh and sustainable to our children and grandchildren, so that they can smell real grass later in the park with their children and not have to buy the energy from Putin's successor. And that there is also a considerable amount of money going to defense because it is necessary for our security. That we can pick up some jihadists up over the desert and, if necessary, throw a bomb on them. That our soldiers in other countries guard the peace, to prevent the hell from breaking out there, a lot of people dying and hordes of people having to leave their country as refugees. Because unfortunately, there are crazy leaders in the world who measure their ego by the size of a rocket. And there are still fools everywhere in the world who want to blow us up in the name of Allah, who want to destroy our freedoms and values. They're not gonna make it. We'll beat them, but we're not there yet. Madam President. The lack of confidence in politics that exists seems to be hard to reconcile when you look at how well things are going in our country. We take care of everyone, everyone can go to the same, good schools, and everyone gets the same, good care. I think 90% of the world's population would give up anything to live here. We just live in one of the most beautiful countries in the world. And yet, when you listen to people, they don't always feel that way. And how we all conduct politics here also plays a role. It's too easy to shrug our shoulders on that. I therefore hope that this coalition agreement will be a basis for wider cooperation, that parties will not reject it unread simply because it can, and that we will have the opportunity to do the good things together for all Dutch people. That we do what they have chosen us to do: to protect the Netherlands and our freedoms, make things better. Because our job here is bigger than our own. This room is full of people who work hard and make long days to bring their ideals closer. Those, such as Mr Hiddema, give up a comfortable position in society for an uncertain existence in politics. Those risks, or in the case of Mr Wilders, must even accept danger for their own lives in order to continue to say what they believe in. Those, like Mr Roemer and his SP, always build from the street and on a plan not based on the average effect but on the ones hit hardest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u190	I would like to refer to Mr Dijkhoff's comment on the lack of confidence in politics. Does Mr Dijkhoff not agree with me that, if The Hague does not take account of the results of referendums, such as the 2005 European Constitution on Ukraine, I can continue to be a little more ashamed of confidence in politics?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u191	I don't think it's wise to have a mix of representative democracy, where people say, "I vote for you; go ahead for us," and referenda, where you always ask a very limited question. I think that this combination is a recipe for mistrust and that you have to make a clear choice: either a parliament that does very little with many referendums, or, as is our tradition, a parliament that weighs all interests, seeks the solution that most Dutch people can agree with and then makes a decision, without referenda. The latter seems to me to be the wisest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u192	This is evidence of an enormous arrogance. If you look at how many people are trying to get subjects on the Chamber's agenda through petitions and to ensure that referendums are written out, among other things about the drag law... that referendum is likely to take place during the municipal elections........................................................................................................................................................ Does the VVD have their backs on these people? Or does she think: because there is a gap between politics and the citizen, it is important to see how we can broaden democracy, make people more involved and give us much more support for everything we do here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u193	It is above all a sign of respect for tradition in our democracy. In it, you don't look binary at half plus one, but at everyone's interests. Those interests weigh with you. Suppose you ask one day: do you want the government to do as little as possible and that you have as much privacy as possible? Then a lot of people will say yes. Suppose the next day you ask: do you want our services to have the ability to be effective and keep us safe? Then a lot of people will say yes. So you don't have to choose between doing everything or doing nothing. Then you need to find a mix with a law, in this case an anti-terror law, with the possibilities for our services to keep us safe but the safeguards in it to protect our privacy. Such a thing comes about in a negotiated democracy, as we have it. I'd like to cherish it. In the state of California, they've worked with referenda for a long time, but they didn't like it. I am a fan of our negotiated democracy, in which you take others into account and not just ask yes-no questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u194	It's obvious. Mr Dijkhoff said at the beginning of his reply that he respected tradition in particular. We also know the VVD as a party that stands for the power of the individual and believes that the individual can also make good choices. Do I hear Mr Dijkhoff say here that the citizen is not really very good at judging whether or not a particular law should be passed? In fact, the elitist comes up here, as of: we can better decide that for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mrs Thieme hears that only herself and not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u196	Those who have listened carefully to Mr Dijkhoff heard him say: one time the citizen's sister thinks about privacy and the other time the citizen thinks about privacy; we cannot conduct a policy there, so we want to decide it ourselves. That is what Mr Dijkhoff said. I'd really like him to go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u197	What I want to point out is that I find referenda a very bad way to shape decision-making models. That goes for me personally, too. I am nothing more or less than an average Dutchman. For me, a referendum is also a very bad model to decide my choice, because every night I feel like eating fat. But when I think about how to make a good compromise in my life, I come up with: healthy eating and occasionally snacking. You have to weigh all those interests. It may be an absurd example, but that's how it works. It's just really bad...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u198	They do Netflixes in the VVD all the time, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u199	No, no, no, Mr Baudet. You didn't have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u200	I saw you coming, Mr Baudet, so I thought I'd beat you to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u201	First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Dijkhoff on his group presidency. It's a nice job; I can give you that in advance. I wish you a great deal of wisdom and, above all, a great deal of strength. I like the tone you started. You've already got it. You reach out to the opposition, in the sense of: come forward with proposals, then we can see if we can perhaps come together to improve policy. I'd like to pick up that glove. We have made quite a few proposals with three parties. So I would also like to check to what extent they are not just words, but also actions. Could we talk to you about, for example, removing the discount on Wajong benefit for the most vulnerable young people who arrive hard, or the discount on community care that has been so much to do? For example, we pay this out of the dividend distribution for foreign investors, foreign shareholders. Could we do business like this today, or are they just empty words?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u202	I'd like to do business, but I'd like to look at the whole problem, not just a particle that's enlarged. If we look at the Wajong, I can see how it sounds. We're just saying, you can hire young disabled people for a salary below the minimum wage. That sounds like a cutback, but what we're trying to achieve is that those people have jobs, that you see someone like that, a Wajanger, standing in a booth when you're on the market. So he's got a job. The market merchant can afford that because he doesn't have to pay the full price. If the Wajanger then has too little, then the municipality can add up. What we are also doing for those for whom this situation is not feasible is setting up 20,000 additional sheltered workplaces. Is that a bad way of dealing with these people for Mr. Roemer? We want to do this in a different way than we have already done, to encourage people, to give people a chance in ordinary work traffic, so that we can see them again. In addition, we set up extra sheltered workplaces. Is that such a bad plan when you look at the whole picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u203	On the other you don't even go in, but these vulnerable youngsters you just catch. The cabinet is not there for those young people. The cabinet has radiated that everyone is making progress, but that doesn't apply to Wajangers. Work must be rewarding. Why don't we get that for you? If people with disabilities go to work, they can get paid under the statutory minimum wage. Performance by output doesn't mean that you're paid according to wealth, because you're going to work below the statutory minimum wage. So, what do you say we do that together? Mr Dijkhoff does not want to deal with the discount on community nursing. The same goes for the Wajong. Just now it was about the referendum. He doesn't want to. Will we then ban people from being paid under the statutory minimum wage if they simply work according to their assets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u204	I did not go into those other examples because I was afraid to get blamed for having another long answer. However, I would like to peel these things off one by one. That is not a problem, but I would like to outline the whole picture before we discuss what is or is not desirable. I'll be back on the Wajong. If you hire someone with a disability, who is therefore less productive than anyone else who could fill that job, then you can say that you have to pay someone the full price. I think I can say something for that in principle, but the practice will be that an SME who is already having a hard time says, "I'm sorry, I'm gonna let him walk. If you can hire someone who only pays you for what he delivers, while the rest can be pushed through the municipality, then that Wajanger has a job, wherever we see him, the employer has someone employed, and the municipality can possibly supplement something. In this way we are making another attempt, given the previous system of subsidies which did not produce the result we wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u205	In this way, you release the legal minimum wage, but that means that, if people perform according to their ability, people with a disability at all, the assistance becomes the new legal minimum wage. I am trying to peel off what Mr Dijkhoff tried in his beautiful opening, namely to reach out, but whether it is the care, the referendum, the Wajangers, or working under the minimum wage, for everything he comes up with a story of: no, we can't do that, we are not going to do that. What are your words worth now? You are trying to do a hand-out, but with the first of the best proposals, which do not cost so much money, you are immediately in a cramping position: we are not going to do that, we know better and we are going to go through with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u206	This is a bit of a shame, because if Mr Roemer himself had told the whole story, I could have just responded to the choices. By telling me just a little bit, he forces me first to defend the policy that I also approve and advocate, and then to start talking about possible adjustments. That's what we do here all the time: blotting out the other part of a point. If Mr Roemer says that we are doing something scandalous again, I must, of course, start by explaining that I do not think it is scandalous. Otherwise, I wouldn't have signed up for it. Should I say here: well, Mr Roemer is right, I haven't been paying attention? Of course, I'm defending what we stand for, but after that, I'd like to look at the effects. Does it lead to what we're aiming at, which is that those people have jobs that they wouldn't otherwise have? If all these people are going to earn less in one go while they already had a job, then I agreed with Mr Roemer that it only has bad effects. Take care of the neighborhood. There is no provision in the coalition agreement for cuts to be made. That's where more money goes next year and the next year more money goes there again. It does say that we want to slow down this huge increase in healthcare costs. We did the same with the previous cabinet. You want to conclude broad agreements so that the quality of care is good, but we all in society do not pay too much; that it lingers somewhere in between. For that you have an objective, for which the CPB has calculated. That's where the $100 million came from. I want the Minister to be given the room to conduct these negotiations, and that has yet to begin so that we can provide that good care. But that is not a cut-off of: if it is at the expense of quality, do it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u207	Really rounding up, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u208	Mr President, concluding. Look, from day one, the Cabinet has been trying to figure out where to co-operate in the Chamber. It is well aware that 76 seats here and one seat are more across the street but a very limited margin. I want to pick up that glove. Yes, we are prepared to see where we can improve proposals, to think and join in. But there's got to be something to come back for. If the cabinet suggests that everyone is making progress, while in practice we see that the most vulnerable do not and that the people with the highest incomes are making the most progress in euros, then it is quite logical that we should say: come in our direction to see where we can help the most vulnerable. Four or five examples have passed by here. On everything it is immediately: no, njet, we defend our position. It must have come a long way!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr President, it is not a no, but the image that Mr Roemer gives me is that he wants me to pay something first, and then he can talk. I recently negotiated with the trade unions; even they didn't. Of course I want to look at the problem and how you handle it. I want to look at the quality, as I just said, in the years to come, but now as a kind of symbol I have to turn in something, while I am not convinced that the Netherlands is getting better, to prove that I am working together... Then I'm gonna cut the Dutch too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u210	I hear Mr Dijkhoff talking about rising healthcare costs, but why do I not hear him talk about tackling the VVD cartel with the health insurance companies, where all those former VVDs are waving off to? Hans Wiegel was chairman of the health insurance company. Edith Schippers' husband was an advisor to the health insurance company. Jan Driessen, consultant to Mark Rutte, is in the care and insurance world and now Henk Kamp has also got a job in the care world. Why can't I hear him about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u211	Yes, Mr President, Mr Baudet will never hear me talk about things that do not exist in the coming years, so neither will I.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u212	You see it happening, you see that one VVD person after another goes from the Chamber or from the Cabinet to the care world. You can also see that the spokesperson care on behalf of the VVD comes from the care world, from the health insurance world, here in the Lower House. This is a cartel. It is a closed world, in which people keep each other's hands above their heads and in which bureaucracy is not being tackled, but is only getting bigger. That is the underlying problem that needs to be addressed and it is really incredible that the new chairman of the political group on the first day that he is standing here says that it does not exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u213	Yes, chairman, what you see is that drivers run and if they're good at something, they end up in another place. I understand that Mr Baudet is making something of that. I even understand that many Dutch people sometimes think: gosh, we first saw that name there, and now we see him there, but that of course makes a lot of social sense. People who hold a top position at a bank have often worked at a bank before, it just isn't in the newspaper. People who come to PSV in the first place don't come running off the hockey field either...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u214	... but have first gained experience in a lower team. So that people who are good at something in that sector are appreciated and that is why they are being fought, yes, I find that quite logical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u215	This is the most interesting defense of conflict of interest I've ever heard. I have another point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u216	I'm glad to receive so much support from the Chamber. Mr Dijkhoff says that he does not believe in direct democracy, and he adds: if I could choose freely every day, I would snack every night and watch Netflix. By this he means to say that the Dutch people and the citizens in the Netherlands are not well able to take care of themselves. That's the implication. The implication is: if we leave it to the people themselves, they're gonna be snacking and watching TV all day; they can't. That is a very arrogant thought that does not convince me and does not convince most people in the Netherlands. Since the 1970s, there has been a solid majority of almost two thirds of the population of people who want more influence. I get it. I can see why Mr Dijkhoff is doing so, and I am happy to get his response because, under his reign, the time he was Secretary of State, 333,211 non-Western immigrants have come to the Netherlands. That number of 333.211 is as large as the population of the city of Utrecht. Hardly anyone in the Netherlands supports that policy. Hardly anyone in the Netherlands would have wanted that and would have voted for it if it had been put forward in a clear referendum question. The only reason that the VVD gets away with it and is still the biggest party, is because in the run-up to the elections so much unrest and diffusion has been created that people thought: well, with all the riots in Rotterdam and all the other things, we vote VVD again. You wouldn't have got away with it, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u217	I am starting to get nervous because I am being accused of arrogance by Mr Baudet. Well, then I've got it all figured out. I therefore think it would be wise to explain. I'm not saying people can't make a choice. They're very good at it. That is why we have a democracy, and that is why people are voting for parties that have a solid package and a world view that can weigh interests. That's why I hear a lot about it: "Oh, go do your job and don't bother us with it." I say that the decision-making model of one element every time without context is not a healthy way to govern the country. I find that personal and that is what a lot of Dutch people think with me. Mr Baudet feels differently, and that is fine. As far as the numbers of refugees are concerned, I have the feeling that there is a bit much added together, because I was only there for two and a half years, but all right. I didn't want those large numbers of people coming in. We didn't start a war that turned them into refugees. I have devoted a great deal of time to properly accommodating people who came to the Netherlands and spending even more time working with others in Europe to ensure that we have control over borders. I have spent time making agreements with Turkey, which means that hundreds of thousands of people came to Europe less and did not come to the Netherlands either. I have made agreements with the Balkan countries so that there was no free passage to Western Europe, and to ensure that this influx came down. I've spent more time on that. I am pleased that I have been able to contribute to the fact that the influx is now much lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u218	The key word in Mr Dijkhoff's answer is 'trying': I tried to do so and I tried to do so. I'm interested in the results. Those aren't right. Your party should have been dealt with and your policy could have been dealt with if we had a referendum and if the people had had a direct say in these matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u219	I will always try to make it better, even if I can only choose from solutions that also have disadvantages. I'll always try. Just as Mr Baudet will continue to try to do so at once, he has not succeeded in becoming the largest party and becoming the prime minister, I will continue to try to achieve my goals. To be honest, I would rather be blamed for trying something and not perfect than for never doing anything wrong because I was always on the sidelines screaming and never taking responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u220	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u221	We prefer people to rely on their results rather than their intentions and efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u222	Mr Dijkhoff, congratulations. Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the outstretched hand. Mr Dijkhoff says here on behalf of the VVD: this is in fact just the beginning. People must start to feel it, and there must also be visible cooperation in Parliament. So you can deduce that the coalition agreement is not cast into concrete either. 'Cause if all we had to do was clap, I'm sure this wouldn't have been said. Then he said in Mr Roemer's question that the 500 million being cut off from the unemployed was not about money, not about austerity, but about another noble goal. That means the money here isn't dominant. So we don't have to worry about that. He was interested in employment. Now we come from the situation that the goals are actually being met, that the number of jobs is actually being created and that for the first time people understand that they were getting ordinary wages through the collective agreement, often minimum wage, but the wage we have appointed as a social minimum, that they were going to build up their pensions, that they were part of it. Now the VVD says here: I don't want that anymore, I just want employers to supplement it to a limited amount and then people get a level of assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u223	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u224	The question is this. Now that we know that he is not concerned with the money, that the coalition agreement has not been poured into concrete, could we talk about maintaining the employment objective for this group, to do it in a decent way, a way that corresponds to what has grown in this house and to which the VVD contributed in a, admitted, distant past?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yeah, you can always talk. So that would be the easiest answer. I only have an eye for those employers who say that the old regime was an obstacle to employing those people. I will not ask Mr Asscher to go along with that, but that is something we hear. Then I think: yes, this is also a way to make sure that it can do even more, including sheltered work, for which we also have eyes. That can't always happen in regular traffic. Anything to get these people to work even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u226	Those employers weren't asked to do it out of charity either, they got a wage bill that enabled them to hire people. In fact, that's what they're going to do, to a greater extent than the governments that should. In other words, something is growing. Instead of saying: yes employers, we make follow-up agreements, we're going to set the targets higher, you're actually taking it away from the people who just celebrated being part of it. That's very serious to me. There is always talk, Mr Dijkhoff says. Of course, that's a bit of a killer, because we're here to talk about it. The question is then very specific: I do not think it can be explained that, at a time of budgetary surplus, you are taking away 500 million, 500 million, the biggest cut that comes with it, from this vulnerable group that is finally part of it. Is there any way to talk about solving that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u227	Again, we can talk about that, but I would point out that it is not as black and white as Mr Asscher says. I do not think that the new measure only has disadvantages. So I also want to keep an eye on those employers who feel it is a threshold. I would also like to talk about where to put the costs and whether this is, on balance, the most efficient way to involve people and to spend taxpayers' money from all the Dutch. These are aspects that our spokesmen must involve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u228	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u229	Use of taxpayers' money is an argument that comes with it now. I think it's worth it that people deserve the social minimum. I hear that very clearly, and I am going to see if that is also apparent in the votes, should it come after so many parts of the day. 'Cause we're talking about it now, and then we can make choices. It's a little yes or no. If we were to be able to make a proposal that would maintain the same employment objective for this group, while maintaining the minimum social level and avoiding employers who could, for example, benefit from wage costs, that would be a conceivable alternative to the VVD as the owner of this coalition agreement. 'Cause I really think that's a move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u230	In order to avoid disappointment in the future: I do not bring up the taxpayer's argument, you can assume that the sensible handling of taxpayers' money, including this tax money, is always an important argument for the VVD. That doesn't add up in one go. Then we can look at it. But yes, I did with that condition I just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u231	We all find the taxpayers, sure...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u232	That is the last point I should like to make on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u233	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Taxpayers in China, America and Russia will be relieved, we have seen that. We consider that to be the VVD point: 1.4 billion. Here 500 million is taken away from a group that's struggling, who doesn't make much money, they're not great earners, we've agreed on the minimum wage as what you earn when you work. These are people who work. The question is, leave all the rams aside, or talk about it, yes or no. I understand very well that we have to help employers. That's what we've always done. I understand very well that we also want them to participate, but not in this way, because in fact, you take the pension, you take the minimum wage and you print it to welfare level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u234	I told you before, I'd be happy to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u235	Mr Klaver, with a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've just been able to enjoy the battle on the right. The intermediate position is now 1-0 for Dijkhoff. My question, however, is about something quite different. We are talking about Mr Dijkhoff's speech. He actually said: things are going great in the Netherlands. Worldwide, we are one of the countries where it is best. I often hear the coalition say, when it comes to health, education or income: you hardly understand that people are dissatisfied with this. That also has to do with the debate in the Chamber. Can Mr Dijkhoff go into more detail on what he means by that? Does he mean to say that when people complain about how things are going in the Netherlands, they are not right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u237	Extensive. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u238	That is at the heart of the follow-up to my speech, which I am now in need of. I would like to do the same in that coherence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u239	Then I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u240	Then you can continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u241	Mr. Chairman. I was in the middle of a list of compliments. Technically, it would make sense to skip the rest, but I find that very annoying. In fact, when I realized that we are all here for the same purpose as MPs and working hard for that, I had just come to Mr Asscher and his Labour Party. They are willing to take difficult measures, even if they do not make you popular and even if you cost them seats, with perhaps the complete consolation that you know that in decades you will be written that you have done the right thing and that you have retained the Netherlands and the welfare state for the future. There are a lot of people here in the Chamber who, like myself, but I think we all have experienced that somewhere in a TV studio you do your best to explain what you're doing, that it's not good enough and how you want to solve the problem, and that you then check Twitter on the way home, just to read that you're a traitor. With lyrics like, if we're in charge, we're gonna get you first. Or, wait till such a fugitive rapes your daughter. And yet we all work through this with heart and soul. If we're here for all these Dutch people, why aren't we working together anymore? Then why should we all go for our own equal? Then why choose one point, take it out of context, and then take action very hard and say it's no good without sketching the whole story? 'Cause that doesn't work, of course. Actually, we all know that. The people we're here for already know that, and yet we sometimes act like they're crazy. And they're not. They also know that if there had been another party at the table, compromises had also been made and that not everything in the Netherlands would have been perfect at once. There's something to take responsibility for, Mr. Chairman, and that's guts. I hope more parties will show that. I just saw a nice start on that. In the coming years, too, not everything will go well. In the systems we make here, mistakes will creep and in the execution people will make mistakes and I will also make mistakes. I will also lose myself once in a fitness in The Hague with my friends from the coalition, who seems very important to us here, but doesn't matter to the rest of the Netherlands. But at least these four parties that have joined the coalition have said that they are going to do things and this cabinet will roll up its sleeves every day and work hard to make people's lives in the Netherlands better step by step. Not standing on the sidelines and yelling, but tackling and solving problems, even if a solution is not perfect. I understand that there are parties that would rather shout than tackle things anyway, that's their choice, but I think most parties in the Chamber were founded to make the Netherlands better, from a different background and vision, but to make it better. I hope that the Dutch will be able to count on these parties in the coming years and that the Dutchman who is still a bit hesitant and looks out of the tree will see who is here for them and who is most for himself. Madam President. I believe that the coalition agreement is a good basis for this. No, it's not the VVD election program, unfortunately. But at one point it might be better than the VVD election programme and that is that this coalition agreement is being carried out more broadly, that we are heading in the right direction, in the direction I as a VVD like to see: more investing in security, doing our best and making sure that fewer refugees come to Europe and therefore to the Netherlands, more money for roads and sports and more money in the wallet of Dutch people, so that they can decide for themselves what to do with it. It may be going at a lower pace than I would have liked, but at a pace that the Netherlands can have and that fits better with what Dutch people want. Because democracy isn't about counting heads and doing what half plus one wants. Democracy is taking into account all interests and opinions in society and ensuring that as much of the Dutch as possible can find a solution and that they also have confidence that they will be taken into account if the party on which they voted is not in charge. Mr. Chairman. I'm curious, because we're actually just getting started. Are we going to see in this Chamber how we can make ourselves useful to all Dutch people, how we can honor this beautiful country and guard our freedoms and values, how we can settle things fairly and make people give each other something, or are we all going to do our own thing? Are we going to fight for our own millimeter and then pretend it is a debate club with a price at the end of the day for those who made the sharpest remark? We can do that. I do not think that will make the Netherlands any better. I think people will wonder what the hell we're doing here. Finally, Mr President. I would like to call on the Cabinet to bear in mind the motto of the coalition agreement 'trust in the future' and to ensure, in all its work, that people's confidence in politics also grow. I would like to call on the parties in the Chamber to see with us how we can do the best things for the Netherlands and not find the difference on the square millimetre. I would like to ask the people at home to keep the parties on which they voted, including the VVD, sharp in where we are before this, namely for them and not for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u242	I can hear the VVD group rumbling on the benches. I also liked the story of my colleague Dijkhoff. It creates expectations that you not only want to talk about it, but also want to change things with each other. I'd like to hold him to that, too. First of all, I have a question about something that I did not find in the coalition agreement, but which was on the formation table. This is also something that Dutch people should not have so much of, namely the relaxation of the bonus rules. That's not written down. May I therefore assume that we simply stick to the strict bonus rules introduced by Jeroen Dijsselbloem after the banking crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u243	Yes, I also assume that there is not a majority for that very quickly, but if that had been done, that would have been in the agreement as far as the VVD is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u244	My second question concerns the following. The new Minister for Social Affairs, whom I wish him good luck and good luck, said on his very first day of work he was coldly installed for an hour, I think, that there should be a social agreement. Of course, this can only happen if he is given the room, within the cabinet but above all by the coalition partners, to fill in the agreements differently. There are agreements in the labour market paragraph that I like, but there are also agreements that can affect people's security of existence, for example the five-month probation period. You're sending the minister out as the owner of the coalition agreement. Does he also get the room to come back with improvements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u245	Just to clarify: five months of probation sounds long, but that is, of course, only for an indefinite contract. It is not that this is always the case and that it is also the case of shorter contracts. It means someone gets a permanent contract right away and then gets five months probation. I say that in order to remove the negative a bit, because of course it has been thought about. It's about constructive probations related to the contract. A social agreement will be judged on the outcome, on the balance sheet that is in it and on the content. On the contrary, I want to prevent us from getting back into the game that an agreement is good because everyone was in pain, but the same amount. I want it to be good for the people who suffer from it: the ordinary Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u246	You're going to assess a social agreement on the content. That's right. I'll do the same. But my question was: will this minister have the opportunity to make other agreements in relation to the coalition agreement, which we all know will never be implemented one-on-one? Because otherwise there's no point at all and you might as well not do it. If the trade unions and employers had already been thrilled, they would have signed it by now. So the question of whether he gets the space is important in that sense. After that, we all have the freedom to judge the result. Is the answer to that question yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u247	It sounds like the Minister is doing a service through this discussion, but if you're gonna let someone negotiate with tough negotiating partners, that's what a social agreement is like, it's not gonna help if we're gonna pre-negotiate here. There's a coalition agreement. That's the base. A minister will then have to work and negotiate. Then we will see whether something is feasible and whether we can support it as a coalition and as a VVD. But it's in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u248	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u249	But you're not gonna do that with half plus one, because that was the whole point of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u250	I don't even have one. I only have 33.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u251	No, that's bad enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u252	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u253	But the question was: will the Minister be allowed to make other arrangements? So the answer is yes, only you reserve the right to oppose it. I think that's good news, because then there's a chance of success. I would advise you to wait until that social agreement is in place, unless it has been established that that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u254	I notice that one part of my speech is more popular than the other. One part, cooperation, is eagerly accepted. I hope we keep telling the whole story here when we're criticizing something. I would like to say to Mr Klaver that he is always entitled to complain, but then you have to complain about everything and not about a particle. I'm not sure that's a good advice, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u255	I do not know whether this accusation of me is entirely justified. I was just very complimentary of your input and supported the applause. I asked the question as a result of your own speech or working together also means that a minister will be given the space. Yes, if that is already complaining, then you will have a difficult time in your own group. I'm just asking a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u256	No, it was not a reproach on Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u257	...and then I get a cat from Mr. Dijkhoff. I don't know him like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u258	It was more of a general remark, which I linked to the interruption of Jesse's complainant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u259	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u260	It was lame. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u261	At the beginning of his speech, Mr Dijkhoff spoke finely that he too wanted the children to have a healthy environment in the Netherlands later. He said they should be able to smell the grass. Now I have a more specific topic on Brabant. That is something Mr Dijkhoff has to address. In Brabant about half of the number of pigs is kept in the Netherlands. Half of the 13 million pigs in the Netherlands are kept in Brabant. The government agreement states that these pig farmers will be bought out for EUR 200 million if they keep their pigs in vulnerable areas. That is an excellent measure from the coalition agreement. This means that these pig farmers are bought out with taxpayers' money. Does this mean, I would ask the VVD Group, that the rights to produce are withdrawn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u262	This is a question at a technical level that I have not yet made mine. Mrs Thieme is simply better informed about this than I am. It's about a warm clean-up. A clean-up usually reduces it and not in another place anymore. That it costs tax money is one of the things that we as VVD of course didn't all come up with ourselves. But climate and sustainability ambitions often cost money. That costs tax money, it costs companies money, but also individuals, like people who notice it on their energy bill. Luckily, there's a lot on the other side. But this change in sustainability doesn't go without effort and money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u263	I understand from the words of Mr Dijkhoff that he agrees, with us, that if you clean up the pig farmers, it cannot be that somewhere else in the Netherlands with the so-called pig rights, production rights, they can start a business to pollute the place. Because that is what I hear Mr Dijkhoff say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u264	I believe that this paragraph in the coalition agreement focuses specifically on the most beautiful province in the Netherlands and not necessarily on the rest of the country. I think this is something that the Agriculture Minister, who is now full, should discuss with the sector: how exactly do you deal with this and how can you best take action? The Minister for Agriculture then comes back with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u265	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u266	It is very important to know this. It is a good thing that I inform Mr Dijkhoff that we are going to give 200 million tax dollars to pig farmers. It can't be that the pig farmers are going to start up a business somewhere in Overijssel, and that's where they're going to pollute? This would mean that we would buy out EUR 200 million for pig farmers, while the problem would simply be postponed. Mr Dijkhoff agrees with me that this is an undesirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u267	You're gonna have to look wider. If they're just across the border in Overijssel, we don't get much progress in terms of sustainability. But this is, I honestly admit, really a point from my in-work dossier, which counted 270 pages, where I didn't quite manage to memorize it. I would like to refer this question to the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u268	I have another question to ask Mr Dijkhoff on a point to which he has referred a number of times and to which he would come back in his speech, but I will be a bad listener because I have not heard it at all. He started by saying that things are going very well in the Netherlands. He said that it is almost incomprehensible that people are dissatisfied with politics and he wondered why and why people complain about it. Is he actually saying that it is wrong for people to criticize what is happening in the Netherlands or if they say that they are not yet well enough? How should I interpret Mr Dijkhoff's words?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u269	No, not at all. I note that there is a problem with the confidence of Dutch people in politics. I also note that I cannot easily derive it from a list because it is so much better in the rest of the world. Of course, people also have complaints because of their personal living conditions, but it probably has something to do with the way we deal with each other in politics. I then built my speech on that. I think that the way we do and explain things and whether or not we promise things that we can't all live up to are part of confidence. I can think of a lot of countries where, I can imagine, you complain about politics for a very long time because it is terrible there. Most of the time, in those countries, you can't complain about that and people don't complain about it. And we have it very well, but we have a problem with trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u270	If you look at all kinds of international lists, you can see that the Netherlands is doing very well in all these comparisons. But I'd rather watch what happens in society than look at those lists. If you see that children can go to school here happily, but that parents have to contribute extra money because of the privatisation in education, I get that you think: does my child still have the same chance as I do? If you see that on the one hand messages in this country are getting more expensive and on the other hand this sinterklaas gives Dijkhoff 1.4 billion to Wall Street investors, I understand that people are wondering if this government is there for them and that they are not satisfied with how things are going. We must always look at ourselves as politicians, at how we conduct the debate and at how we treat each other properly. I agree with that, but I understand that people are dissatisfied when too easily people's concerns are ignored that they cannot make ends meet because they have seen the cost of their living rise over the last few years but have not improved themselves. I understand that people say: I demand more from politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u271	I understand that, too, but I understand that it doesn't help if we take certain measures because of a fear that suits us well. Of course, it doesn't work that the VVD ever invents together with the coalition: gosh, those investors from abroad are pathetic and we're going to give money to that. We do not abolish the dividend tax out of pity. I don't even know a foreign investor. Or I don't know that it invests; let alone that I feel sorry for it. You take that measure because you're making a risk assessment. That does not sound very nice to those multinationals, so that is where Mr Klaver is going to choose where they should be. We see in countries around us, for example in Belgium, that activist shareholders put pressure on those organisations, which companies: get out of that country, go to another country. You can make two choices. You can maintain the dividend tax. I can't guarantee that this will happen and I hope not. That puts you at risk of these companies leaving. Then you have no income from the dividend tax and so you can not compensate at all. When you're not there, you don't pay taxes. And a lot of people who work there lost their jobs. That's a risk. We see what is happening in countries around us, what is happening and what is happening and there is competition. We don't need to like this competition between countries and I certainly don't like the Brexit, but I can see that it's moving. By abolishing a dividend tax, I can reduce the risk of companies leaving and I can increase the risk of companies coming. I don't even find that exciting, but these companies offer Dutch people jobs. I would rather have a Dutchman with a job without a dividend tax than a fictitious dividend tax that doesn't yield anything because companies are gone and we have to explain to people that they have become unemployed, but that our principles are still standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u272	That is a lot of words to explain exactly what the dividend tax would mean. The Central Planning Bureau has looked at this and cannot say what its effect is. It has no idea how this should contribute: the abolition of the dividend tax does not contribute to employment, as Mr Dijkhoff outlined here. I see it's not in any election program. If this reasoning is correct, it could have been in the VVD's election programme, but it is not even in its election programme. I think she understood herself that it might be a bit strange to give 1.4 billion to those foreign investors. So it has no effect. The question is, therefore, why the abolition of the dividend tax is ultimately included in such an agreement. If you look at the palette of measures, you will see that this measure is not necessary at all for employment. Mr Dijkhoff raised the issue of discontent. I saw 50,000 teachers in the Zuiderpark demonstrating to get EUR 1.4 billion for their salary and the workload in education. If development cooperation money, as the Christian Union would call it, is then given to American investors, I do not understand that choice. I understand that people in this country get angry. I get that discontent when you see that gifts like this are being given to foreign investors, while your messages are getting more expensive and the salaries in education aren't going up as far as they could. That's what politics has to charge for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u273	Mr Klaver understands this discontent, but he also feeds it by sketching a one-sided story. I'm sorry about that. His view is that the CPB cannot calculate the effect. No, there is no calculation model that shows the impact this measure has on the decision in the boardrooms in and outside the Netherlands. You can't calculate how much more likely it is now that company X is coming to the Netherlands or that company Y stays there. I think it is a bit of an economical view of Mr Klaver to limit it to that. What I do see is that we take these teachers seriously, too. That's what we're paying for. At the same time, we must also pay attention to our locational climate. That's what's in our election program. Then I'm not gonna shoot down the measures we didn't come up with on our own if they can help, because you'll have more companies. That means more people have jobs. They pay tax, they have an income from it and they can also pay the groceries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u274	The whole coalition agreement and all the measures that are being taken will always look at the effectiveness. Then we look at all the state studies. It looks at the CPB and also at all kinds of other studies to see what its effectiveness would be and whether we know whether it's going to work or not. We know from this measure on dividend taxation that it does not contribute to increasing employment. So just because he thinks there's a chance, so a chance, that we'll get companies to the Netherlands with this, Mr Dijkhoff says: that's worth me 1.4 billion euros. I cannot understand that choice, especially in the light of all the other wishes we have for our society, for example better wages in education or in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u275	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u276	From the fact that an organisation says that you cannot predict or calculate the effect, Mr Klaver makes that the measure has no effect. Those are two different things. I told you before, it's not a law of Medes and Persians. I don't mention numbers of jobs either. I only see what is happening around us: that companies leave other countries because of the location climate. Then it's a risk you're taking. It's a guess; it's an opportunity. I prefer to be safe by ensuring that we have those jobs but no dividend tax than that I will end up without dividend tax, because those companies are gone, and without jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u277	It's going to be a repeat of moves, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u278	Finally, really. So Mr Dijkhoff is actually saying here: I do not know what the effect of this dividend tax is, which costs us 1.4 billion, but I think it will create more jobs. If it is really about employment in the Netherlands, I do have an opinion for Mr Dijkhoff: invest it in defence, police and healthcare. Then you have guaranteed jobs. With that 1.4 billion saying, "I'm guessing this is gonna work out," it's not a responsible policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u279	We do all those investments that Mr Klaver calls them. He's joking about the word "gambling." That's fine. He makes a caricature of that, but Mr Klaver assumes that companies are not responding and are not mobile, that the revenue of 1.4 billion has been poured into concrete and that there are no companies that say because of the climate of establishment: perhaps we are going to settle somewhere else. Then the Dutch no longer have work there, then we have zero dividend tax revenue and then we are completely empty-handed. Then you have your principles up and running; I admit that to Mr Klaver, but I am not going to explain that to those people who have become unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u280	In between, I hear Mr Klaver in the direction of the VVD saying that more can be invested in defence. Well, that's news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u281	I can see the Secretary of Defense gloating. So that's good. Compliments for the maiden speech as group chairman, a nice general consideration with a dose of Dutch sobriety in it, but I would like to focus on the concern. That's very good indeed. We are grateful to note this, but at the same time we also see in our work visits and in conversations with citizens that unfortunately there is also a lot going wrong and that people say: yes, on your papers in The Hague it is all true, but the mental health care for my manic depressed daughter is getting more and more difficult to get or in the neighborhood care really does go wrong. How does Mr Dijkhoff deal with this from the Chamber in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u282	We need to look very closely at the fact that you are reserving the right resources, even with the ever-growing need for care. So it's going to be bake with more money anyway, because you want to keep that care for the future as well. That is also the difficult task of the health minister in our country. You should also see if it gets to the right place. That's also a big assignment we have. That is why we also have these broad agreements with the providers, because the worst thing you can do is say from The Hague 'there is a problem; there is more money here' and two years later to hear from the people that they do not know where the money has turned out but that it has not gotten better for them. You're gonna have to look closely at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u283	I hope that in practice this will also lead you to choose a dualist attitude from the Chamber and that it will not only be 'if the government agreement is properly implemented' but also to the question of how we can regain the confidence of citizens in the country in these areas over the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u284	That is dualism based on the confidence that the members of this cabinet are also fighting for the same purpose. The aim is to ensure that people who need care are given good care in such a way that we can also pay good care for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u285	I hear Mr Dijkhoff talking about confidence in politics, which is falling. That's lower than it used to be, and that's falling all over the western world. We see that as a problem. Mr Dijkhoff sees this as a problem; we see it as a problem. A very large part of the people in the Netherlands, an overwhelming part, want less Brussels. Mr Rutte wants to go to Brussels. The VVD agrees with more European Union. The majority of people in the Netherlands want less immigration. During the period you were Secretary of State, you yourself brought a record number of 333.000 non-Western immigrants to the Netherlands. Something about Switzerland. Switzerland is not in the European Union, it does not have the dramatic euro coin and it has much less immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u286	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u287	In Switzerland, 89.9% of the population have a sense of pride about their own political system. 93.7% support direct democracy and more than 80% have confidence in the government. Do you know what a difference is between Switzerland and the Netherlands? They have direct democracy there. They have binding referendums and the population participates massively in them. That's the difference. Less immigration, less EU and much more confidence in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u288	That wasn't a question. Do you want to comment on this or do you want to make a statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u289	What other elements need further explanation? What element in this don't you understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u290	I do not need a more detailed explanation from Mr Baudet of his own views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u291	Can't you see the causality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u292	No. I see the correlation. You list things and there is also a referendum. They also have other types of cheeses and cows. A referendum there is a tradition that is embedded; this way of making decisions is embedded in their history. They have also accepted that they are not a member of the EU, but a donor. Because they do want to deal with the EU. Mr Wilders' research also assumes that the rest stays together in the Union, with one large market, which the Netherlands then joins. That's what Switzerland does. They'll have nothing to say. During the Dutch Presidency, I was also able to chair meetings on migration. Then first we had a meeting with the people who decided it. After that, other countries, like Switzerland, were allowed to join. They would hear what we had just decided, and they would sign for it. I would not like to bring the Netherlands into this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u293	This is bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u294	It's the truth. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u295	Look at the amount of rules the European Union makes. This is all kept up by the European Free Trade Association in Luxembourg. For example, in the period 2000-2013 there were over 50,000. Countries such as Norway and Switzerland take over around 10% of them. So it is really bullshit that if you are not in the EU but want to deal with EU countries, you should adopt all the rules. That's just factually wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u296	What I just said was all right. If Mr Baudet wishes to clarify a specific point, I am, of course, very willing to give it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u297	I don't think this is a way to argue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u298	I have a brief question concerning Mr Dijkhoff's speech on health care. There too, the outstretched hand applies. In the neighbourhood nurses there has been enormous unrest because of the 100 million which the Central Planning Office has shown as a cut in the basic agreements. We all know that the total cost of care is increasing. That's something that needs to be dealt with. But this is a group that has very important work to do. Fortunately, 2 billion goes to the nursing homes, but now 100 million goes less than the growth would require to the district nurses, who care for three quarters of our elderly, chronically ill and disabled. So the question is: would the VVD be willing to do so, I proposed it three weeks ago, but then it wasn't so much to exempt the district nurses from that austerity, so that they could just do their job? That's heavy enough as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u299	However, I object to this reasoning. Fortunately, Mr Asscher says at some point: less more. There's still more money going to the neighborhood nursing. This will also be called for more. In the previous cabinet, too, we gave the Minister the opportunity to conclude a broad agreement. The CPB can already rely on that, but from such an agreement it came to the extent to which it managed to dampen cost growth, through innovation, to ensure that it does not remain with the provider, but really reaches the quality of care. On parts there was sometimes more money going there, like with the general practitioners. Then the agreement was that we were going to save, but there should be some more money. I'm not ruling out any of that out. I am not going to say in advance that a minister is given the task of getting a cut or, indeed, I have to say it correctly myself, to slow down growth, but to do nothing on a certain part. If it is possible in a way that is responsible, which maintains quality and also helps affordability for future generations, I do not want to cut him off in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u300	However, that is what we need to do, given the unrest that exists among neighbourhood nurses. And the following in terms of less more. How many more ministers are there now? I'd say three or four. If we were to take away Mr De Jonge's salary and say, 'Happy game, go to work', he would see it as a cut-off, but more money has been spent on ministers. In other words, these neighborhood nurses have more and more patients to take care of. That's gonna cost more money. This 100 million discount means that they have less time per patient and can offer less care per patient. Tens of thousands of signatures have already been issued because of this passage. What we do need to do today is to give the Minister that, with all the space he has to make agreements and the like, he should exempt the district nurses. That is a matter of decency towards those district nurses, but also towards our elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u301	It is also a matter of decency to stick to the facts for a while and not to say by yourself, moving on to a doomsday scenario, that this should be it. The CPB has made a calculation. It does not say in the coalition agreement that there should be 100 million of growth; that there should therefore be hundreds of millions more, but only the last 100 million. It just doesn't say that. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to conclude those agreements, and in a responsible manner. In the past it has also been possible to spend less money on something, by scaling up measures, by introducing efficiency, by introducing new means or ways of working, which did not lead to a deterioration of care. It's not a closed system here; people are listening now. If I told you in advance not to take a dime off it, I'd know that an attempt like that wouldn't work. That would be a shame to me, because as a society we would pay too much. I'm not looking to squeeze off neighborhood nurses, so that's not the point. I want to keep the quality as much as possible, but I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to start the discussion and get the best possible deal for the whole of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u302	Your last comment, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u303	The task that Mr Dijkhoff and I now have is to give this direction to the cabinet. That direction should be: no cuts on district nurses. Mr Dijkhoff is pretending that money is being wasted there. That's where they work very hard, and he knows it. So you have to give direction. So: make chords, do your best, but not at the expense of these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u304	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to go back to the issue of confidence in politics. If during the election campaign you indicate that you are going to cut 4 billion in public spending and then, after forming the government, spend 8 billion more, that does not create confidence in politics. That's also about trust in politics. Now the dividend tax, that gift of 1.4 billion euros to large companies. The CPB indicates: no economic growth, no jobs, no evidence of growth. Mr Dijkhoff pointed out that this was not in the CPB models. My question to the VVD is then: what does the VVD expect from abolishing the dividend tax for large companies and foreign shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u305	I expect it to improve our locational climate. It will have a positive impact on the choices that companies make: are we staying in the Netherlands or are we leaving; are we staying outside the Netherlands or are we going to the Netherlands? It is more likely that companies will stay and/or come, allowing the Dutch who work there to keep their jobs. That's my expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u306	In the past, we have often had debates here where different political parties really had to fight very hard for a tonne extra for a particular policy subject. We are talking about EUR 1.4 billion at the moment. Let me repeat this: EUR 1.4 billion! That's a hell of a lot of money. The argument that we are hearing now is that it can have a certain effect. Doesn't Mr Dijkhoff think that's a little skinny?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u307	No, what I think is skinny is not doing this and hoping it's gonna work out, and then having bad luck and seeing companies leave. Then there are no dividends tax revenues, because if those companies are not there, they do not pay them either. Then you have to explain to people that you had the chance to make an effort to prevent that, but they've lost their jobs. I'd say that's skinny.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u308	I think that's too big a risk. EUR 1.4 billion: we would never sign up for that. I would like to ask one last specific question. What can we charge this government with regard to the VVD when it comes to the locational climate? I understand that you cannot say that one-two-three here, but I would ask you, with us or with other political parties who are in the opposition and have made this a major point, to give a concrete result as a mission to this government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u309	I do not know very well from Mr Kuzu's question. I can't quite place the answer he wants to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u310	Mr Kuzu, you may explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u311	It's a yes or no. Is the VVD prepared to provide the cabinet or the new government with a checkable result in relation to the choice made to abolish the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u312	If Mr Kuzu with a proposal... I simply cannot imagine a checkable result of the effects of the dividend tax. If companies that pay them and those foreign investors that benefit from them all stay, I'm sure someone will say that they would have. I can't guarantee they'll stay now. It is not that it is in a model, that so many tax companies stay or do not. People make those choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u313	In conclusion, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u314	Unfortunately, I can only conclude that this is a waste of money, which is paid by tax-paying Dutch people. I thought this was also a group that the VVD stood up for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u315	The risk with that dividend tax is much greater. Mr Dijkhoff says that they want to prevent companies from leaving. Where would they go? The countries around us all have dividend taxes, even higher than in the Netherlands. The countries around us have a higher tax on profits for large companies than the Netherlands has. With this proposal, you're trying to get English companies this way, in a war on the lowest taxes. It's a race to the bottom. You're trying to create a tax war to bring companies to the Netherlands. That's what the Cabinet's gonna do. The effect is that the countries around us that see this happening might do the same. Already we see that only 7% of our tax revenues come from companies. It was much more in the past. With your measures, it's gonna be even less. Such a tax war will contribute even less to the quality of society. Does Mr Dijkhoff see that risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u316	Of course I see that phenomenon. That is the reason for supporting this. In the supermarket war there will also be an entrepreneur who says: I wish there wasn't, then I could keep doing it the way I did it. But yes, if they do start it around you, you can basically say that you think it's wrong and that you don't participate in it, but you'll end up with the shortest. I don't like it either. I'm not in principle in favour of a race to the bottom on taxes. I can only see the mobility of people, companies and capital flows. I think it is our responsibility, even if you don't always like it or honestly, to ensure that the Netherlands comes out as well as possible and that as many Dutch people as possible have a job. That's what I'm doing, not because I like that this is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u317	The cabinet is starting a tax war in Europe. It starts first with abolishing the dividend tax. Maybe that's what's gonna make others follow. We lack 1.4 billion tax revenues from foreign investors. With that income, we keep our society in order. That account is placed one-on-one with the care, the police officers, the elderly and the Wajangers. That's what we were all talking about. They're gonna pay that bill. It now starts with 1.4 billion in dividend tax that is going to be abolished. It starts with a substantial reduction in the tax on profits for large companies. People are gonna pay that bill. The follow-up will be that other countries think they should participate. The Netherlands is starting a tax war, a race to the bottom. We shouldn't do that. Knock it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u318	I've been hearing the SP talk about this phenomenon going on for years. So I don't think we're starting that now. We are also doing the things that are good for employment and jobs in the Netherlands. I'd like to hold on to that. I wouldn't want to save principles, sacrifice jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u319	That's bullshit. Jobs are created in healthcare. After 77,000 people have lost their jobs, we are now begging for care. Let's invest in that. We're gonna need more teachers for the class. Let's invest in that. Those 60,000 people were on the field here in The Hague for a reason. They want co-workers on a regular paycheck. We are not going to pay them because you want to abolish the dividend tax which is still 25% in Germany, 90% in Belgium, 30% in France and 26% in Italy. You want to go to zero! You start a tax war in favour of big business, for investors, and you take it away from the people who need it the most here in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u320	All those people in the care, education, police, defence and politics, including Mr Roemer and myself, make their money out of taxpayers' money that has to be created first. I'll pay taxes on my paycheck, but I'll get it out of the taxpayers' money first. Then you'll have to have companies to lift it. You can charge 100% tax on paper, but if a company says, "Though and thank you, I'm off," then 100% of zero is also zero and then you can't pay any nurse or police officer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u321	Mr Roemer, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u322	Then raise it. It is not just taxing the people at home; it is not just taxing small and medium-sized enterprises; it is also asking banks, large multinationals and investors. Don't go there to zero. Moreover, the Netherlands already has a fantastic investment or location climate. 80 of the 100 largest American companies are in the Netherlands. I'll add: most of them on the Zuidas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u323	I would also like to keep it that they stay here, because that is what the Dutch work for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u324	And so you're starting a tax war.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u325	For the VVD this was quite the right half towards the tax environment for business. All kinds of other measures that we have not mentioned for a moment will, on balance, lead to an increase in taxes on business. You lift it where you can lift it. If you keep sending a blue letter to an address where no one is left, you won't get paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u326	What everyone in Europe is afraid of is that there will be a tax war to get multinationals in certain countries. The Netherlands will start the tax war with this. Please, let's not get into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u327	Do I understand now, Mr Dijkhoff, that you say that I would be happy to invest the 1.4 billion in something that I do not know what the result is when I want to give less money to community nursing, when we know what the results will be? Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u328	No. We're gonna have more money every year to go to community nursing. What we also want is that we set up the care we need more and more in such a way that it is well delivered and that people who work in it get a decent salary and we as taxpayers do not pay too much in addition to what remains in between. Because we also want to ensure that future generations continue to provide good care and keep it affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u329	And yet we all know that those neighborhood nurses are already at the top of their capacity and that they are already doing everything they can do. And you say to them, "Watch the place for a while and not really be there anymore." And to business, you say, please, 1.4 billion and we don't know what the result is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u330	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u331	Mr. Klaver, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u332	Mrs Arib, Chairman, I had one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u333	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u334	Oh, yeah. Mr Dijkhoff and I clashed when it comes to dividend taxation and, in fact, the whole way you look at capital and labour. Our economic views are at odds with each other, but I would like to touch on one point, which was not so much about in Mr Dijkhoff's contribution, and that is sustainability. I note with the VVD that there is a turning point on this point and that the importance is also seen there, as the Prime Minister also stated in the government statement, that we are taking major steps in tackling climate change. One of the concrete issues mentioned in the coalition agreement is that there should be a climate law. Now there is a climate law in this Chamber, signed by five parties. Since Mr Dijkhoff spoke of the importance of cooperation, my very specific question to him is whether he is prepared to discuss it in order to see if we are also able to take that law further from the Chamber. For our part, we are ready to discuss, of course, the objectives set out therein.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u335	I would like to broaden the discussion and also involve those responsible in the cabinet. Then we can work on a law together. I am concerned that this law is good and that we support it in substance. I find the origin less relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u336	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u337	I promised you one question, and it's a good answer. I look forward to working together with both the VVD and the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u338	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-3.u339	We will begin work after the suspension and then continue this debate.
