ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance and give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck as the first speaker on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Trust in the future. That is the title of the coalition agreement. But much more importantly today is: does the citizen have confidence in this cabinet, in the cabinet plans? Because almost 60% of people have little or no confidence in it. A survey by EenVandaag showed that. In recent years, citizens have been systematically lied to, fooled and squeezed. They don't trust politics. And when you ask people what they think of Rutte III's plans, the answer is nice talk and promises, but we don't believe it. They don't believe Mark Rutte anymore. That says more than half. And rightly so. Since the introduction of the euro in 2002, the economy has grown by more than 20%, but citizens' real disposable income barely increased. The citizens of this country have been cut off for more than 15 years. The economy is growing, but citizens hardly benefit from it. The worst thing is that the policies of recent years have made people have to turn in even more. This was the wrong turn, which has cost us 6% of economic growth and hundreds of thousands of jobs. I hope that this new finance minister does not make the same mistakes. Anyway, I can't charge him. Then the purchasing power. Two examples. Since 2013, a household with a moderate income has had to give up as much as €500 in purchasing power. This year, that family received €1 per month. Next year this family can return €12 per month. That's gonna make a lot of sense. Another example. A single AOW member with a small supplementary pension of €15,000 has been able to turn in as much as €1,500 since the arrival of Rutte II. And what does the cabinet have in store for this AOWer? Next year the disposable income increases by as much as €3 per month. And in the rest of the cabinet period, the rise is 0.0. A slap in the face. Is the minister gonna fix this? The cabinet danced on the benches two weeks ago when the Nibud came out with numbers: everyone was getting ahead in 2021. Yeah, that's how I can do it. In four years' time we may be making some progress and that will be presented cumulatively. As the economy grows this year by 3.3% and next year by more than 3%, citizens will be allocated a purchasing power of half a percent, this year by 0.3%, next year by 0.6%. Or a tenner a month. And that should make us happy. But wait, civilians, in 2021 the sun will shine. However, for the attentive reader, wages must rise by more than 3% a year. On average, wages rose by 1.3% over the last four years. So how realistic is this? Aren't people happy with a dead sparrow? If wages do not rise by 3%, then these beautiful purchasing power cards suddenly look very different. Can the Minister confirm that? Can the Minister present the purchasing power figures if, for example, wages would rise by 1%? Everyone's gonna dive in. Do you think it's weird that this cabinet isn't being believed by anyone? And then there is the reduction in charges which does not appear to be a reduction in charges. We can read in the starting note that the burden on families is not going down this cabinet period, but going up. The cabinet calls on all sides to reduce the burden on citizens by 5 billion, but on second thought this is a big pacifier. The loads do not go down; they go up less. Tell the honest story, Minister. In contrast to the reduction in the burden, care premiums are raised by nearly 5 billion and a legacy of the previous cabinet of 3 billion. On balance, therefore, the burden on families is not reduced but increased. I am not even talking about the sustainability bonus that we will have in the years to come, up to 3.3 billion. That is €250 per household, which is added to the figure and which is not reflected at all in the figures. In addition, Mr President, the 5 billion reduction had already been paid in due to the previous housing measures law of 2013. The Minister only brings it forward and now sells it as new money. You pack an old present and present it as a new gift from this cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The burden will be increased even after 2021. The transfer of the CPB shows that there is a structural burden increase for families of 1.2 billion. No load relief; after 2021 you will also increase the burden. The Council of State is even talking about an increase of 7 billion after 2021. The promise that the burden on families will go down appears to be three times based on quicksand. Why doesn't this minister tell the fair story? Do you find it strange that no one believes this cabinet anymore? Then I'll come up with the cigars from my own box. This minister gives with one hand and takes with the other hand. You are supposed to lower income tax, but at the same time increase VAT on groceries. You freeze your own risk, but at the same time increase the premium by €300. You lower your own house fee, but then you demolish the mortgage interest deduction. You reduce the income tax for SMEs, but at the same time increase the box 2 rate. You reduce the cost of care, but do not let the citizen benefit from it, by increasing the basic rate of income tax. In the end, all of us are not going to get anywhere. You play ball-ball with the measures and present cigars from your own box. People are poking through this. Do you find it strange that no one believes the cabinet anymore? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the government is as unreliable as the plague. We are all talking about confidence in politics, but with a cabinet that is constantly unreliable, it is very difficult to work on that image. First it was: hands off the mortgage interest deduction. Then it was: the mortgage interest deduction is like a house. Then the mortgage interest deduction was cut in 30 years and Mark Rutte said: this is it, this is what we are going to do for the next 30 years, and you can now decide on the basis of this tax information. You must have only bought a house. Now, four years later, the mortgage interest rate deduction is further accelerated. The same applies to the Hills Act. First seduce people to unload their homes quickly and then destroy the settlement again. As with the mortgage interest rate deduction, it is promised to be phased out slowly in thirty years, but I assure you: at the next cabinet period, when there is another Mark Rutte at the table, it happens in four years, as with the mortgage interest rate deduction. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the wrong choices. This cabinet makes the wrong choices. It has faith in the future, but it stands alone. The citizens have little confidence in it. They're stuck with the hangover of five years of Rutte II. Their wallet has been looted, social security has been lost and they have little faith in their pension, in their job, in the WW and in the affordability of their home and care. People have less and less faith in the future. Once again, the cabinet makes the wrong choices. The cabinet abolishes the dividend tax: a gift of 1.4 billion for foreign investors. But why is unclear. No one can say that this is a good measure. It is good for maintaining the jobs and it is important for our locational climate, says Mark Rutte. But this hasn't been proven. The CPB also sees no positive impact on employment and the economy. So the cabinet gives 1.4 billion as a gift to abroad and hopes for a positive effect; that's a gamble. Or is there a fear that these companies will go to the fiscally attractive United Kingdom? Because that doesn't have a dividend tax either. It also seems to be the case that foreign investors, US investors, can offset the dividend tax with their income and profit tax in the US. That would mean that not the investor, but the US treasury would be exploited. Is that sometimes the intention, I ask this Minister. The PVV says stop that bullshit! Instead of baking the big multinationals and investors with 5 billion, we prefer to give that money back to the people in this country. They need some more air and some more money in the wallet. We can do this by reversing nonsensical tax increases such as VAT, flight tax, energy tax and the Hills Act and then leaving the mortgage interest deduction alone. It's a choice, Mr. Chairman. With the multinationals and the Goldman Sachsen of this world, you really don't have to feel sorry for them. The choice is: do you choose to reduce the burden on the citizen or on the multinationals? The PVV chooses the citizen. The cabinet also opts for open borders and hopes that Europe can stop the asylum system. That's naive and stupid at the same time. The PVV says: close the borders today and use the billions that will then be released to keep care affordable for our own people, by removing one's own risk and reducing the premium. It's a choice: do you choose asylum or do you choose care? The PVV chooses care. And stop pumping our billions into Africa, almost 4 billion. It doesn't work and it ends up in the wrong pockets of corrupt regimes right there. Use that money so we can get back to normal at 65! The whole of the Netherlands is pleased with this, because the whole of the Netherlands now has to work two years longer so that the government can continue sending billions to Africa. Mr President, it is a choice: do you choose a decent retirement age or do you choose Africa? The PVV opts for the retirement age of 65. The cabinet also has a surplus on the budget of nearly 4 billion. That's too much taxpayers' money, citizens' money, not this minister's money. So give me that money back! Lower the rents, invest it in safety. It's a choice, president: do you opt for lower rents or do you opt for a budget surplus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr President, thank you. I hear Mr Van Dijck talking about the fair story and the retirement age of 65. You would almost think it would be fantastic if the PVV could join a cabinet once, but when the PVV participated in the cabinet as a tolerating partner in 2010, they took two striking measures. One of these measures was the fine for long-term students and the second was the pension agreement. That cost $4 billion. This was supported by Mr Van Dijck's party and the retirement age went from 65 to 66. How does Mr van Dijck look back on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	Yes, chairman, perhaps the party DENK could join a cabinet once more. I hope not, but if you're in a cabinet, you'll make concessions and then you'll put water on the wine to get somethin'. But we're still standing by it. If we had reached 67 seats and had a majority, we still had the AOW age 65. We think 65 is a nice AOW age. And even more so, it was only 66! Now it's going to 67, 68, and by the time you retire, it's probably 70. So looking back: if you're going to join a cabinet, you're going to have to add water to your wine and of course you don't get everything you have in your election program. That seems obvious to me, but looking back, I had hoped it would have stayed 65. We would still have many wishes in relation to today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	Perhaps Mr Van Dijck will be able to look at this cabinet with more realism and realize what he did in 2010, namely from the sidelines very easily. That can be done by any party that does not participate and takes no responsibility. But it is the pot that blames the kettle: you stood as a PVV at the cradle of the increase from 65 to 66 and now you say that you had not done so with 76 seats. That's just a bullshit argument, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr President, it is a choice. Either you opt for a decent retirement age or you opt for development aid to Africa. When we negotiated, we made sure that development aid fell significantly. So we got money off because of it. We say: if we get 76 seats, and I hope that this will be the case soon, then there will be no development aid of 4 billion more, but we will choose the AOW age and we will have it properly covered. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the pointless public expenditure, the subsidies that I have been concerned about for 11 years. Billions are spent on grants for innovation and climate; more than 3 billion. The General Court recently found that they were not proven to be effective. Stop it and spend the money on real relief. Do you opt for lower costs for citizens or subsidies to large companies? And then there's the expat arrangement. Almost the entire Chamber, excluding the VVD, agrees that this expat arrangement is an unfair arrangement that is non-effective. The scheme discriminates against the ordinary Dutchman, because why does a foreign employee not have to pay taxes on the first 30%, but do the Dutch have to? That's discrimination. The PVV has long wanted to get rid of this unfair arrangement. It is not effective and, moreover, it is susceptible to fraud. Use that money to reverse the cuts in domestic aid, for example. That's both exactly 600 million. I remember last week's Political Reviews, where the PvdA was knocking on their chests about nursing care. But the measure of domestic aid, introduced by the PvdA itself, has been halved. All these people are obliged to live at home but can't even pay for the cleaning aid. Last week, the leader of the PVV, Mr Wilders, read an e-mail from a 88-year-old man who was cashing in his funeral policy to pay for the cleaning aid. That's where we live. We say: do you choose the domestic help, the home help, or the expats? We choose housekeeping. The Chamber is full of elderly care, but as long as pensioners have to cash in their policies, there is something wrong in this country. Mr President, they are choices. The cabinet makes the wrong choices, which are of no use to citizens in this country. The only beneficiaries of this cabinet policy are the large multinationals and foreign investors. We just saw that the foreign treasure chests are the only real winners of this Rutte III cabinet. And then you find it crazy, Chairman, that no one believes this cabinet. Finally, a few factual questions for this new minister. How is unemployment rising again at the end of this cabinet period, from 355.000 in 2018 to 385.000 in 2021? According to the CPB, there are no less than 30,000 more unemployed. I thought the cabinet stood for jobs, but the cabinet apparently demolished 30,000 jobs with its policy. I would like to hear an explanation of this. The next question is: what is actually the healthcare premium in 2021? We know that the healthcare premium is going up €300 because of the freezing of one's own risk, but then we read in the start note that care premiums would go up by 5 billion anyway. What does that mean for the people and how much will they pay for the healthcare premium in 2021? Finally, a question about our gold supply. The Netherlands has 612 tons of gold. The question of the PVV is: where exactly is that gold stored? We have been calling for attention to be given to this for some time now. Why isn't that gold being taken back to the Netherlands? Germany recovered 216 tons last year. Austria also recovered 15 tonnes last year. Is the minister gonna get our gold back? Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, welcome to the two directors who, I believe, are present for the first time in plenary today. At least I want to wish them luck. Mrs. Leijten is at the interrupting microphone, but should I just start? Mr. Chairman. The outsider who listened to the General Political Reviews last week got a very gloomy picture of the Netherlands from some parties. And that is completely wrong: the Netherlands is one of the most beautiful countries in the world. But it's definitely not finished yet. That is also what this cabinet must now work hard on. This cabinet starts completely different from the previous cabinet. In 2012, we were in the midst of a severe economic crisis. The economy was shrinking, unemployment was rising, the housing market was falling apart and many houses were under water. The government spent a lot more money than she got in. The government debt was too high and went up fast. Major measures were needed. Everyone felt that they were taken. That period is skeptical at the moment. The Netherlands is doing well. The economy is growing. The number of jobs is increasing; there have never been as many as now. And unemployment is falling. People are buying a house again and there is a budget surplus. And the government debt is also decreasing. So there's a solid job done. The economy is not ruined, as some parties in this house claim. On the contrary, we are much stronger than most people thought possible in 2012. And that is certainly not only the merit of the previous cabinet and all the constructive parties that have contributed to it. First of all, it is the merit of all hard-working Dutch and entrepreneurs, who have had a hard time in the crisis but have continued to do so. However, the fact that the Netherlands is doing better is not yet felt by everyone. We want to get to work to solve the problems that many ordinary Dutch people have to deal with. That starts with the fact that Dutch people must also feel the good figures and the pluses in their wallets through tax reduction. Most groups, but especially the middle groups and families, will benefit from this. Purchasing power is increasing. This means that a family with a middle income will have more left and some extra money, for example to do some nice things more often. But even if you're looking for another job, you're not going backwards. In the coming years, most Dutch households will benefit, on average 1.1% per year. But what do these numbers say now? That's what the Nibud clearly shows us. A family with working parents, a modal salary and a child simply has €200 per month to spend more by the cabinet measures. A single worker with a modal salary will improve €168. Mr President, we believe that work should pay off again. We are doing this by reducing the burden on labour by EUR 7.5 billion in this cabinet period. We focus on workers, middle income and families. And we also make more wages work by gradually reducing the rent payment, so that if you earn a few more euros a year, you don't lose your rent payment in one go. And I understand perfectly well that people say, "See first, then believe." In Fryslân, they would say, "It's mei sizzen just too mad." It is therefore up to this cabinet to make that happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	I see that Mr Nijboer wants to ask a question, but I would first like to look at Mrs Leijten, who was here a while earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, Mr President, because I would have liked to put a question to her at the beginning of Mrs De Vries' speech. She never wanted to know about the tax arrangements made by the Tax Administration with companies, because she said it was all good and all necessary for the establishment climate. And now there's a message from the Secretary of State. He says: yes, I'm going to check out all 4,000, because we can't say for sure that it's all been as decent as it's been proposed. What exactly does the VVD think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	We are still very much in favour of these tax arrangements. They'll give you security in advance. Basically, it's nothing but being judged afterwards. And that must of course be done in a good way. There is the four-eyed principle. We have also made the agreement that some of those rulings are being reviewed every year. As a result of the new developments, the Secretary of State has once again promised that he will look at almost all of them, so all 4,000 of them. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	We never had to know, because it was good. The first ruling that becomes public is no good. And at the same time, we have to keep doing it. We have actually seen two examples of those rulings, namely those of Starbucks and now those of Procter & Gamble. They're both actually not properly judged. One was so judged by the European Commission and the other by the government itself. Wouldn't it be very wise for us to just stop issuing those rulings until we know for sure that the practice in which they are agreed, and the agreements that are made, can be accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	Not as far as I'm concerned. I think rulings also provide a lot of information for the Tax Administration. That information would all be missing the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	I always find it so amazing that the VVD wants to know all about citizens; everything! But now it's about what the Tax Administration does here with our money, or with money that we all miss out on because companies think: yes, the Netherlands is a fine country in the world if you want to pay as little tax as possible. If that's what it's about, it's all for the VVD. I would like to propose, and I am going to propose this to the Secretary of State, to stop issuing these rulings now, first to see if it is true what is happening, to make agreements on how we can control it, and then to have the Tax Administration explain the red carpet again to multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	I think this is more of a comment than a question. I'm sticking to my point of view. I think we should just continue to make those tax arrangements. I think that extra information will provide the tax authorities. The assessment must be that way, I think it is good that the Secretary of State will once again check that the agreements are as laid down in the laws and regulations and that the ex ante assessment is no different from the ex post assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	We are going to talk about the dividend tax in a moment, but I heard Mrs De Vries say warm words about tenants and the rent surcharge. What I find really incomprehensible is that in these times this cabinet cuts €146 a year on tenants, on the rent surcharge. Why did the cabinet choose to do this when affordable housing is really a big problem for people? It's very expensive and the rents are rising. Why does the VVD choose that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	I think I mentioned that the rent allowance is being reduced more slowly. I think that Mr Nijboer is also very much in favour of this, because then you are tackling the poverty trap. And yes, those are choices we made. You're making very different choices. For example, your plan will reduce 70,000 jobs. I think it would be better for people to have a job than for us to have a whole debate about this choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	I understand that Mrs De Vries prefers not to talk about tenants; in the coalition agreement there is almost nothing about it either. But they're just cutting down on tenants. That's 3 million people. 40% of the people in the Netherlands live in a rental house. That's just being cut back by this cabinet, in these times. With buyers it is: ooh, wet-hillen. We are also going to talk a lot about this. Each euro must return euro for euro to the buyers but the tenants just leave you in the cold. My question is very simple: why do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	I always like it when parties take one measure out of the overall package. I think you should look at the overall picture and what consequences that has for certain groups. I think it is true that most tenants are also making progress with the cabinet's plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	The government's plans have been passed on. It is very clear from that that buyers are compensated one-on-one.The VVD is also proud of that, that the home forfait goes down and that tenants are really put at a disadvantage. Buyers advance twice as much as tenants if you take everything together and the rent supplement is just cut. I really think that's an antisocial choice from the upcoming cabinet. That can be taken off the table, but I don't hear a lot of enthusiasm from the VVD to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	Selective shopping in a large amount of measures is very easy. Please look at the overall picture. Also look at the Nibud bills. I think that you are coming to a different conclusion than just looking at this particular measure. This applies to many groups: look at the total package. With this coalition agreement we are going to solve very concrete problems that ordinary Dutch people have to deal with. That's why we also invest heavily in security and defence, for example, because you don't need increased economic growth when you feel unsafe in your neighborhood. Our country must be resilient to threats to our security, to crime and to terrorism. We also invest in the elderly, because what good is a budget that is in order if the nursing home where your father or mother sits is bad? That's why we're paying 2.1 billion for that. We also increase the elderly discount, so that our older people have more to spend. We are going to reduce older people's own contribution by reducing wealth income inclusion in long-term care and a subscription rate in the Social Support Act. What good are all these good grades if your kids don't have a good school? That's why we're investing in better education. When you've taken your kids to school, you don't want to spend hours in traffic at work. That's why we're investing in it. Mr. Chairman. This is also the cabinet that exists for entrepreneurs, for businesses, for small businesses and for large companies, for start-ups, scale-ups and for companies that have been around for years, for entrepreneurs with a lot of staff but also forzzp'ers. They need to be given space, because they make sure that the Netherlands is doing well, that people have a job and that as a government we can invest in care and security with tax money at all. Because it starts with business and the jobs that it creates. That is why we think it is so important that companies are so eager to settle in our country. In our opinion, an attractive locational environment consists of several aspects. First of all, good education, well-educated staff and good infrastructure. That's what we're investing in. But the companies must also be given the space to undertake. We are taking measures that hinder small businesses. The second year of payment in the case of sickness is deleted. We're adjusting the firing right so that more people can get on permanent duty. We'll make the Wet work and security workable. We give more room for fixed and flexible contracts, so that employers offer people a job earlier. Obligatory rules are deleted. We provide an attractive location and investment environment and reduce corporate tax for large and small companies and remove the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	And I don't understand anything about the latter. Why should foreign investors from China, Korea and Russia receive 1.4 billion, while ordinary SMEs receive the VVD, party of the ordinary entrepreneurs, 98% of the companies are mbk companies get a VAT increase, a higher tax on family businesses from 25% to 28.5% and even a higher tax burden in the lowest segment? Why does the VVD opt for multinationals and investors and so on against SMEs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	I believe that I have just mentioned a number of measures, including those in social security, which we believe we are certainly in favour of small businesses. We also reduce the low corporate tax rate. And I have to say, I think it's a very false contradiction from the PvdA to say that it's only about big companies. That's not true. It is about large companies, it is about small companies, but it is mainly about the people who work there. Make sure they have a job, make sure they can earn their income and have a nice life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	Most people and most companies in the Netherlands are SMEs. They are presented by this cabinet with a VAT increase of 3%. Most people work there. And the dividend tax, 1.4 billion, goes to foreign investors. What is the problem with this? Which shareholder gets too little return? Why has an entrepreneurial party like the VVD no longer chosen SMEs and so on for those foreign investors? That doesn't help the economy, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	Again, here again the PvdA is not going to look at the overall picture. You can mention the VAT scheme, but you have to look at what people ultimately have to spend, you have to look at the overall package of measures. It's really not like we've come up with this: gee, guys, that's great fun, let's meet these foreign investors and investors. What we are going for is a good package for business, in which we want to improve the location and investment environment. Ultimately, the goal is those jobs, where people work, where suppliers also have an important role to play in these large companies, where, for example, cleaning must be done, where catering must be done. So you shouldn't evoke that contradiction, it's en-and.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u28	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u29	I understand very well that Mrs De Vries does not want to talk about this measure because it is indefenable, because today's study by De Telegraaf shows that nine out of ten economists really do not know any arguments for doing so, because the CPB says that it does not provide employment at all. And there are other measures, which I am asking you about, which do create jobs. Then why don't you choose it? Why do you choose that gift to those foreign investors and not something that gives us something for SMEs, not a VAT increase, but investing in people's wages? Why don't you choose that? That can be done for the same money and it is much better for the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u30	I would very much like to talk about this measure. I think we are. You can wave an article from De Telegraaf this morning, I can wave with an article from the Algemeen Dagblad, with approval for abolishing the dividend tax. I can even refer to a PvdA member who is in favour of abolishing the dividend tax. It was a predecessor of Mr Nijboer, I can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u31	We have a hunch. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u32	I found the article in De Telegraaf this morning quite telling. There is actually no economist, no expert to be found who can come up with a reasonable argument as to why the dividend tax should be abolished. Your group chairman mentioned a guess last week. How do you assess this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u33	As I have already said, it is a package of measures for us. We believe that a good investment and location climate is important. We do that for the real companies, for the real jobs and for the people in the country. I regret that GroenLinks is apparently only working to break down the locational climate. I have to say, I have heard a lot of economists in the past, which was in 2012 when they said that we were going to cut the country down. Look at the state of the country now. It just didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u34	All answers to questions I haven't asked. May I present something to Mrs De Vries? We see an increase in resistance to this measure. We see that experts cannot come up with a logical argument as to why it is necessary. Take the previous coalition agreement. A rebellion in the VVD constituency was then enough to change the coalition agreement. Is Mrs De Vries prepared to adapt this coalition agreement to this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u35	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u36	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u37	I can make a proposal. Last week it was about cracks, about doors that are on a crack, about outstretched hands. There is resistance to abolishing the dividend tax "why should that money go to foreign investors and foreign tax authorities?" In addition, there is resistance to the increase in VAT. People's messages are getting more expensive. I see an exchange there. Is there any way to talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u38	It is very special that GroenLinks says that she does not want to make the messages more expensive, while in her own election programme there is 1 billion increase in VAT. As far as the overall package is concerned, the following. It is not for nothing that there has been such a long talk of a balanced package. You're saying a hand out of hand. That really does not mean that we are going to say in every debate: well, then let's get this measure off and on the next budget that measure. This has been considered. A balanced package has been drawn up. A choice has been made: we want an attractive location and investment environment. On the other hand, we want to tackle companies that are not really a company, companies without jobs, when it comes to tax avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u39	However, about the 1.4 billion dividend tax. Last week I noticed that especially Rutte always lays down immediately. Then we get some kind of schwalbe. The PVV talked about honesty. Mrs. De Vries, just be honest. Pechtold, Buma and Mr. Dijkhoff said last week: we just don't know; we do and we hope it works out well. You're standing there defending it in a way that's really invaluable. Just state it wasn't examined, unsubstantiated. Economists have looked into it. It wasn't in your election program and it wasn't in the election program of the other parties, it was nowhere. It's a VNO-NCW proposal. It was not only abolishing it, it was also able to live with a reduction. Then why defend it this way, Mrs De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u40	I think we should not close our eyes to what is happening in the rest of the world. Of course, we are also dealing with a Brexit and there are all kinds of developments in America. They also affect companies based here in the Netherlands. We believe it is important that we maintain an attractive locational environment, that we keep the companies here and that, if necessary, even more companies are attracted to it. This is about jobs, about jobs for your voters, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u41	You're really full of shit, Mrs. De Vries. If you do not pay a dividend tax here, you simply pay it in the other country where you are resident. This is a gift for big countries. This is not a gift for investors, as has just been said. If you do not pay here, you pay in the other country. With your partner, the Christian Union, this was also described as development cooperation money for large investors abroad, in this case for large companies. You make the same schwalbe, you lie down right away. The location climate in the Netherlands is fine. We have very attractive corporate tax levels and we have an attractive dividend tax. There's no point in abolishing it. Another schwalbe of yours. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u42	I think you're the football player in the company. I think you'd rather make a schwalb.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u43	Also about the dividend tax. It wasn't in any of the coalition party election programs. We know that VNO-NCW proposed it, but the question remains as follows. If you are playing cards and negotiating with each other for months, who will finally come up with the proposal to abolish it altogether? Doesn't the top negotiator, Rutte, realize that he's transferring 1.4 billion dollars to the tax office abroad? It's actually a gift from Rutte to President Trump's treasury. Did he realize that? Can you explain that to the citizen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u44	I think everyone knows that the dividend tax is a withholding tax. Again, I'm not going to join the company game "who brought in what and how did that go?'. Then as parties, you should have just sat down at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u45	I can't get an answer. My question was whether the Prime Minister of this new cabinet, also in his role as negotiator before this cabinet was there, realized that he is giving 1.4 billion to the tax authorities of a number of countries where these shareholders live, especially to the US tax authorities. Did he realize that? Why didn't he ask that, before you do, you still have to have a decent foundation with a bill from the Planning Bureau? A reduction in corporation tax can be imagined, and it is also being reduced, but do you also need to lower the dividend tax on top of that? Isn't enough enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u46	It's always complicated to speak for someone else. But I think you have understood very clearly that the Prime Minister understands what that measure means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u48	I thought that was a weak defense. He couldn't back it up and admitted it was a gamble. We all call that an expensive gamble by now. I think that's irresponsible. The VVD must ask itself again whether this was a sensible proposal after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u49	I have to say quite frankly that I would find it much worse if companies leave the Netherlands and we miss jobs, after which the entire opposition starts crying crocodile tears again when a company leaves the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u50	The VVD talks about employment. The multinationals in this country are now getting a present. Over the past decades, Dutch multinationals have relocated around 75% of their employment from the Netherlands to low-wage countries. They are not that sacred when it comes to employment. But when it comes to employment, I would like to ask Mrs De Vries whether she thinks a job in care, education or safety in our country is worth more or less than a job through a multinational.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u51	I find a job in health care, a job as a policeman, another job in government or publicly funded jobs as important as jobs in the free sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u52	Police officers disappear. People in care have disappeared in the past cabinet period; 77.000! Teachers stop because they can no longer do their job and cannot train the future of our country properly. And what does the VVD do? He thinks, "God, we're giving 1.4 billion to companies!" Then you'll make a choice. Then you tell the teacher, the nurse and the police officer: we think the profits of companies are more important than your work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u53	I really like the fact that the SP is going to take me on board here, because when I look at the passing on of the left-hand plan, I see quite different figures. You're just gonna hit all the workers when it comes to purchasing power. Indeed, we do not choose to do so, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u54	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u55	It is good that Mrs De Vries is calling in the bill. We have more jobs at the end of the cabinet period because we invest in care, education and safety. We have a higher purchasing power because we do not allow the additional tax increase on groceries to continue. That's all in there. We also reduce inequality in the country. Inequality is something people worry about. We make other choices, which actually lead to a better Netherlands. But we were talking about the dividend tax. You refer to the transfer of our plan, in which we do not give a gift to companies, but I ask you the following question. If the teachers stop because they can't do the job anymore, if the nurses say they're going to die from the job and that they don't have enough colleagues, why should they? So the VVD chooses to give 1.4 billion to large international companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u56	I like the story, but you have to tell the whole picture. You should also tell them that we're investing in nursing care, you should tell them that we're investing in Defense, you should tell them that we're investing in the police. So you don't have to tell me that picture. I have had very short time to look at your proposals and their transfer through the CPB, but I think they are going to cost 70,000 jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u58	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u59	No, Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u60	That's in 2060.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u61	You can correct that if you need to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's because we say people can stop working sooner. The CPB assumes that everyone is available for the labour market, i.e.: the longer you work, the more jobs there are. That's not true. We're gonna get people to stop working sooner. In 2060 there will be 70,000 fewer people available for the labour market. That's something other than less jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u63	I do not think this is right and Mrs Leijten should read it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u64	Let us be clear: this dividend measure is simply a silly measure. My question to Mrs De Vries is whether she recognizes that this gift that one pretends to give to the shareholder flows directly into the treasury of many countries with which we have a treaty. You're just saying it's a withholding tax. Then why is the VVD fond of this? Suppose it would help to encourage those shareholders and investors to invest in the Netherlands, wouldn't that have any effect if it went to the treasury of the country where they live at a time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u65	No, I am well aware that it is a levy. I have already pointed out to you and to some of your colleagues that this is a total package of measures that we want to take for the establishment and investment environment and for businesses. This is one of them, but it certainly includes the reduction of corporate tax and the elimination of risks for companies, for example in social security by adapting the Work and Security Act and the payment of sickness payments in the second year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u66	I'm not asking for any of that. I say, if it would help to stimulate that investor to invest in the Netherlands, then you want to do something for that investor. Now you're doing something. That costs 1.4 billion, but you do not do that for the investor, because the country where the investor lives takes that money in the post-tax in the ib and the profit tax. In other words, you give that to the treasury of that country. As a result, no investor comes to the Netherlands more. You will only receive a thank you from Mrs Merkel or Mr Trump: thank you for the 1.4 billion. Is that the purpose of the VVD now? You must know the consequences of your policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u67	We do this for our location and investment environment, for maintaining businesses here and for attracting new businesses. We do that for the jobs of those people, so they can earn their living there, Mr. Van Dijck. You should also attach a little more importance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u68	Finally, Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u69	I'm starting to get a little annoyed. If you come up with a measure that does nothing for that locational environment and for those jobs, you can also dump 1.4 billion in the North Sea and say: I do so for jobs and for the climate of establishment. It does nothing for the jobs and the climate of establishment. You have thrown 1.4 billion of our precious taxpayers' money into the North Sea: away, on the bottom, for the fish. Is that what you want? That's what you have to tell the voters: I washed away 1.4 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u70	I keep repeating myself: we are doing this for the real jobs and for the people in this country. Then this isn't money that's been thrown away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u71	I note that there is a lot of fireworks on this issue of the 1.4 billion dividend tax, with people who believe in it and people who do not believe in it. I'm actually quite realistic in this, but I'm still looking for the basis of the story. I would nevertheless like to invite Mrs De Vries to comment on this. If she is reasoning through the content, what exactly is the mechanism that ensures that we get better shareholders? I am in favour of this, because shareholders who go for dividends are long-term shareholders who invest in the Netherlands. We would like to, but what exactly is the mechanism that makes that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u72	I think a company eventually looks at the overall picture. This concerns, on the one hand, non-financial considerations, such as infrastructure, good education and good training, but, on the other hand, the tax environment is also being considered. So that's what you need to look at. We are also taking a number of measures, including the reduction of corporate tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u73	We are happy to see many parts of that package, because we are always in favour of relief if we can. But with that dividend tax, I'm still a bit searching. You have countries where it is a levy; the shareholder is no better off. Administratively, you can say that it is a simplification; that is a small advantage. Is it estimated that there are enough countries where this is not a levy but a final levy? Is that the mechanism to ensure that there are more shareholders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u74	I do not think I fully understand what Mr Dijkgraaf means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u75	You may explain it, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u76	I'll try to explain. If that 15% is a withholding tax and is ultimately offset by the shareholder's tax return, then it doesn't help. For example, he paid 40%; he first paid 15% in the Netherlands and 25% in the other country. That shareholder is still going to pay 40%, only not 15% here, but 40% in Germany or Belgium. In countries where this is not a withholding tax, but a final levy, it does help. Then it's just a 15% tax cut for those shareholders. I don't have a complete picture of countries like that. My point would be that it is only if the final levy is also a mechanism to ensure that there are more shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u77	I think the argument is that we want an attractive locational environment. There are a lot of developments going on, like the Brexit. That's what I said later. For example, there is no dividend tax in the United Kingdom. For us, it fits into the overall picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u78	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u79	I talk to shareholders all the time. They are indeed looking at the overall picture. With the numbers I mentioned, they look at that 40%: do I pay 40% now or do I pay 25%? Then the question is: does this measure effectively reduce the burden on the shareholder? Yeah? Then it might be a good plan. No? Then I'm starting to doubt it. So what is the mechanism that will create jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u80	As far as I'm concerned, this story fits into our picture for the right locational climate. Then you can say it doesn't work like that, but we hear it does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u81	We hear Mrs De Vries saying 'we hear that it does', but we do not hear any arguments. I'll give them to you. Mark Rutte worked at Unilever. Wobke Hoekstra worked at Shell. Those are the only two companies that benefit from this. Those companies are now part of the UK. After the Brexit they might want to come to the Netherlands. They threatened to go to the United Kingdom instead of coming to the Netherlands. This is a gift from the taxpayer to Shell and Unilever to make these companies more valuable and to accommodate them. It would be a good thing for Mrs De Vries to tell us if she were to make that argument. Then we can say whether or not we want to give this gift on behalf of the taxpayer to these big companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u82	I think I have indicated that we think it is important to preserve businesses. We think it is important to attract new companies. We're interested in those jobs. Maybe you don't care. That can be done, fine, but we think that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u83	It's not about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u85	By zooming out every time, you don't make the point any clearer. It is not about jobs in general. It is hardly a question of locational climate. That is clear from Mrs De Vries' inability to answer all the questions. It is only two companies that do not want to create jobs in the Netherlands and will become more valuable as a result of this measure. We can be for or against that. I'd be against it myself. I would find it much better to have that 1.4 billion in box 2, for example, in favour of our entrepreneurs, dgas with e.g. etcetera. But make that argument and do not hide behind vague generalities such as 'it leads to a better location' or 'it leads to jobs', because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u86	I do not think Mr Baudet is going into what I am saying, namely that it is about jobs. You don't seem to think that's important. We're making a total package. It is not this one measure we are taking. We are taking a number of measures. These include social security measures, the right of dismissal and payment of wages in the event of sickness, and corporate taxation. That's a total package. You can say "just look at this measure" every time, but when you talk about an attractive location and investment environment, it is a total package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u87	Can Mrs De Vries go into my points about Unilever and Shell?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u88	I must honestly say that I do not need to talk about individual companies here. We are just talking about jobs: we want to keep them here. And we want to attract jobs from abroad. That's what matters to me. You want to narrow it down to something very small. I'm just saying that we want to improve the locational climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u89	Mr Nijboer, you have just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u90	That's right, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u92	...but it's 1.4 billion. That's not a small beer. That's big money. Again and again, colleagues, myself too, ask for some form of support for this proposal. If you give away 1.4 billion taxpayers' money, I believe that this includes a proper justification. And I miss it with Mrs De Vries. I think that Mrs De Vries is now obliged to give us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u93	Perhaps you should ask the former spokesperson of the PvdA, Mr Paul Tang, who in the past had in Het Financieele Dagblad noted that he is in favour of abolishing the dividend tax if there is good coverage, such as limiting interest deductions. We're doing those interest-deductibility restrictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u94	Finally, because this is a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u95	I asked for an explanation, Mr. Chairman. I'll go into Paul Tang. If you know someone who wants to raise the Vpb, reduce the debt deduction, make proposals to tax companies more heavily... I don't know much of a left-wing economist than Paul Tang. So don't beat me around the bush, because this doesn't make any sense. What would make sense, Mrs De Vries, is if you instead of conjecture, total packages and I know what not all the more, just provided a solid basis for why 1.4 billion should be spent, and why this cannot be spent on health or education jobs, or on SMEs. Because this has really not been shown before: 1.4 billion without any justification trying to give away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u96	I think I'm falling into a repeat of moves. I think I've tried to do this extensively. I have addressed these questions in detail. I regret that Mr Nijboer does not wish to comment on the change in Mr Tang's position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u97	Everyone has been to this point, Mr Azarkan, and Mr Nijboer has set a bad example. Anyway, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u98	I am setting a good example, Mr President. There's something that fascinates me enormously. I worked in business for a while. I had a colleague there who wanted to invest four tons in Russia. A colleague asked the question: why four tons? The answer was three tons is too little and half a million is too much. Can Mrs De Vries explain why it should be 1.4 billion, not 2.5 or 5 or 1 billion? What's that 1.4 based on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u99	This will cost the abolition of the dividend tax. We are also taking measures to reduce the Vpb, so if you want to add it to that, that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u100	Why didn't you give more to the location climate? That is the argument you always make about the locational climate. It is as if you say: we put 3 billion into education, which benefits education. This isn't how we argue. We can't say "we put it in something," which then benefits the general and highest level. That just doesn't work that way, and you know it. You walk away from that every time. You simply have, as Mr Nijboer says, to answer the question of the justification, namely why this 1.4 billion is good for the location climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u101	In my view, you indicate that we are only taking this measure now and that we may need to do more. We're also doing something about corporate tax. And as I have just said, we are making enough other proposals to reduce the risks to entrepreneurs. This applies to the entrepreneurs who have been in our country for years; it is also important for this. For example, lowering corporate tax is important for this. But I keep repeating myself. It is about companies, and ultimately about people's jobs here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u102	You already said that. I suggest you continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u103	I may come up with some repetitions now, but I was not yet at the end of my speech on the locational climate. The abolition of dividends and corporation tax is not only important for large companies. The contrast between the links between people and multinationals is, as far as I am concerned, a false contradiction. After all, these companies provide jobs for Dutch people and jobs for smaller companies. Many of us regularly visit entrepreneurs. I, too, recently received a visit from a group of entrepreneurs from Beverwijk. Not big directors, but ordinary entrepreneurs with a small company, often even without staff. Like no other, these entrepreneurs know the importance of large companies in the Netherlands. These big companies are often just their customers. And the importance of a good locational climate is, of course, all the more due to all the developments in America and the Brexit. We want to keep foreign companies here and attract new ones. A good locational climate is never an end in itself. We want a good location climate so that people can keep their jobs and get more people a job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u104	We are talking about the government agreement with all its measures and the jobs in business, which are so important to the VVD. We know that it does not like the jobs in care and safety, because in recent years it has made a lot of cuts and many jobs have been lost. Anyway, she likes the jobs in business. According to the coalition agreement, unemployment is falling by 0.4%. That's good news. Now we have put forward a counter-proposal, in which we say that we are not going to implement the VAT increase and are going to invest in wages. That is very good for low and middle incomes, but it is also very good for employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u105	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u106	For we are doubling the number of people working in relation to the coalition agreement. If the VVD is so incredibly in favour of employment, my question is whether it is prepared to accept our proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u107	I think Mrs Leijten knows the answer to that. I think it's actually more of a devious plan. You talk all the time about the proposal about the police officers, the staff in the care and the employees in the Defense Department, but what you do is just let all workers get less ahead of it. The coalition agreement says 1.4% for the workers and in your devious plan it is 0.1%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u108	On top of it, so that's extra. You can say left is devious, but you can also lie. It's on top of it, so they're making even more progress with us. I cannot explain that the VVD is always talking about jobs and jobs and that tax cuts should therefore be made and tax deals should be made which simply mean theft of us as a society. Where we talk about people working in the public service, such as education, safety and care, people who run our society, the VVD is not about jobs. I think that's such a hypocritical story!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u109	I must honestly say that when it comes to the plan of GroenLinks, PvdA and SP, I don't understand why they don't like the workers in companies, like the carpenter and the plumber. I'm not okay with that. We'll make another choice. We choose the full width. I think that's important. I really hope that no company in the Netherlands is listening to this debate, because it would really be toe-curious. I was gonna walk right out of this country screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u110	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u111	That's bullshit. Of course, small and medium-sized enterprises are of great importance to our society. There too, all those people who work in the public service, such as care, education and safety, do their shopping. That's where they get their equipment fixed and they buy their clothes. Of course, these companies are very important, but you only look at the big companies. You're wearing Shell and Unilever's slips. They, in particular, have removed 75% of employment over the last 10 or 20 years and have moved them all to the low-wage countries. You underestimate the value of our own investments in employment. And that is exactly the ideological choice that the VVD makes differently from us. We invest in our society and in our future, including those of the elderly, but certainly those of children. When teachers stop because they have too few colleagues and too much work pressure, we listen to them and not to those who no longer want to pay the tax on profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u112	I will never underestimate the importance of SMEs, absolutely never, but I think it is a false contradiction that the SP raises, because we also need these big companies. These small businesses also have an interest in these large companies as suppliers, as those who take care of the sandwiches there, as those who do the cleaning there. You shouldn't conjure that contradiction. That's just not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u113	On the whole, business needs to be encouraged and we do not forget SMEs, says Mrs De Vries of the VVD. But in box 2, the rate is increased from 25% to 28.5%. What is the argument behind that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u114	We are reducing corporation tax, including for small businesses. The ib entrepreneurs benefit from lowering the disks. There's a certain coherence in that, which also gives you an effect in box 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u115	I don't hear an answer to my question. What coherence? What's the target? What's the point? I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u116	This is the goal, this is the coherence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u117	This is what? This is the connection. What's the connection? Why do you increase the rate from 25% to 28.5%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u118	I do not want to have to repeat my answers over and over again because Mr Baudet does not want to listen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u119	Perhaps you should give us some better answers, then we will have to repeat our questions a little less often.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u120	You may make another attempt. Mr Baudet is waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u121	Yeah, but I'm gonna give you the same answer I already gave. We reduce corporate tax at the low and high rates. We're lowering the Ib rates. There's a connection to box 2. That's my answer. I do not know whether Mr Baudet understands it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u122	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u123	Indeed, I do not understand it, because it is SMEs who not only create a great deal of employment in the Netherlands, but also create social cohesion. It has already been mentioned that multinationals, large companies that benefit from the said abolition of dividend taxation, are, on the contrary, removing a great deal of employment from the Netherlands, because they are moving it to the low-wage countries. Why does the VVD make this choice for multinationals, which often leave the Netherlands, who are removing employment from the Netherlands and moving to the low-wage countries, and does the VVD abandon SMEs, the dgas with their own e.g. and thezzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u124	I don't think we're abandoning thezzp'ers. We have also put forward proposals for this in the coalition agreement, in which we deal with false self-employment but give room tozzp'ers. I have mentioned a number of measures for SMEs, but you may not want to hear them. I've been talking about pay-as-you-go payments and the right to dismiss. If you talk to entrepreneurs, you will also hear the complaints of entrepreneurs about those laws and regulations...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u125	And about box two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u126	...and that's why we're adjusting it. But I gave you the explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u127	Perhaps you can explain why, on the one hand, corporate tax is reduced for family businesses, but then in box 2 the income tax is increased. The cabinet gives a tax reasoning that is 100% wrong. I'll get back to that today. The overall balance is not distorted if you reduce both corporation tax and income tax. If you only lower corporate tax, the box 2 tax would indeed have to rise, but if they both go down, the overall balance will remain intact and you should not increase the box 2 rate for family businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u128	I agree with the statement contained in the coalition agreement. I assume that the cabinet will be giving it this global balance as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u129	I suggest you continue with your speech. I now give you the opportunity to conclude your speech. I do not mean that you should conclude now, but that you should continue your speech without interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u130	The government agreement accelerates the growth of the economy, reduces unemployment and increases the number of jobs. The coalition agreement therefore provides for more jobs and less unemployment. The budget is in order. At the end of the cabinet period, the government still has a budget surplus. Mr. Chairman. Of course, in this coalition agreement there are also some difficult measures for the VVD, but we have made sure that these difficult measures are always subject to positive measures, so that at the bottom of the line, by far the majority of the groups are making progress. It is therefore too easy to simply take out one measure and tell half the story. Unfortunately, I hear a lot of companies doing this. As a political party, you must also dare to take responsibility, tell the honest story and dare to compromise. You're gonna need guts for that. The VVD is picking up that glove. Mr. Chairman. This debate is also the starting point for the budgetary debates. The Minister of Finance is, of course, the supreme treasurer. How is he going to ensure that the burden relief is returned to the people as quickly and responsibly as possible? How does he ensure that this is done in a balanced way, without taking all measures with negative income effects or effects on certain groups, such as homeowners, or at first only with income benefits for certain incomes? For example, the abolition of the Hills Act as far as the VVD is concerned cannot be separated from the reduction of the housing deficit. How does the Minister view that? The cabinet is based on a fixed expenditure and burden framework in which income and the cyclical part of expenditure on WW and assistance can live with the economy. What are the consequences of this? What is meant by the cyclical part of expenditure? What's the definition of that? As far as we are concerned, any change cannot be cyclical. How does the pressure on the sustainability of social security expenditure remain? Because they're getting up pretty good, according to the starting note. Speaking of the starting note, can the Minister confirm that the separate budgetary rules drawn up in Rutte II are taken over one-on-one in Rutte III, with the exception of the new rules that are appropriate on the basis of the report of the 15th Study Group on Budgets? Mr. Chairman. All in all, this is a coalition agreement that we can be proud of and which we are going to work with. There has been enough talk and the voters have waited a long time for a new cabinet and for relief, so now we have to get to work. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u131	Mrs De Vries does a bit of enticing by starting with the house as part of the abolition of the Hillen Act. Can she explain to me why lowering the housing gap is a reason to abolish the Hills Act? The reduction in housing costs has nothing to do with the Hills Act. This has only been done to compensate the people who are in debt for the lower deduction. The people who have repaid their debts do not have that disadvantage, but they do get the disadvantage of the redemption penalty, so this strikes like a tong on a pig.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u132	I must say quite frankly that I am getting a bit quiet from this speech. I just kept the story that we need to look at the overall package of measures. Then you also look at the total package of measures for the owner. This package, of course, consists, on the one hand, of the dismantling of the Hills Act but, on the other hand, of the reduction of the housing deficit. We want to look at the overall picture to see how the owner of his own house finally gets rid of it and what he has to spend. These pictures just look good with all the measures, including the measures in income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u133	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u134	Can you at least explain to me, because you are not doing so, why then, because of the lesser tax advantage of the people who have debts, the house is being reduced? Those costs of self-employment, the reduction of which costs a lot, are paid by those who suffer from the abolition of the Hills Act. You can't defend that, can you? One group will be compensated and then a group that is completely outside will have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u135	I believe that I have indicated that we want to reduce our own housing to accommodate the property owner, because there are also a number of other measures in that package. That also benefits the people who are now covered by the Hills Act. Honestly, we do not think this is a very pleasant measure either. We did not have them in our electoral programme, but we did ensure that other measures were in place, such as the reduction of the income tax rate and the reduction of the income tax, so that people would eventually be left with money at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u136	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u137	I think that is a cynical argument. Surely you can't say to the people who have been relieved, who have lived economically, who knew that they wouldn't get an addition to their own house: be happy, you'll be caught with that ransom, but it's a little smaller than he was at first? That doesn't make any sense, does it? This is just a cynical argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u138	I am very sorry that Mr Van Rooijen is putting words in my mouth. I didn't report that at all. I said that we should look at the overall package of measures. This is a difficult measure for the VVD, absolutely, but we wanted to take responsibility and you sometimes have to compromise. We also made sure that the owner of the house gets a lower own house forfait, but also lower income tax. Now you just wipe it under the rug. I don't think that's a fair story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u139	I hear that Mrs De Vries has clearly been sent here with the remark: you have to sell the total package and not the individual measures. Of course, there's something to be said for that. Look at the overall package and not the individual measures, but if there is a measure that is really stupid, antisocial and a waste that, as I said, throws 1.4 billion into the sea, then the VVD must also speak the ratio and not say: we are not going to negotiate back? There's a very stupid, wrong measure. The VVD knows that, the Christian Union knows that, everyone knows that. Don't tell me you're gonna push through something like that and bother the whole society with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u140	This discussion has just been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u141	That discussion has just been extensive. I just want Mrs De Vries to be a little more vulnerable and let the ratio speak as well as whether this is a smart thing to do. Now it's like she's shutting the door for that. That would be a shame. But that wasn't my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u142	Then it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u143	My question concerns a very different point, namely the mortgage interest rebate. Because the VVD was always, along with the PVV, the party that said: that stands like a house, hands off the mortgage interest deduction. In 2013 it was messed with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u144	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u145	And now you're going one step further. How does that feel?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u146	It is also important that this is a difficult measure for us, and I am very honest in that. But once again, on the other hand, we have arranged a number of things, if you look at the house forfait and the lower income tax. I must say quite frankly that the PVV is not always consistent. Last time, the PVV did not dare to pass on its own proposals, but in 2012 the abolition of the Hillen Act was also in the PVV's pass-through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u147	In any case, we are consistent when it comes to mortgage interest relief. If you ask the people: what would you prefer, mortgage interest deduction and the house deposit as it is now, or in four years reducing the mortgage interest deduction, then everyone chooses that first. In other words, the VVD is the party that says every time: hands off the mortgage interest deduction. In 2013 you said: this is it; it's in 30 years, it's happening slowly and it doesn't hurt. And now you're going one step further in four years. How credible do you still want to be to your voters if you say "we don't do it" every time, but do it after the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u148	I think the PVV should first look at its own credibility when it comes to, for example, the Hills Act. I have already indicated that we think it is important that we have taken a number of other positive measures against the difficult measures which we ourselves did not have in our electoral programme. This is also reflected in the purchasing power picture, also in the purchasing power picture for the homeowners. Maybe you should take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u149	Thank you, Mrs Aukje de Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr. Chairman. This is the first debate with the Minister of Finance. I wish him every success and, above all, lots of fun. I already know the Secretary of State. We have already had the pleasure of spending about 15 hours in one of the halls in this building with him for the noble and noble handicrafts of careful legislation. This was about the Tax Plan. That didn't go too bad. All political-fiscal questions were referred to another time. I suppose that's the moment. Mr. Chairman. These General Financial Reviews are not just about next year's budget. They are also about the views of the rulers on the coming cabinet period. It is about the vision of fiscal policy, budgetary policy and the financial sector. We are going to try not to repeat last week's debate, but some of last week's topics will inevitably come back. Well, it turns out it is. I'll start with the Paradise Papers. After the Panama parasites we now have the birds of paradise. After previous leaks, we now have 13.4 million new documents that provide insight into the lousy tax morale of many earners and large companies. Shamelessly they avoid paying taxes properly. 63% of US multinationals' profits go to tax havens. Most of them go to the Netherlands. I am always shocked by the role played by the Netherlands in this. I'm actually ashamed of that, too. These are constructions, the CV/e.g. construction. This favourite construction for American multinationals will not be abolished until 2020. If it had been up to the previous cabinet, it would have been much later. I think we should do that much faster. I'd like a response. These are tax rules. It is good that the government agreement states that a withholding tax on interest and royalties is proposed. But abolishing the dividend tax is a new incentive to allow capital to flow through the Netherlands. How will the Netherlands explain that internationally? That is not to be explained, as it turned out from the little debate with Mrs De Vries. This is about secrecy and secrecy, on islands with palm trees, but also here in the Netherlands. There are secret rulings, which now even show that one official is signing hundreds of millions to the Cayman Islands. How is that possible? When do we and every taxpayer in the Netherlands really get an insight into the ruling practice? When will there also be external supervision of rulings? Mr. Chairman. Our country is a transit country of capital. It makes constructions possible. It's even the creator of it. And the political mantra is constantly: we are really in the fight against tax avoidance, but we are also in favour of fiscal competition. That's untenable. That borders on hypocrisy: one solemn promise but do the other. The Netherlands is such a broker of dubious tax practices and accountant of the evasion mafia. For some shiny headquarters we facilitate parasitic behavior of large companies and rich individuals. I'd like a response from the rulers. Mr. Chairman. Does this CDA finance minister like to gamble from time to time to the casino? I don't think it suits him. Last week, the group chairman of the VVD spoke about a gamble when he was questioned about the dividend tax. 1.4 billion, money that doesn't go to health care, teachers' salaries or citizens' purchasing power. Is it economical? No one knows. We're just betting on handing out 1.4 billion to foreign shareholders and foreign tax authorities. How does the minister with his background at McKinsey look at this? Is this a special gift for Shell? Did he know the lobby to abolish the dividend tax? That's the same lobby that doesn't take it so close to tax morale. This was topical, but at the same time it is an important issue that asks to be dealt with first and that calls for political action. Now more specifically on the coalition agreement and the budget. I'll start with income policy. I didn't know this minister. I told you before. That's why I took a look at this minister's maiden speech when he started for the CDA in the Senate. It scared the hell out of me. As a result of globalisation, technical development and public policy, there is a broad shared feeling that is also true in practice that prosperity is no longer distributed fairly. People's disposable income has been constant for 15 years. Wages lag behind profits, people's burdens increase, health care increases and rents increase. This cabinet also makes the messages even more expensive by increasing the low rate of VAT. People are not making any progress anymore and fear that this will continue to be the case in the future. It was a McKinsey study last year that showed that seven out of ten Dutch households have not improved since 2005. McKinsey's research concludes that people have the idea that the system is abandoning them and that politics needs to think better about the impact of the policy on the weakest in society. And what did the minister say, with his background at McKinsey, as a senator in his maiden speech: "It must be done with redistribution, because the Netherlands is a levelled country and we are over the top of what is efficient." This senator, this minister, finds it incomprehensible that there are parties who want to redistribute. And what did he say, "In the past, there were people who called it communists." I didn't know what I was reading. The CDA as a social party is no longer concerned about people with ordinary incomes, people who no longer benefit from prosperity. Is that community spirit? However, my group is concerned about the sense of community in the Netherlands and about the increase in income disparities. With the SP and the PvdA we have made alternatives: no increase in VAT, no abolition of dividend taxes, no cuts in the disabled, but higher wages for people in care, teachers, police officers, fair income policies, and no more expensive messages. That's fair, and the CPB is showing it. I'd like a response. As a senator in the First Chamber, the minister was also very critical of the tax policy of the previous cabinet. At that time, the tax burden was reduced by 5 billion, but there was no real revision of the tax system. And what do we see now? However, there is a reduction in charges, not a revision of the system. The flat tax is a hobby of the CDA, like the supplement system is an invention of the CDA. If there are any CDAs on the Treasury, I'm worried. I have this question to the heads of government: is this government agreement going to stop thinking in the coming years, or do they see room, despite the coalition agreement, for years to come to work on a real revision of the tax system? I am talking about the increases, the greening, more work, the capital increase tax, all the themes that have emerged in numerous reports over the past few years, but which are not really being dealt with in this coalition agreement. What does the Minister actually think of the proposed VAT increase? Don't, he said as a senator, there's no support for it. The increase affects people's purchasing power and small businesses. Are the directors prepared to carry out an impact analysis of the proposal, for example as regards border effects, income effects, and employment effects in labour-intensive services? I don't think the CPB is right for this, but I'd like a reaction. Mr President, I come to budgetary policy. We got Friday...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u151	If you look at GroenLinks' plans, you will see all kinds of measures that have an impact, including on the price of stuff in supermarkets. In total, this is an even larger amount. Then I see a packaging tax of 2.2 billion. Where do you think it's paid for? Then I see a tax of 1.1 billion on meat and fish. Where do you think it's paid for? So I have a question for Mr Snels. Since when do you not want to tax consumption more heavily and work less?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u152	Mr President, we were completely transparent in our electoral programme and in the passing on of the electoral programme. What we do not want, we make more expensive, what we do want, cheaper. We did indeed have an increase specifically on meat and fish, because we know that this has real environmental effects. But where are the environmental impacts of making vegetables more expensive? Where are the environmental impacts of making fruit more expensive? What's wrong with reading books, reading newspapers, going to the campsite? That has nothing to do with greening, and it has nothing to do with reducing consumption if you think about what is important for climate and environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u153	This is a long answer to a non-asked question. At the heart of the Green Left programme is the increase in taxes by 3.2 billion due to packaging taxes and VAT measures. That's a policy that you can be for or against, but to run some sort of SP campaign here, I think that's a clear choice from GroenLinks, I'll say. I have one simple question. Does Mr Snels think that it would be interesting if the cabinet were to tell us what part of the tax increases of 3.2 billion would lead to higher prices?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u154	That was a question to the cabinet through Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u155	Well, I suppose Mr. Snels is as curious as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u156	That's just in the pass-through of our election program. And yes, that has an effect on inflation, as does government policy. It's in GroenLinks' DNA that we think very specifically about what we don't want and so make it more expensive, and that has effects. Packing becomes more expensive, as well as meat and fish, but you can also redirect that much more directionally to people, so that they can just do their shopping so they can just buy and read books, read newspapers. On the other hand, the policy of the cabinet, a general increase in the VAT rate, has nothing to do with environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u157	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u158	It disappoints me from GroenLinks that they keep pretending that people get less in their pockets. That's just not true. There is, on balance, a large reduction in the burden and that money for VAT goes back into an additional reduction in income tax. It would simply be fair for Mr Snels to acknowledge that, but I welcome this answer. He acknowledges that the groceries at GroenLinks are just becoming more expensive. I look forward to the response of the rulers to the question of how many. Because, yes, Mr. Snels just said it himself. He started walking sideways. Groceries are getting more expensive at GroenLinks. That makes the rhetoric as an opposition party somewhat hollow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u159	No, not the groceries are getting more expensive. Because of the higher income people get, they can buy more fruit and more vegetables and read more books and newspapers. But it is true: they will have to look more carefully to see if they want to eat meat every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u160	No, no, Mr Van Weyenberg, that point has been sufficiently exchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u161	That is what my party stands for, and that is what we have submitted to the electorate. That was in our program, that was in our bill of account and that VAT increase that the cabinet is now proposing had no one in its program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u162	I believe that this point has been sufficiently discussed, Mr Van Weyenberg. One sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u163	So the core is: the groceries are getting more expensive. He just acknowledged that and I look forward to the answer from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u164	You already said that. Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u165	Yes, Mr President, but as far as I am concerned it is not entirely transparent. I agree with Mr Snels when he says that the GroenLinks programme is more targeted. GroenLinks makes sharper choices in steering and the VAT measure is simply broader and less targeted. I agree with that part, but at the end of the day, when you look at the total package, it is just as well that the messages become more expensive at GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u166	Some messages. The bags in which the groceries are stored, they become more expensive. And they'll be used less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u167	If we are very precise: everything that is packed becomes more expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u168	Yeah, the packs. Especially the packaging. Of course it has an effect. And more importantly, that was properly calculated by the CPB. Then you also see an effect on inflation and then you have to look again at what happens to purchasing power, where those price increases are part of. Then you can see that people with low and middle incomes are just making a lot of progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u169	But then I think we agree. Then I think it should be much more about the question: how exactly do you set up these incentives and what do you charge and what do you not? In part, we go along with that. We also have that packaging tax in our programme, but not that tax on meat and fish that are just healthy for people to eat, especially when one has a low income. Otherwise the weather will be very expensive and high incomes will not be able to eat meat and fish and low incomes. I think it should be about that focus rather than about whether the price level is rising, because that is what is happening at GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u170	Sure. It's gotta be targeted. That was also my objection to cabinet policy. For example, our program said that flying is becoming more expensive. This cabinet makes it so, and we agree on that. That is a targeted measure and I agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u171	Let me return to the proposal on the packaging tax. That is not a small tax on plastic bags, but a tax of 2.1 billion. Per Dutch, an average of €120 to €130 comes in for packaging tax. For a family of four there is therefore €500 in packaging tax to be paid. Otherwise, we won't bring in the proceeds of GroenLinks. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u172	It's been a long time since I've had the pass-through in my head. I assume from Mr Omtzigt that that is about right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u173	We talked a long time about those plastic bags in the room. That is a measure that works broadly, in all honesty. Where are you charging the $500 for that family now? That should come in according to your program. Are you going to tax every box with a few euros? You're making far-reaching proposals. You blame the coalition, but do you remember proposing this? Do you remember what that 500 euros is charged on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u174	We are now going into the packaging tax technique. I'll try to explain it anyway. We had it once in the Netherlands, about ten years ago. This proved to be a technical problem for implementation. Other countries have improved on this. What you can do is burden the material that the packaging is made with. According to the CPB, this effect can be carried out well and ultimately leads to us using much less packaging, which will also reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u175	This is a somewhat long answer and there are also three problems with it. The first problem is that the old packaging tax generated about 250 million, which accounts for more than 2 billion, almost tenfold. Two, it must deliver 500 euros per family, even after less use of packaging. Then what is this tax levied on? Will the carton of milk become €0.10 or €0.20 more expensive? If you don't do that kind of thing, you simply won't get $2 billion in packaging tax. This isn't a free tax. Free taxes don't exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u176	As far as the latter is concerned, I agree entirely with Mr Omtzigt. Every tax is disruptive, economists always say. But there are some taxes that affect behavior positively. This is about environmental taxes and therefore also about packaging taxes. If you want to have an effect on that, it must be a strong incentive. That's what I stand for. I'm in favour of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u177	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u178	Can we receive a table from GroenLinks, perhaps in the second term, of what bringing in €500 per family means for a pack of milk and for the box in which furniture is packed? What kind of simple things does that do? I want to know how you think you can raise €500 per family, including low-income families, without causing a great deal of pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u179	It's just in the credit card. This is compensated by a real reduction in income tax for low-income and middle-income people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u180	I think you're removing it from your plan again. My question is this. The GroenLinks Group makes a choice that ensures that low incomes can no longer eat meatball but quinoa. Fine. That's a choice. We don't make that choice. The question is, what exactly does that plan mean? You say all the time: that comes back to the purchasing power picture. But what individual family pays for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u181	What plan are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u182	The plan for the VAT increase on meat as set out in your election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u183	Oh, the VAT increase on meat. That does indeed mean that meat, and fish.... and ornamental flowers we also had............................................................................................................................................................................................ That does indeed mean that if people buy that, they have to pay more for it. This means that people will make a little less use of it. You know, these are choices that I stand for and which, for example, contribute to tackling climate change. The money can then be traced back to people through higher incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u184	What I find weird is that you are crying about the VAT increase that is now in the coalition agreement, and you are okay with people just having to pay more for their groceries. What I also think is a point, by the way, is what you actually had in your election programme. I think that was all about meat. You have quite sneaky in the CPB calculation fish thrown in there again. I just don't get it. Why aren't you just being honest about that in your election program?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u185	I believe that there has been an amendment during our conference, which has made it more appropriate and extended. That's how it works with us in the party. What was your first question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u186	My last question was why you didn't write it in your election program. If it was an amendment to your electoral programme, I think you should include it in the text of your election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u187	It was in there. It was in the election programme and it was therefore also in the pass-through of the election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u188	Then the question remains: what does that mean, in combination with that packaging tax, for just a fashionable family, for that policeman, for that care worker and for the one working at the Department of Defense? What does this mean for people with normal income and nothing fancy or anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u189	The difference between how GroenLinks and how others look at environmental policy and tax policy is that we are trying to do it smartly and purposefully. A general increase in VAT is not as smart as taxing parts of people's consumption and putting the money back; I try to make that clear every time. We don't make fruit more expensive. We don't make vegetables more expensive. We don't make the paper more expensive. We don't make books more expensive. We do not make the campsite more expensive. That is the objection I have to the increase in the low rate of VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u190	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u191	Mr President, we were talking about the Minister's Start note and about reducing the burden. Mr Van Weyenberg just asked me about it. There appears to be no reduction in charges at all. Under the line, there is a burden increase of EUR 3.4 billion. What do you mean, relief? Citizens pay the bill: sharply rising costs of care, abolition of portability tax discount. It all together creates increasing burdens for households. Can the Minister indicate how these rising burdens, that is, 3.4 billion, are distributed among citizens and businesses? Because that is not clear from the Minister's documents. If I try to make the sum a little bit, it seems that business will get a relief, and citizens will have a burden increase. Is that right? Then there are the budgetary rules. These rising costs in care are reduced by the conclusion of key agreements. If that succeeds, nominal premiums will fall. But that doesn't help people. Because the cabinet makes the rule that unfamiliar premiums directly mean that the cabinet raises the rate of the first disc. I don't understand any of that. Why is that necessary? What kind of trick is that? The table also says something weird that I just don't understand. 900 million will be made available for outstanding nominal premiums, but the compensation for this through higher taxes is 1.7 billion. How's that? Can the Minister explain that to me? Then the expenditure framework, neatly laid down in the Start note. But I do not understand the decision to place the budgetary consequences of decisions to reduce gas extraction in Groningen under the expenditure framework. If we think that the gas tap in Groningen should be closed further than it is now in the government agreement, then we need to cut other public expenditure, such as education. That is what this budget rule says. We promised Groningen more than the cabinet does now. In the plans we made with the SP and the Labour Party we also go back to 12 billion cubic metres. But in the coming years there may be a situation that the cabinet or the coalition also thinks the gas crane should be closed further. Then it can't be that we're going to have to cut back on education. Why this budget rule? And finally, a more technical question. Gas benefits are booked by the CPB on an occasional basis. We know the gas extraction will stop one day. We no longer rely on structural income. In this way, decisions in the context of structural policy trends cannot be placed under the expenditure framework. I'd like a response. Mr President, there are a number of other subjects. With regard to the financial sector, it is most striking that this passage in the coalition agreement is very concise: some bullet points. How does the Minister feel about that? All problems solved, business as usual? Let me ask one question about this cryptic passage in the coalition agreement: "If Basel IV enters into force, the requirements for leverage ratio will be brought into line with European requirements." Are we really going to lower the buffers of banks? I think 4% is still too low. Buffers need to go up, not down, not only in the Netherlands but also in Europe. I'd like a response. Then there is a question about the recommendations of the Council of State on climate policy. We need a clearer picture of how and where the costs of the policy fall. This is, of course, due to the finding of the PBL that the policy is still insufficient to meet the objectives of talking about hidden burdens. But it also has to do with burden sharing between citizens, businesses and large companies. How does the Cabinet deal with this recommendation from the Council of State? Finally, a slightly smaller item for next year's budget. My party's educational spokesmen will come back to that with those of SP and PvdA later, but there is a problem with the education deficit policy. This has been known for some time and has to do with new indicators for lagging behind. The coalition agreement will pay a lot of extra money for this from 2019 onward, but there will still be a cut in 2018 on balance. Our proposal would be to get some 57 million out of the extra money for the Municipal Fund, which is running fast in this cabinet period, even next year, and to transfer it to the Education budget. I hope, with the outstretched hands and the doors that stand on cracks, that the coalition will take a good look at this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u192	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I am now going to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the government for interesting plans; plans for the next four years, which I, as a Member of Parliament, will monitor as closely as I have checked the plans of the last government. I have often been asked what the position of a Member of Parliament is in the opposition or the coalition. I can assure you that there is no difference in the Constitution between an opposition chamber member and a coalition chamber member. The role is to control the government. And Mrs Leijten always takes this role very seriously, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u194	That's probably why she's standing in front of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u195	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I also look forward to doing it together with Mr Omtzigt, and I am sure he will do so in the same way. But when it comes to controlling the government and the plans, you also need to know exactly where they come from. Then we need to know who proposed to abolish the dividend tax of 1.4 billion by 2020? Does Mr Omtzigt want to know that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u196	That is a question you can ask the government, because I say that we, as CDA, as my colleague from GroenLinks has just said, are defending our own plans. We had not included this measure in our election accounts, and we mainly included in the negotiations plans contained in our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u197	The CDA plans will know the Minister very well, because I think you put them together. No one had 1.4 billion worth of abolition dividend tax in their programme. So if all the parties were to act like the CDA, no one would defend it, and so could they. But we saw something different last week. We can start by just knowing who put it in, when and why. Is Mr Omtzigt prepared to share this with us and with the Chamber and with everyone who is watching this, with all the journalists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u198	You're gonna have to ask the people who sat there for the table. I wasn't one of them, and I'm telling you that in all honesty. It was not tabled on behalf of the CDA Group. But we are in favour of a package, which I will return to in my speech, which will ensure that business stays here and creates jobs. The second part contains an ambitious package to abolish mailboxes and other items here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u199	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr Omtzigt began with: I am standing here to control the government. We all are. You shouldn't be in opposition and coalition as a member of parliament any different. We know that's true. And then I specifically ask: let us check with each other the government why the 1.4 billion is in it. Then Mr Omtzigt backs off a little bit, and I regret that. Because it would help us. It would help us with 74 seats if Mr Omtzigt were to say: as a CDA, I am making it very difficult for this to become transparent. Who put that in, when was that decided, was it Shell, was it VNO-NCW, was it a combination of those two? Then we know how it goes and then we know who has the power. In the end, we control power here. If the power isn't there, but in a head office, then we need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u201	Two answers to that. The first answer is: I am defending the policy for which I stand and where I vote in favour or against. You can call me on that. The second answer is: the cabinet, no sorry, the formatter's office has put all the letters sent back and forth on his site.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u202	Let's move on to the abolition of the Hills Act. I believe that Mr Omtzigt will confirm and acknowledge that this was not included in the CDA's electoral programme either. Can he explain to me why that is in the coalition agreement? The transitional period will probably be a kind of make-up, like: nothing is happening at all. But can I know why the CDA supported this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u203	I was also very disappointed on the day of the election results that we did not have 76 seats. Extraordinary disappointment. Then we started negotiating with four parties, which failed. Then with another combination of four parties. Then compromises will be made in this country. If the entire CDA programme were to be implemented, perhaps three other parties would have thought here: mmm, we do not do this coalition agreement. And this measure was in the bank account of one of the partners. We have indeed introduced it much more gradually than it contained in that electoral programme. In itself, therefore, even the measure is a compromise. To give an example, because there is a lot of uncertainty about this: if someone has an average house of three tonnes, paid off completely, then there will be an addition of €1,500. This means that a pensioner with a not too high supplementary pension over 30 years will pay €300 net. The first year is €10, the second year €20, the third year €30, which is about €1 per month. I say it quite frankly: almost every other measure in the coalition agreement and in the counter-budget that has been tabled has more financial impact than this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u204	I think this is a low point in Mr Omtzigt's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u205	I have not yet been able to begin my speech, so I share that with Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u206	It concerns one million Dutch people, almost all elderly people, who are going to have to pay 1.1 billion in structural terms. It is true: the transitional arrangement conceals the blow. You're gonna get a huge blow, but with a big box of Band-Aids. The cabinet does the same in the answers, because they only show the effects of the first two years and they are indeed very small. But in the next few days we will ask what exactly it costs after five, after ten and after twenty years, and not only for homes of 3 tonnes, but also for homes of 5 tonnes, because in Amsterdam a 5 tonne house is almost a sunken house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u207	Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u208	We really need to get a picture of all the effects. We'll ask for that, too. I have another point to make. The abolition of the Wet-Hillen also leads the cabinet to vaguely say that the surcharges will be reduced. That's in the execution test, not the bill. The old-age discount will lead to it. So it's much worse than you say. You're looking at the first year, I'm looking at the effects over 30 years for people who thought yesterday they were safe from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u209	Mr Van Rooijen, this was an argument. This wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u210	Mr Omtzigt says that it is really nothing, that this is the smallest burden increase in the package. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u211	An interruption is a question, not an argument. I shall now turn to Mr Snels, after a brief response from Mr Omtzigt. Otherwise, he's gonna provoke another whole speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u212	I think you should deduct that from Mr Van Rooijen's speaking time. I mentioned exactly the amount it's gonna come out of in 30 years. That amount is in my calculation example €300. These calculation examples are also given in the explanatory notes, in Tables 1 and 2. You can read it. The bill says where it's gonna be in three years and where it's gonna be in 30 years. Both amounts are in it. You cannot therefore blame the government for not having given it the total effect. I'll tweet it like that for the people who don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u213	We're in the middle of a debate right now, and we're not doing Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u214	I find it extremely interesting that Mr Van Rooijen, because it does not have enough effect on houses of 3 tonnes, is asking for homes of 5 tonnes and of a million, because that is average. Yesterday in the debate on the Tax Plan, he said that it affected the elderly with a not too high pension. We then asked what a not too high supplementary pension is. The answer was €50,000. However, I would like to look at people with a supplementary pension of €10,000 or €15,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u215	I find it very interesting that Mr Omtzigt is now addressing a very different issue, the purchasing power, but we will be discussing this with the Tax Plan, and I will do so this afternoon. If workers progress up to a tonne of 5% to 7%, Mr Omtzigt thinks that I should not talk about pensioners with a slightly higher pension, who are down 3%. That saves almost 10%. Moreover, I have also discussed in detail the people with a small pension, who are on the zero line and are not making any progress, unless they have only AOW and a very small pension. People with an AOW and a pension of 10,000 or 20,000 go to minus 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u216	People with a pension of 10,000 don't go to minus 2. Read the tables and come up with examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u217	I shall now go to Mr Snels. No, Mr Van Rooijen. You don't just take the floor. This point has been discussed extensively in the WHO. A very brief comment, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u218	I'll give you figures from the Nibud report. I will quote from that this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u219	Okay. Thank you. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we were talking about the dividend tax. Well, I guess I'll get back to that. We now know that for the Christian Union, swallowing the dividend tax was like swallowing a melon. I know Mr. Ommzigt like a man who says what he thinks. What does he think of abolishing the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u221	I have been looking for a package in which we can make the Netherlands more interesting for companies. It is often forgotten that foreign companies provide around two million jobs here. The CDA was actually the only one who carried out burden relief not only for citizens but also for businesses in his election programme. So we were the only ones who said before the elections: if you want more jobs, you will not have to increase those taxes. In all the counter-budgets, I see huge increases in the burden on companies. So they're going exactly the other way. This was not the measure we had in it. We had a lower Vpb in it, in exchange for less interest relief. But yes, we want the Netherlands to be competitive when it comes to establishing real companies and not competitive when it comes to letterbox companies and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u222	When it comes to this subject, it seems like we should play detective as MPs. We're looking for "who put this in?', Because it wasn't in anyone's election program. We are also looking for arguments as to why it should actually be done. Now I just understood from Mr Omtzigt's answer that if it had been up to him, we would have done something other than abolish the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u223	I always assume what's in our own election program. I have just addressed Mr Snels. If he asks what I've come up with, my answer is the CDA election programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u224	That's clear. So the proposal to abolish the dividend tax does not come from the Christian Union and it does not come from the CDA. That leaves two parties. We'll ask him later. I asked Mrs De Vries earlier. Mr Omtzigt, you can see that there is resistance to this measure. Will there be any discussion with you in Parliament about withdrawing this measure and finding a different destination for the EUR 1.4 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u225	We signed a government agreement. Contrary to what has happened in the past, when a number of opposition parties said 'we want to hold a hearing on dividend taxation', we said: fine, who would you like to invite? I'm not just gonna get ahead of things, I'm not gonna say on the first question that someone's gonna ask us to move in, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u226	I understand very well that Mr Omtzigt says: it is not in our election programme, so we did not bring it in. The problem is that nobody had it in the election programme and it costs up to EUR 1.4 billion. I would ask Mr Omtzigt to respond more precisely to Mr Dijkgraaf's question to Mrs De Vries: how does the abolition of the dividend tax contribute to employment in the Netherlands? Because that is the purpose, including of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u227	I refer you to the hearing that was held here in 2008 on the dividend tax. There are a number of arguments. It's interesting to settle here, to do your stock here on the stock exchange and not on the London Stock Exchange. It becomes de facto more expensive to take over a Dutch company. Mr Nijboer also felt that it was desirable that acquisitions from abroad should be made more difficult. If choices are to be made later, for example in the context of the Brexit, about the establishment of a company here or elsewhere with a head office and also with employment, I would like to say in a moment why we want to get rid of these letterbox companies, something that has not yet been so successful with Mr Nijboer's previous cabinet, we would like to have these companies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u228	Mr Omtzigt needs to explain to me how companies in the Netherlands can be taken over less easily if you subsidise Chinese, Taiwanese or American investors by giving them EUR 1.4 billion. That makes it easier, doesn't it? That's what it's for, isn't it? I always see the CDA at the forefront when there are Chinese investors for Dutch big companies, multinationals. Then there must be protection structures. Now you're using the argument that it's the other way around. How is that possible if you give them gifts and make it attractive to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u229	Because it will increase the price of these shares and thus of these companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u230	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u231	Through the price of the shares... We're getting an interesting hearing. I have a final question for Mr Omtzigt. Suppose there are measures worth 1.4 billion for business, for employment, for the Dutch economy that are much better than abolishing dividend taxes, really better by distance, no discussion possible among experts. Is Mr Omtzigt then prepared, is the CDA prepared to consider that? You do not need to withdraw the measure immediately. I understand that. Mrs De Vries has just held out for an hour, "no, no, no," so I understand that it is not possible right now. But is it to be discussed in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u232	If the general question is whether we are sitting here with our fingers in the ears when other parties here in the Chamber come up with good proposals, then the answer is 'no', totally 'no'. They will be supported. But if the general question is whether we are necessarily throwing the coalition agreement overboard before we start, the answer is "fuck."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u233	Mr Omtzigt began by complimenting himself on a number of points. I'll give it to him, too. He is an example for many MPs because of the sharpness he often has. It hurts me a little when I see that he's losing that sharpness. I have the next question to ask him. Will the money from abolishing the dividend tax end up with companies that can do something with it, making choices in what they do with it and thus choosing where they invest in the world, or will it end up with countries where it is paid if it is not paid in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u234	That's an interesting question for the hearing. This is due, among other things, to the tax treaty of the company that settles here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u235	Mr Omtzigt never misses a moment to show how much understanding he has of the matter. I have been able to see him several times in the various Ecofin meetings and in hearings. It's a man who knows a lot more than he's showing. Look how sharp Mr Omtzigt was last year on the 1.2 billion from the Tax Administration. He asked the government for the shirt. He just didn't think it was enough. The 1.2 billion had to be clearly explained: what is it for, in what table is it for? In fact, Mr Omtzigt said: I reserve my vote against the budget. That's sharp, and I like that. I expect that focus on this subject as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u236	So much for the compliments. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u237	It's a fantastic compliment. It was just about 2008; a number of people who are watching may not know that. Mr. Omtzigt, just mention three advantages of abolishing the dividend tax. Then don't bring the schwalbe of the VVD that it's good for the location climate. I can expect something more specific from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u238	I just mentioned three. It gets more interesting to spend your shares here on the stock exchange, it gets interesting to settle here and in some cases it helps to create a slightly larger dam against takeovers. We have these three things as an advantage. Furthermore, we have a hearing. I am sure that all the drawbacks of this will be addressed by you in your invitation policy and all the benefits will be taken into account. By the way, I will cut out this video from you, because it will be very valuable in the light of what you will be asking me for the rest of the next four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u239	I think we are taking this proposal a step further, but I do not have it fully. All the channels that Mr Omtzigt mentions, he mentions three works in my opinion only if it has material impact, so if it is not a levy. So the big question is: are there sufficient shareholders in the world who are potentially interested in the Netherlands, for which it is currently not a withholding tax but a final tax? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u240	Then those channels work a lot better, yeah. That is also the answer I gave to Mr Azarkan's question: it is the tax treaty and the type of investor you are at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u241	Yeah, but then the interesting question is whether we can make an assessment, perhaps we should ask the cabinet whether there are sufficient shareholders to which that applies. Does Mr Omtzig agree? I would put this question in my contribution, but I have already done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u242	That's a very interesting question. I find it very interesting that all these questions are always asked to me. There are times when I feel like I have my own ministry, but I don't, although I do want to pretend. I would like the answer to this question from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u243	I think Mr Omtzigt is sufficiently effective without a ministry. I shouldn't think there's another ministry behind him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u244	Then it's gonna be a total drama.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u245	I think the right choice has been made. Anyway, it doesn't matter. But this is the material question ahead, isn't it? If the answer were that those shareholders weren't there, it would be tricky. Finally. I find it interesting that Mr Omtzigt also says that it is also a defence against hostile takeovers. In my view, that is the reasoning that the net present value of the tax advantage is taken into account in the share price, which increases the share price. But that is actually contrary to attracting new shareholders. How do they relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u246	This is not contrary to attracting new shareholders, because those shareholders have the same net cash flow compared to the company's value at the time they do not pay that tax. This makes it equally attractive to invest in that company, but the hurdle to take over the whole becomes slightly smaller. Something bigger, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u247	We know Mr. Omtzigt as someone who generally tells the honest story. Why doesn't he just say: listen, the Netherlands is just at risk compared to the United Kingdom? The United Kingdom has a dividend tax of 0% and has a Vpb of 15% or wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u248	Something like that, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u249	In other words, the Brexit is simply a risk to the Netherlands that companies move to the UK. That's why a number of companies, like Unilever and Shell, have said: listen, if you don't do this, we're gone. That's the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u250	The fair story is that the Brexit gives opportunities and risks to the Netherlands on a completely different level, which will soon be in my story, and that those risks and opportunities are far greater than just at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u251	But with the Brexit there are also opportunities for the UK and the Brexit is perhaps not such a bad idea. We are always talking about companies wanting to leave the UK, but this is typically a measure to prevent companies wanting to leave the Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u252	At the moment, since the Brexit, I have seen mainly companies leaving London and then going to Dublin, in one case even to Warsaw and Madrid, Frankfurt, Paris and Amsterdam. I am very curious to see if Mr Van Dijck can give one example of the opposite, namely of a firm which is moving a head office or employees to London.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u253	Those examples are there, but the important thing is that we always have the mouths of saying that the Brexit is so bad for England and good for the Netherlands. In other words, this is typically a measure linked to the fact that Unilever and Shell, both in dubio or in the Netherlands or in the United Kingdom, have both said with the knife on the throat: if you do not do this, we will be on our way to London. That's the honest story and that can be told here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u254	That wasn't a question. I suggest that you continue with your input, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u255	Something was put in my mouth.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u256	You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u257	I was put in the mouth that the Brexit would be bad for England. I think that's true. That the Brexit would be good for the Netherlands, I fight. If the Brexit goes wrong and ends up in a chaotic situation, this entire coalition chord and the Start note can be put in the trash. Then all hands on deck, I can assure you. If we are not able to make good agreements about the separation, even the air transport conventions are no longer valid and we can no longer fly from Amsterdam to London. Then we will have to introduce customs controls and other things immediately. That will affect the British economy and the UK economy, but that is a separate problem, Northern Ireland, and this will affect us as the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u258	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u259	Mr President, I can assure you that I am not going to make the 19 minutes for which I have registered, but I have been on my way for 33 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u260	That's what I was going to say, but go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u261	Mr Van Rooijen's point that that was all the low point was true, because that was the only comment I had made. Mr. Chairman. Unemployment is falling in the coming years. Moreover, we are very curious to see how good these predictions are, because I had a debate here last year with Mr Dijsselbloem. He said that according to the CPB unemployment would not fall, but that we would grow more than 2%. Even then, both the minister and I thought, "That's really weird." Unemployment is therefore falling further this year. That's just good news for a lot of people who don't have benefits and who can make money working. Some things are just good, too. Government debt is going down to around 45% of gross domestic product. That gives room to absorb a possible shock. Those shocks can also occur. I have just mentioned the chaotic Brexit and I will come back to the policy of the ECB. The euro area as such is not yet out of the question. A country must be in such a state that it does not immediately have to hang on to all emergency brakes if something happens. And, Mr President, I do not remember a government submitting a starting note containing a budget surplus of 0.5% over all the years of the government, with the agreement that we do not have to cut back on economic downturns immediately. This gives us peace, but it also indicates that we are not only thinking about the four years that we have, but also about the years that follow and the generations that are to come. And yes, there is some room to relieve burdens and tackle bottlenecks in society. Mr. Chairman. We have made a number of choices at the negotiating table. If you carry out a tax relief of a number of billions for citizens, and this is what the government is doing, what would have been easier than just reducing income tax a little, for example by increasing the general tax rebate for everyone? That would be the easiest thing to do. Then you wouldn't have any criticism. Then everyone here would say "o." Then they can't bring up the VAT. Of course, we knew that the opposition would start talking about VAT. But we've made choices. There are many people in the Netherlands who, if they earn €10 extra, will have to pay 60% tax on this. In the Netherlands, this concerns more than 500,000 people. We wanted those marginal rates down a little bit. That is why we have deliberately chosen not only to reduce the tax, but also to shift it. The tax therefore shifts from income tax, which is falling, to environmental taxes, which are increasing, and the low VAT rate goes up from 6% to 9%. A conscious choice. It was also a conscious choice to do something extra for families, because poverty among families with children is relatively high compared to other groups of the population. Therefore, the child-related budget increases for children with two parents. That's what we're taking $0.5 billion for. Only earners with a modal income are making the most progress, but that is also exactly the group where the Nibud indicates that it is the most vulnerable group. You saw last year's CPB credit transfers at the request of the entire opposition. This shows that this group does pay the tax and loses the fees. So that's where we're taking a step. I see Mr Dijkgraaf standing by the interrupting microphone. This was about sole earners. I'm done with that part now, so I think Mr. Dijkgraaf...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u262	Yes, but I would suggest that you continue with your input, otherwise we will have to cut off your input after every sentence for interruptions. You agree, don't you, Mr Dijkgraaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u263	If you'll allow me to come back to the point of the sole earners, that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u264	Yes, of course. I'm sure you'll have an opportunity to ask questions. Please continue, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u265	Mr. Chairman. Then there are also people in the Netherlands who, if they earn €10, get €11. They pay a negative income tax. They're partners, often partners of people who make good money. They get a tax advantage that they can transfer to the well-earning partner. That is what we are abolishing. We want to reduce the high marginal tax rates, but a negative rate can really go to zero for the group mentioned. Then they still have every €10 they earn €10 left. I have to say that this doesn't always work great in the models, because many of these things have become model driven in recent years. We got lists that showed that you'd all get extra precise jobs if you did that discount like that. But the tax system is not only about how we play with models, this economist who likes to play with models in the evening says. It's also about carrying capacity: do you think anyone can make any of the money they make with their hard work? The CDA welcomes the ambition in the government agreement to put an end to the situation that companies are only established on paper in the Netherlands to pump around tax-free millions, or even billions. These companies are taxed. The measure in the government agreement to introduce a withholding tax on outgoing interest and royalties is not likely to be the only measure necessary for this purpose. Hopefully the Secretary of State will see with me that a broader plan is needed. Is he prepared to send an integral plan to the Chamber at the end of this year or early next year to address this sector in a targeted way? I like to hear what's possible. I am standing here and I am the first to admit that some measures will make it difficult to make a precise distinction between letterbox companies and real economic activities. If that was very easy, the PvdA of Henk Nijboer would have done so in recent years. The CDA sees much of its electoral programme reflected in the financial arrangements of the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u266	You should not look at Mr Nijboer in an inviting manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u267	I take back the invitation, Mr. Chairman. I will do this in the event of interruption in his term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u268	I have just dismissed Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Van Rooijen. I'm just waiting, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u269	I just got a sneer thrown at me in a talker. Then I would like to be able to say something to that, Mr President, and I wanted to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u270	You may correct something, but you may not ask a question. The same applies to the others. I consider this a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u271	Well, that sounds so heavy to me again...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u272	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u273	I would just like to say something in this debate. I note that the CDA has not supported the measures against tax avoidance year after year, so it has voted against them. D66 was reversed halfway through the cabinet period. Quite a lot has been achieved in Europe. Zwartsparen was dissolved in Luxembourg and Switzerland. There is much more international cooperation. The CDA was always in the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u274	You've made your point. Carry on, Mr. Ommzigt. If you do not respond to this, Mr Nijboer will have to respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u275	As a CDA, I took the initiative in 2008 in the Council of Europe to update the only multilateral treaty that exists against black savings. Even with negotiations here, with countries such as Austria and Luxembourg, which are obstructing them, this has led to a new treaty. At the time, the state of the art was for the automatic and spontaneous exchange of tax data on black savers, when this was not discussed here in the Chamber. So I do not know what proposals we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u276	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u277	So we see a lot in the financial agreements from our electoral programme. A substantial investment in defence, which is necessary. Investment in safety. For the stacking of care costs, Mrs. De Vries already told us there will be a subscription rate in the Wmo, so you don't pile care costs up on care costs. And there's a lot of investment in care for the elderly, about 2 billion. I'm the first to say that I'm gonna find enough qualified people to do that. Yes, and now I come to the risks and the concerns. Because, like I said, I'm gonna keep controlling the government. That means I'll pay particular attention to the risks. I mention the two biggest risks I see in the short term: a chaotic Brexit and the ECB policy. This whole budget, including the counterpart budget, for which thanks to the three parties who simply put their own plans on the table, all will be able to go straight into the trash if one of these two things goes wrong. The CDA is critical of the appointment of the ECB President as permanent president of the new ESRB, the European Systemic Risk Board. That Committee is the body responsible for macro-prudential supervision of the financial system and has the task of identifying and alerting systemic risks. But, yeah, what's the biggest systemic risk at the moment? The policy of the European Central Bank, which has itself bought thousands of billions. Should this person start to warn about himself in a somewhat schizophrenic way, so for one's own policy? I don't think that's wise. We know that the cabinet and this minister don't like it either. So a simple question: can we do something about this? Does the Commission's proposal, which proposes amendments to the ESRB, still provide for a more independent Chair of the ESRB? I'd like a response. Let me make a few comments on the ECB's own policy. How are we going to prevent, so I ask the government, that we end up in a debt union against our will? We now have a nice economic weather in Europe. All countries in the euro area are growing. Budget deficits are below 3%, except in two countries, Spain and France. So the budget deficits in the euro area are really much lower than in the US, Japan or elsewhere in the world. If you're not in a position to take down the buy-in program right now, I wonder when you'll be able to do it. It's extremely worrying if you don't do this in this beautiful weather. The ECB has, of course, announced a phasing-out of the buy-back programme. That means you keep buying up, but less. You keep gambling, but less. That's not exactly what you mean. I ask the government what financial risk the Netherlands is running through the emergency fund and the buying-in of debts by the ECB. How can the Netherlands adequately manage and reduce these risks? For example, will the Minister ask the General Court to present this in the various scenarios? The scenario in which we continue the euro area as it is, but also the scenario in which a country steps out. The first task of the Minister of Finance is to ensure the continuity of the Dutch State, including in scenarios that are not attractive. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a question for the Secretary of State for Finance. Speaking of risks, the IRS. I commend him once more for the guts he has to take this post. I mean that from the bottom of my heart, because this Tax Office has a number of problems. Are the additional resources in the government agreement sufficient to get the Tax Administration in order? Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the Paradise Papers. Thank you for the Secretary of State's re-examination of all rulings. We look forward to the result, but the rulings should have been in the central database on 1 January 2017 and should have been exchanged. So we look forward to a state of play in the next six months' report. That's the 20th again. It states the current situation with regard to the rulings. That's a promise, and at least we'll have insight. Thank you for that rather far-reaching measure, let me add. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna come up with some loose ends. The first is financial supervision, a legacy of the previous cabinet. I have not seen any times that a bank has reached a deadline to resolve the issue of SME derivatives, which is not true at all. This was confirmed in the letter sent this way just before the change of government. Affected entrepreneurs have been waiting for compensation for years. Of course, we can start at zero with this government. Spokesman Ronnes, who has often brought this up, is here for a reason. They can start at point zero and make new promises to this government. Then they can break two more before we get there. Or is this minister prepared to turn the screws on, to show that the banks have learned from this and to solve the problem files for the mbk entrepreneurs, who were often unable to continue their own business? The CDA is very pleased that the cabinet has seen the need to invest heavily in defence. I would like to assure you that the CDA Group will keep its finger on the pulse and see how these substantial funds are spent. They are on a supplementary item in the budget. I want to put down one acute concern today. That's the same acute concern I put in last year. What is the situation with regard to the preparedness and equipment of the special forces involved in the fight against terrorism, the police, but also the four military units? Think of MARSOF. We have received a confidential letter about it which has become partially public, but given the current threats, I want to know whether the equipment, at every point of the equipment they have, and the strength, at every point of the strength they must have according to the classification, is in order at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u278	So could we be informed about that? Last year we had a letter about what would be renewed. I would now like to know which things have been renewed and whether this is in order. These are the people who form the first line of defence against terrorism and they deserve our support. Then I'll join Social Services. We see very great ambitions in terms of poverty and debt. And I say, rightly so. As early as 2015, the Ombudsman pointed to the special role for the government. I call institutes like the UWV, the Tax Office and the CJIB, because they do not always respect the duty-free foot... sorry, the unwound foot; you lit me, Secretary of State. What happens then? Someone is sitting on that impounded footage, that is to say, for many people less than the level of assistance, and then again a bank account or something is being seized. At that point, that's the way to push a family or a single person completely into trouble. We'd like this to end. This means that a number of things will have to change in debt policy. I'm just focusing on debt. We'll come back to poverty a little later. I ask the government to send a letter on behalf of the government entities concerned, which are those of the Tax Administration, of Social Affairs and of Justice, because it is fragmented and then we know how it is going to deal with how the government respects the bounty-free foot but also how it is going to deal with crooked collection agencies, so that people are not haunted for 20 or 25 years by a debt collection agency that they never had, something that can be done in the Netherlands right now. Could we receive such a letter, a kind of start-up note on debt policy, to deal with the Social Affairs budget, so that there is a timetable for how we implement it? Because this is a policy that we think is important. Then care. We talk a lot in this house about the distribution of care costs. Should it go through the bounty? Should it go through the taxes? Does it have to go through its own risk? We're talking a little less about the rise in healthcare costs. It remains, as I say in all honesty, the fastest rising budget item. Costs increase from around 69 billion to around 82 billion. More than 4% real growth per year. My question is therefore whether the government is prepared, for example, to have the Scientific Council for Government Policy look at the future of this and how we can have a system of solidarity in which many people can work hard day in, day out, keep it affordable and sustainable and see if, for example, we can learn something from the surrounding countries and whether there are things that are very good and things that we say can be done a lot better, so that not only this government can deal with the care but also the governments that are still coming after this government. As I said in my introduction, this government will be controlled. But the balanced policy with which it entered the Chamber, a policy of moderate relief, tackling a number of bottlenecks and, at the same time, maintaining a budget deficit of four years, is the excellent starting point for a balanced policy. You'll see a lot of people saying "you have to deal with that" and pulling out a pebble or something else, but looking at the whole package, I have every confidence that this can bring the peace back to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u279	I will go to Mr Dijkgraaf first, because I had sent him away earlier. It sounds a little disrespectful, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u280	Yeah, I'm gonna have to process it, too. I don't know if I need any help, but if that's what it takes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u281	That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u282	Yeah, the colleagues are for that, so that's gonna be fine. The point was just about the one-earners. Mr Omtzigt spoke about the purchasing power of the single-earners who are more positive than in the past, for which I thank him. That's good, and I don't want to brush that away either. At the same time, he will also acknowledge that what we have talked about for many years is not the point of the tax gap between the earners and the two-earners. My simple question, which has also been put to the Prime Minister, is: is Mr Omtzigt open to creative plans in the future in order to solve this problem with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u283	Thank you, first of all, for taking a big step here. That is indeed part of the electoral programme of the Christian Union and the CDA. Apparently, there is always an interest in the Chamber to know from whom something came at the negotiating table, which seems to be an important subject. We're gonna take a step in this. At present, the child-related budget for a single parent is often three times higher than the child-related budget for a family with two parents who have exactly the same gross income. We thought that was unfair, and we are taking a step towards correcting it. However, there's still a big hole. We are a little less strict in the exact distinction between single and double-earners, because there are a lot of people who have one job and a partner who works one day or one and a half days a week. That's why we maintain things like the IACK, but yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u284	The question was brief and concrete and the answer must be that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u285	Yes, we are always open to constructive proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u286	Exactly. That's what it was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u287	That was the most important sentence I was waiting for, so thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u288	Very briefly. Mr Omtzigt was just proud to say that the budget deficit has lasted four years. I'd like to give him a chance to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u289	I meant, of course, budget surplus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u290	Mr Omtzigt just gave an analysis with great passion of two major macroeconomic risks: Brexit and ECB policy. Last year he talked about very big risks; I was able to read that back. Those risks are, of course, first and foremost with banks. Banks have an important role to play in the risks we share financially, where they need to be addressed in the first instance. The coalition agreement states on page 34 that we are going to reduce the leverage ratio in ordinary human language: the reserves that banks have to hold again from 4% to 3%. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u291	Let me give you three answers. Firstly, Brexit and ECB policy are not a problem for the financial sector, but for the whole of the Netherlands. In fact, that does not go through the financial sector. You know, banks can suffer from that, too. If things go wrong with the ECB and the economy goes down the drain, you get loans that have to be written off and banks sink through. Secondly, there are two measures in the coalition agreement which are actually somewhat contradictory. The first is to ensure that banks meet the same requirements as European partners. If they are raised in Europe, you will find me at your side in support of the level playing field. The second measure is a tax measure, which generates 300 million, which means that banks will have to pay more tax on borrowed money, which will provide a strong incentive for these banks to finance more with equity capital and less with borrowed capital. I hope that Mr Azarkan has also seen this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u292	I have certainly seen this measure and thank you for the answer. I'm going to focus on the leverage ratio. I heard you running very quickly: that is a European standard that we meet. The previous cabinet thought that was unwise. We can make our own choices within the Netherlands: if 3% is too low, we can reach 4%. In my opinion, the previous cabinet wanted to reach 6% in the long run, but there are also economists who say: you should actually go to 10%. Economist Nijboer, for example. Why go back now, if we're still running those risks with each other? Mr Omtzigt, I just don't understand why you say: let's just take the European average. We're too risky, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u293	My own personal preference would be for European standards to be higher, but if banks can choose where they formally settle, they can simply change their head office and branch and comply with the country's standard. Let's not fool each other about how that works here. That is why I hope that the rulers - perhaps I can ask them that question - will be committed to a stronger banking sector. Moreover, I am very concerned about the Italian banking sector and how the accounting has worked there, because that is where the real risks lie. And so it will not be through this leverage ratio in the Netherlands, but through taxation to encourage banks to mainly retain equity rather than debt. Mr Azarkan has a point. If you want to make the system robust, it is very helpful if banks have sufficient equity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u294	I thought it was a good point about DENK, but I myself have an interruption at another point. This is due to a more balanced burden on foreign and equity assets. The PvdA Group is very much in favour of this. There are also good proposals in the coalition agreement. Only now, housing corporations, which have a lot of capital and of course a lot of loans, are in danger of falling victim and really getting hundreds of millions. How's the CDA looking at that? Eventually, of course, the tenants pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u295	I think that is simply a justified question from Mr Nijboer. I would actually like to ask the government to identify exactly what effect this has on housing corporations, and I hope that, while maintaining all the guarantees of the housing fund, they are also very important to keep the costs of housing corporations under control. I'd love to see that mapped out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u296	We'll just agree on this, that's good. Another question about the tenants, which I also asked Mrs De Vries. Why does the CDA agree to cut rent payments? On balance, it accounts for 40% of the people, 3 million tenants. It is on average €146. Why did the CDA agree to this in these times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u297	We're taking some measures in the rent supplement. The first measure is that the minimum rental that everyone has to pay grows with the average rent and no longer with the award. It'll cost the tenants some money. And we make sure that people don't have that cliff that if they just earn €1 too much at once lose €500, €600, €700 rent surcharge. On balance, in the coming years, the lease charge will still be very high, so I can assure you, so more money will be spent on the rent payment while the mortgage interest deduction costs will be reduced. That part of the story is sometimes not brought to the attention of the public. I'm gonna ask you one question. So I admit, there is no intensification of the rent payment, but I just checked whether there was an intensification of the rent payment or a reversal of that provision with the 10 billion additional expenditures made by the opposition parties. They do something about the landlord's tax in order to make housing companies more sustainable, but in the rent surcharge they do not reverse any of the measure and therefore take it over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u298	On the contrary. The cabinet pays 100 million to make homes more sustainable, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u299	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u300	The Left opposition's proposals include 1.2 billion for the additional building of houses, for affordable rents, also for lower rents, because of the landlord's tax we otherwise use, so I am not going to let the CDA cut the rent surcharge here. I very much agree with the second part, the reduction of the rent allowance. That's just a good measure. I also support that, but the first thing, the austerity and the possibility of this seems very technical, I also had to find out for myself what that is exactly.... just comes down to €146 per household. Isn't there anything to talk about getting them off the table? Because affordable living should also be at the heart of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u301	This is exactly what I tried to indicate at the end of my speech. There's a package, there's quite a balance in it. That balance is, for example, that the general tax rebate that everyone is entitled to and which you also fully cash out when you are in the assistance increases by a few hundred euros. This also means that energy costs will rise less than in recent years but only a little more and so will VAT. And even in the case of rent, it is not the case that the minimum rent continues to constitute a smaller part of the income, because that was how that determination worked. With this balance we can live well and also with the fact that most income groups, for which Mr Nijboer also has a great deal of attention, are on average improving. With one exception, I see Mr Van Rooijen here already, namely the people with a higher supplementary pension. I'd like to say a few words about that last group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u302	Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u303	This cabinet has chosen to index the AOW with wage developments. This means that at the end of the cabinet period the AOW is actually about €30 per month higher than at the beginning of the cabinet period. That is after the rise in inflation. The VAT is included in that too, I say for the people who want to understand it. So the AOW is actually getting higher. That was different with other parties. This cabinet is unable to force pension funds to do an indexing. That is also one of the reasons why I am so hard on ECB policy. If that is normalized, the pension funds will get real air. They do not get that with measures that are more sham measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u304	I have a brief specific question. The CDA programme did not state that the dividend tax should be abolished. Nor did it say that the Hills Act should be abolished. Are you prepared not to abolish the dividend tax and not to abolish the Hills Act? That is a very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u305	We signed up for a whole package. There are points that we have included and points that we have not included ourselves. If each of the four coalition parties were to vote only for those things that she herself brought in, we would not be a government. That's not the way we do it either. Mr Van Rooijen himself presented a budget on 23 February. In this budget there is, among other things, a budget ceiling in the care of 1.2 billion. 1.2 billion savings on care; that is what Mr Van Rooijen proposed before the elections. There is an excise duty on weed, which amounts to 0.7 billion. That is what Mr Van Weyenberg sees more than my party, I say in all honesty. We have also had that discussion internally. But there is also just 2.5 billion in burden increase for workers, because of the freezing of the labour cut and the increase in income tax by not indexing the borders. By the way, you are very sorry about the forest tax. So I hope that Mr Van Rooijen will also want to revise his own package. I did not challenge Mr Krol for nothing to compare the package that they themselves presented with the package that we have, in which there is a reduction in charges rather than an increase in charges. We are not just taking 1.2 billion out of care in this way. We're just spending extra money on care. I've asked you to make a comparison with that. I still haven't had an answer to that, even though I asked three weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u306	It is up to us to decide when to give answers. That can be done in detail with the Tax Plan, and also today and tomorrow. Of course, I would have expected that question long after the Twitter messages that Mr Omtzigt has been posting lately. I would like to quote page 259 of Choices in Map: "The CDA intends to conclude a broad agreement in hospital care and mental health care in conjunction with the macro-management tool. On balance, this results in a reversal of EUR 0.9 billion in hospital care and EUR 0.1 billion in mental health care."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u307	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u308	It is therefore an expenditure plan of 1 billion. We are a little higher, but you shouldn't just talk about our program. First of all, you need to talk about your own program. There you have a ceiling of 1 billion. If you do not manage that in these sectors, the macro-management tool will be in place and you will still have to do it in mental health care, in district health care and so on. I call this a one-sided quote. This afternoon I come to the other points of yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u309	It is not for nothing that the government has not opted for a budget ceiling. That wasn't there either. It said, "a major agreement." It is an agreement with the healthcare sector to work together... That's how we do it in the Netherlands. Because this cabinet also likes to work with social partners when it comes to the pension system. I hope that there will also be cooperation with the older people's associations, which have a great deal of interest in this. This cabinet should also work with the care sector to see how care costs can be kept in the ropes and how to ensure that the additional staff associated with the 2 billion extra that can be spent on nursing homes can be found in a good way. That's gonna be quite a challenge. That is why we do not opt for that budget ceiling. That's an emergency brake, which says you can't. We choose not only to reach out to the opposition but also to society. We consider this to be extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u310	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u311	I have to quote that one more time, or we're gonna get around the facts. It says literally in the CDA programme: 'to conclude a broad agreement, together with a macro-management instrument', and we know from last week's debate what a cynical cut that is. If the sectors do not come together, for example, the district care system and the social security system, then the management tool will simply go into operation and this cut will be imposed in any case. You know that as well as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u312	Mr President, I would point out that healthcare costs are rising from 69 billion to 82 billion. That really was a concern of mine. That is also why the PVV says: care premiums are rising. These care premiums are increasing because real care costs are increasing. Let us take a good look at how we do that. I'd love to! We do so, contrary to what is written here, in consultation with the partners, but if we do not come out, there are other instruments. And that is a completely different way from what was just proposed here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u313	Speaking of care, we know the CDA as a party that has a warm heart for care of the elderly. Mrs Mona Keijzer, who always said that home care, domestic aid should not actually be abolished or halved, what happened under the previous cabinet, because of the fact that older people have to stay home longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u314	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u315	Now I have a good solution to that, namely the abolition of the expat regime, which the CDA is also in favour of. That's what they have in the election program. Those 600 million that we're saving, we're giving to the domestic aid for the elderly, which the CDA says they care so much. Do you support that or are you now putting your fingers in the ears?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u316	I hope that Mr Van Dijck has also read the coalition agreement. There is more money for the nursing homes than the PVV has ever proposed, not on her A4's or anywhere else. Because the own contributions in the Wmo are maximized, the forms of care that Mr Van Dijck just mentioned become more easily accessible. This often leads to greater use being made of it. At his question what we have done with the expat scheme, I can tell him that about 25% to 30% has been reduced by shortening the period from eight to five years. Well, you know exactly how that went. We wanted to get rid of it. Other parties wanted to maintain him completely. This is the compromise that we have reached on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u317	This is a nice proposal with a cover that you like, a cover that also pleases the Christian Union, a cover that also likes D66. It is for the elderly who now, as Geert Wilders said last week, in many cases have to cash in their funeral policy in order to be able to pay for that cleaning aid. That's impossible, isn't it? That is why we say: do something for domestic help! If these older people have to stay home longer, you should also facilitate them through home care and domestic help. Nice solution, nice cover, where's the outstretched hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u318	That outstretched hand is the 300 million which the government agreement represents for the reduction of the Wmo's own contribution through the subscription rate. As a result, for many people, the costs of precisely the care that Mr Van Dijck outlined will be significantly reduced and that care will become more accessible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u319	Also a question about the care. I share Mr Omtzig's concern that in the longer term we must ensure that care costs are manageable, affordable and also shared fairly. I see something in his proposal to await the reaction of the cabinet, because who knows, the Scientific Council for Government Policy will look into it. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we are looking at a fair distribution of costs, because the increase in the nominal premium and the own risk, which is now flattened, are also causing a sneaky privatisation of healthcare costs, one might say. But my specific question is, and then we go back to budgetary policy: this cabinet is going to conclude major agreements and hope to reduce the cost of care. It's a little more optimistic than the CPB. But if it succeeds and the premiums go down, people are happy, because nominal premiums are falling...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u320	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u321	...then the cabinet says: the taxes go up, rate first disc. What kind of trick is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u322	We're doing our best to keep it totally financially viable. We are a little optimistic about that. I have to hand one thing to the outgoing U.S. Secretary of State. With the main agreements, it has succeeded in curbing the cost of care significantly compared to the forecasts that had been made, with the exception of a number of cuts with which we disagreed, Mrs Renske. Mrs. Leijten...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u323	Mrs. Renske.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u324	I find it difficult to call someone outside the room "Renske" and here "Mrs Leijten." So sometimes this happens for a while. When I say "Minister Wopke," you know exactly where that came from, Mr. President. We hope that it will go along with these basic agreements and that we will continue to look together to see what kind of concern, when and how best we can use it. I'm willing to see exactly what happens if it's not too bad. What strikes me is that if I had said yes to all the hands that have been put out here in the last hour, the Finance Minister would have been able to go straight to Brussels to explain that he had a deficit of more than 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u325	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u326	I'm just saying, I'm really afraid to say this every time I say, "I don't do this, I don't do that, and I don't do that." I'm in that temptation, too. I'm also sometimes tempted...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u327	Clearly, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u328	Yeah, sorry, I'm not going to elaborate on that. I think it would be wise for you to cut me off, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u329	Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u330	I interpret this optimistically. Mr Omtzigt wants to break down the door, but he does not have the courage to say that. I am pleased with that. However, I would like to say a few words about the broad lines of the agreement. What's the message now? If the new Minister of Health manages to reduce costs, is the message to people: your nominal premiums are falling, but your taxes are rising? That's not a message, is it? Shouldn't that be different?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u331	I would prefer to lower the tax and increase all kinds of other things: spend uninhibited care costs, take the classes to twenty students per class, give the army 2 billion in accordance with our election programme. We are trying to make these choices to ensure that the budget continues to show that surplus. If we don't do it and we do bring down taxes, we're gonna be short in 2021. And yes, I'm trying to avoid that somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u332	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u333	That's not the question, is it? I am in favour of that. There are unnecessary bureaucratic costs in the healthcare system. But if you manage to bring it down or slow it down and the nominal premiums are down, down or down as fast as is now estimated, then you can't say: and now I've got you, because now I'm raising taxes? Surely you can't do that if you want to have support in society for those basic agreements? And I think it is very important to ensure that people participate in thinking about reducing healthcare costs. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u334	This cabinet has led to the largest tax reduction for citizens for a long time. I'm doing my best to maintain it. I am also going to see how I deal with the problem that Mr Snels points out. Moreover, I hope that Mr Snels will be right because a reduction in the nominal premium would really be effective. However, I can assure him that this will not work with the policy we are proposing, nor with the policy proposed by any opposition party here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u335	Here you see the problem caused by Minister Zalm, who thought: increase the state budget by including the health funds in the budget. In fact, however, we are not talking about this. We have no control over this, because it lies with health insurance companies. So if you have a limitation there, you have to add it somewhere else. Here we see what disadvantage that has. You should cut that loose, but we will have another debate on it. The question is about one's own risk. Look, the CDA went into the election and said to people: with us you get €100 less of your own risk and that is necessary because the care costs are no longer payable. The CDA did not say: the rich get tax cuts and the dividend tax is abolished. Are the abolition of this dividend tax and your commitment to reduce the risk by €100? So, Mr Hoekstra, Minister Hoekstra does not have to go to Europe to say that the budget deficit is rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u336	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u337	Is the CDA prepared to start a renegotiation for the benefit of the sick? In doing so, the importance of affordability of health care for those who are ill must go beyond the importance of abolishing the dividend tax for those who are already rich.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u338	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u339	If you look at the CPB billing, you can see that this government policy puts the business sector at about 0, and the household sector at -5 billion. That is a balanced choice. At the moment, I do not see anything in it, not even in view of the agreements made. Mrs Leijten says: but that tax reduction was not visible in your election programme. The electoral programme included both a reduction in the general rate and a reduction in the higher rate. Mr Hoekstra must correct me, not as a minister but as chairman of the programme committee, if I am wrong. Both reductions are in the coalition agreement, in accordance with our wishes. We just did something different with the employment discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u340	The dividend tax was not included in the CDA programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u341	No, I didn't. But whoa, wait a minute...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u342	I also think there might have been another election result if the CDA had gone on the campaign with the message: we give the wealthy investors in the world 1.4 billion and we do nothing about our own risk. You've spelled something on people's sleeves. How do you think people no longer trust politicians and politics? Because no one proposed to give away that 1.4 billion and because a majority suggested to do something about their own risk. And we come to the opposite. This is detrimental to the faith in politics. I asked the CDA if they were prepared to renegotiate with these arguments in the back pocket. It's about restoring trust. You shouldn't promise something and do the other thing. Are you prepared to renegotiate these arguments? Are you prepared to renegotiate with the VVD, which I believe is the only party that wants to do so and with the other parties who are actually ashamed of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u343	The answer was no. It was also very interesting that Mrs Leijten first accused us of not having that tax reduction in our electoral programme. I see her shaking no now, but she said so herself. Lowering the highest rate was not in the program. It was indeed in our programme, according to now that it is policy. There's a lot of things in there that we've achieved. You acted as if the issues contained in the coalition agreement were not related to our electoral programme. Quod nun. Then I'll come back to the care. On this subject, we had stated in our election programme that our own risk would fall by €100 in the first year and would then be indexed. Then you would have had a reduction from €400 to €300 and the own risk at the end of the cabinet period would be around €360 or €370. There is now another outcome, because other parties wanted to fully index that own risk and would have reached around €485. In the CDA programme we would reach around €360 or €370 in 2021. In other programmes we would be worth €480. Now we reach €400, no, at €385 after the freezing. This is a compromise in which the outcome in 2021 is much closer to the outcome of our programme than in the other programmes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u344	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u345	Two. We were going to do something about the accumulation of our own contributions. We'll do something about that with the Wmo subscription rate. Would I have wanted something more? Yes, of course. I'd have wanted more seats, too. I always have wishes. But I stand for the policy we have agreed on here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u346	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u347	€100 less own risk was promised and it is now: freezing. And Mr Omtzigt knows how to explain it in such a way that it seems as if that was actually what we wanted. Here's why people no longer have faith in politicians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u348	Mr President, Mrs Leijten has now explained a CDA item three times differently. Firstly, she says that we do not have certain things in the program that are in it. Secondly, we reduced this year's own risk compared to what the then government proposed. By the way, there were parties in it who are now in opposition and who are suddenly in favour of it. And yes, if I had the chance, I'd like to lower it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u349	Thank you. No, no, Mrs. Leijten. I see you're trying to react again, but I can't. You have the floor now. I mean, you have the floor for your speech. Thank you. It's your turn. Members want a short suspension first? Yeah? Then I'll suspend for two minutes. No, we're not eating yet. After Mrs Leijten's speaking time, I shall suspend for lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u350	I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u351	Growing up in a fine house, playing outdoors in a safe and green street, can play sports, learn at a school where teachers have attention for you and your classmates, parents without worry about work and income, whether they can still pay the rent or the bills, learn for themselves without having to put yourself in debt, if you go into the labour market, have the certainty of a job to build your future, grow up into a person who knows that there is more than its own interest. For example, I would like to see the future of all children in the Netherlands: that it doesn't matter if you are the son or daughter of a consultant or a cleaner, that it doesn't matter if your family's roots are elsewhere or here. Unfortunately, it's not. Politicians organize society. We make, as it were, paradise on earth, where before the introduction of democracy we were told that paradise might come after death, heaven or hell. If you have the tools to organize the world, it's important to show what you're doing, who you're doing it for, and why you're doing it. The Dutch are very concerned. They are concerned about the growing gap between rich and poor, the gap that exists through birth, where the starting position of one is better than that of the other. One has the future and the possibilities I just outlined and the other has to fight against the circumstances from a young age, because the crib was somewhere else. Living and working in worse conditions, which is the practice for people with practical training, on average leads to a life that is seven years shorter. And in that life you are still sick longer than when that position is different. In the Dutch education system, children are not given the same opportunities regardless of their background and their parents. No, it is the children of parents with practical training, professions that are more practical and deserve less, who are less likely to receive school advice that is different from that of children of parents with theoretical training. What are these leaders going to do about this inequality in health and education? Do they stoically refer to their colleagues in the cabinet or do they realise that these differences are due to socio-economic differences? That's exactly what they can do about it. And are these the rulers who look at Excelsheets, at bills, at dots here, dots there or at society? I want to take the first test. There's still an education cut of 46 million. The cabinet says we're gonna do something about education, we're gonna meet the teachers. As far as we're concerned, it's not enough, but the cabinet says we're meeting them. And actually the very first thing the Minister of Education has to do is to cut down 46 million in the classes, in the teachers, in the future generation. Are these rulers prepared to do something about it? There's money left this year. There is a budget surplus throughout the cabinet period. 46 million is not exactly what financial spokesmen fall down from. It's doable anyway. We're usually talking about billions here, I'm just saying. The Minister has announced that he wants to assume peace, cleanliness and regularity in his policy. But does he think it is a matter of calm, cleanliness and regularity that tax deals are being made with multinational companies that can fund hundreds of millions of dollars in income tax? Or he says, no, it's not peace, cleanliness and regularity, it's theft of societies. You make a profit on raw materials from Africa, on clothes made in India, on coffees sold in America, on sports shoes made in China. And what do you do as a company? You raise your big middle finger to the societies where you've earned it. And I understand that this minister was addressed yesterday in Brussels on the Netherlands tax haven. There you are, for the first time with your new colleagues, having important discussions about the future of the European Union and the currency union in it, and then you are being addressed to it. What exactly did this minister promise to bring to an end the Netherlands' tax haven? The Secretary of State will review all tax deals concluded between companies, multinationals and the Tax Administration. Very good step. He has inherited not only the Tax Administration which is difficult, but also this practice, which I believe is no longer of this time. Who's gonna do the investigation? When will the investigation be completed? Why don't we agree that until that investigation is over, we won't issue any rulings for a while? How do we make the Netherlands a paradise for everyone? That is what must be at the heart of politics. Who has access to paradise? Is it the right choice, if there are still 400,000 children growing up in poverty, the food banks are still needed, there are people who cannot find a home because of the housing shortage, the teachers stop for more colleagues, there are elderly people living at home who need home care but do not get it, reduce the tax on profits and abolish the dividend tax? What is that really for a limited look at companies to say that they only have taxes in mind? The locational climate is determined by very different things, isn't it? A well-educated population, a working democracy, a rule of law, a legal system, infrastructure and yes, culture. The VVD doesn't like to hear that, but research shows that the expats who come to work here want to go to the museum. But if we know that, why do we have such an excessive view of these taxes? Why do we say to those companies that are so tax-driven to pay as little as possible or no tax: come here, here you must be! We must say much more: come here, because we are a beautiful country, we are a paradise where the children play outside, where your children can grow well, and not just the children of expats, also the children of the neighborhoods next door. It is about employment when it comes to reducing the tax on profits and dividends, because, yes, we must remain an attractive country. But the question is: what jobs and what economy exactly do we want? Do we just want to show that we make the money abroad through export? Because it's not true, it's not true. And over the past few years, that has been the dominant factor. In fact, this has resulted in contempt for those people who work in the public service. Those are the people for the class, those are the people who care for others, those are the ones who serve the safety of the streets, the people who, at risk of their own lives, are marching out when there is a fire, an accident or violence. There's a contempt for that, and I don't like it. There is also contempt for the economic strength of our society. I'm not okay with that either. The previous government literally said: well, we can cut back on care, because care is not a job project. That is contempt for a million people who, day in, day out in the evenings, in the nights, in the weekends, take care of other people and often provide a salary for which a lot of people in this room would not stand up. Does the Minister recognise that for peace, purity and regularity in the economy it is good to appreciate this domestic economy? Investing in people, in work, in their income, including in the public service, leads you to invest in our society. After all, they buy groceries from the middle class, they have their bike made at the bike maker. Does this government recognise that the moment you strengthen the domestic economy, you're less vulnerable to international shocks? Does this government recognise that two thirds of people work in our domestic economy and that it does not give a pass to say: we make the money abroad? Mr. Chairman. Is this cabinet going to restore citizens' confidence in politics? The cynicism is deep. A third of the citizens questioned by e.g. EenVandaag are very frustrated about politics. If this coalition agreement is going to increase or reduce the division in society, EenVandaag also asked. As many as two thirds of the people said that they think the government is widening the gap between rich and poor. While research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also shows that the third concern of the Dutch is the inequality in our country. Of course, that's because of what I said at first. If you live in an unequal position, it simply leads to shorter life, an unhealthy life, less opportunities in education. The report of the Scientific Council for Government Policy, the fall of the middle class, describes that the middle class needs to step harder and harder not to fall behind. They're talking about the tread on the tires, which hits so slutty that the brakes don't actually work anymore. That's because the middle class's savings position has now evaporated. In addition, we also have a Gini coefficient.............................................................................................................................................................. If that's 1, that means that one person in the country has all the wealth, all the wealth and the rest doesn't. That's nine in our country. This means that a very small group of Dutch people has the capacity and the rest hardly has the capacity to build up power. If something breaks down, or someone gets sick, or someone loses their job, they're in the wind right away. What are we gonna do about it? We see in this year's Millions Note that incomes have not increased in purchasing power since 2001, while there has been economic growth. This is due to rising healthcare costs and rising energy costs. Where income does rise, the burden increases just as hard and the purchasing power has evaporated. One of the reasons for this is that the income-dependent care premium stops if you earn €53,000. You don't pay up there anymore. It would be very good for the air in the middle incomes, if we took that threshold out. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Surely it would be a regular thing if all incomes paid an equal percentage to that income-dependent part? This really improves the purchasing power of those who cannot actually have a setback. I would also like to know whether the government is prepared to provide insight into the €220 higher household energy bill next year. We do not know exactly where that comes from. How exactly is this account divided between households and polluters? The previous cabinet didn't have such a good track record, so to speak. The polluters and the fossil industry received subsidies and if the energy bill had to be paid, this was done by households. Is this cabinet gonna do that differently? Surely that would be of purity, of honesty. Mr. Chairman. The SP chooses people over multinationals. Together with the Labour Party and GroenLinks, we have made a proposal for six other choices. It is not another coalition agreement, we have not negotiated for 200 days, but we have made clear choices how to do it differently. With us, more than 70,000 jobs are added. Purchasing power is improving. There's less inequality. Moreover, we do not opt for a fine on being sick for people who become sick. We are abolishing our own risk. There will be no more expensive groceries for everyone. There is no huge tax discount for those who already have a lot. The government has said that the door of the Trêveszaal is ajar. Mr Omtzigt has just said that if all these proposals are accepted, the Minister must return to Brussels. No, this is a proposal that is budgetaryly neutral. It doesn't have to go to Brussels. You can do this in a minute. You can choose people over multinationals. In what way is the door of the Trêveszaal ajar? No risk of your own. Build more houses. The gas in Groningen really goes down, like we promised. Wage increases for everyone. Everyone also says that this is good because wages are lagging behind the growth of the economy. Smaller classes. Appreciating Wajangers and not giving them another discount. It's a job for politicians to make sure it's paradise for everyone, not a few. This minister says: I choose peace, purity and regularity. You can achieve that this way. Then you don't choose that financial sector where you barely see peace, cleanliness and regularity, with exorbitant bonuses, with behavior of suits whatever you can get, from parasitating to society, to the people who do the work. That is where we could get money, not the future of all our children. I ask the Minister for his support here. To support the line of people over multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-08-tweedekamer-4.u352	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten, just in time. We need a short lunch break.
