ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr Duisenberg has written a farewell letter. I'm gonna read it to you now. Where is Mr Duisenberg? Yeah, I see him. "Dear President, dear Khadija, Although I look forward to my next step, it is also with pain in my heart that I have to inform you that I will be chairman of the Association of Universities on 1 October and will leave the House of Representatives on 6 September. The past five years in the Chamber have been a great mix of new experiences for me, with interesting and passionate people and collegiality throughout all parties. But not least: it was five years with results. The Netherlands has emerged stronger from the crisis and in the long term many changes have been put in place. In my area, higher education and science, I have been able to contribute to this together with colleagues from other parties. For example, the loan system was created in a constructive coalition with Mohammed Mohandis, Paul van Meenen and of course Jesse Klaver under the terrace heater in my backyard." Now all the secrets come out! "Almost Chamberwide my motion was supported for more academics for the class. With Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Beertema and Mr Grashoff we fought for quality assurance in training. And with Mr. Rog and Mr. Bruins for technical education. In addition to the own committee, I have tried to contribute to the House of Representatives itself. Most Committees have started working with the fixed method for better control and accountability of expenditure and impacts of policies. Together with your Chamber of Representatives I organized the V-100 to get more attention for Accountability Day and to involve people more in politics. As chairman of the Finance Committee, I have tried to support the committee's professionalism and collegiality. Highlights in the professional sense were the many debates about Greece, the banks, the Tax Administration and the visit of Draghi. And yet the difficult decision to leave the Chamber. Why? Five years ago, I made the conscious choice to leave business to contribute to the public interest. I've been doing that here in the Chamber with heart and soul for the last five years. In my new role as chairman of the Association of Universities, I intend to do so with the same conviction. The Dutch universities have the shared ambition to contribute prominently to the Netherlands as a knowledge society and to jointly promote a top position, both at the heart of our society and at the international playing field. I can help to further shape and implement this ambition. And of course, you know me, as in the Chamber, it is important that we are transparent about what we do and what we achieve. I hope that with my motives I have indicated that this has not been an easy decision, but it is an opportunity that I do not want to pass up in order to be able to contribute to universities in this way. Finally, a few words of thanks. I would like to thank the Members with whom I was allowed to work. I would like to express my special thanks to my colleagues in my group and to my party, the VVD, for the special period since 2012 in which we did not move forward but dealt with it. Also for the new team I was very motivated and I fully understand that my decision is unexpected for you too. Finally, Khadija, a word of thanks to you. We have worked behind the scenes a number of times for the House of Representatives in recent years. I respect that you've been critical of my departure from your role. I would like to thank you for our cooperation and through you all employees of the House of Representatives: a warm organisation, full of personal and professional involvement. In particular, I would like to mention: the Registrar of the Finance Committee, René Berck, the Registrar of the OCW Committee, Eveline de Kler, all the staff of the hard-working and oh so useful Bureau of State Research and all the other staff who support us in our work. And certainly not unexpectedly, my last words in this Chamber are: stay focused on a good spending of our taxpayers' money. Greetings, Pieter Duisenberg." The transition is a bit weird, but this resignation has been notified to the President of the Central Voting Office and to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I propose that this letter be adopted for notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	Now I'm gonna say something back, and you're gonna hold your heart, I think! It's not that bad. Dear Mr Duisenberg, dear Pieter, Six months after being re-elected as a VVD member, you leave the Chamber. It's no secret that I'm sorry. Of course, because you would have expected more from your party and voters, but certainly also because you could have meant much more for the Chamber as a whole. You have shown that you have a warm heart for the Chamber's knowledge and information position. For example, you were part of the sounding board group with the catchy name KVKO, or the group of MPs who, on behalf of the Bureau, have been looking at strengthening the knowledge and research position of the Chamber. But I am also thinking of the Duisenberg method. At the end of 2012, as a newcomer in the Chamber, you experienced for the first time a budget treatment of Education, Culture and Science. Trained as a macro-economic and monetary economist, you would have gone through the education budget from a to z. But with your colleagues, you saw much less interest in the government's household book. Together with D66-Kamer member Paul van Meenen you therefore came up with a new methodology, in which two committee members, one of the coalition and one of the opposition, control the budgets and report to the rest of the committee. In the meantime, eight committees use this method. You should be proud of that. You moved on, too. You felt that the budget and, above all, accountability were not a matter for the Hague. That's why the Chamber organised the V100 earlier this year on the initiative of the Finance Committee, which you were chairman of. This was a great success: a meeting in which 100 citizens from all over the population were allowed to participate in the annual reports, which are so boring and tough, from the ministries and asked questions about them. I understand that the directors have answered all these questions. Pieter, you're entering a world you know well. You have often questioned the Minister critically about the numerus fixus in technical studies and also in a less noisy tone you managed to get things done for science and education. For example, you played an important role in developing the student loan system. You were closely involved in the negotiations with GroenLinks, about which you have just said something. Partly due to the support of that party, the proposal eventually reached a majority in both Chambers, which is a major achievement. These negotiations cost you, in your own words, a year of your life. Again, I'm so sorry you're leaving. With you also leaves an active and involved MP and a committee chairman. I wish you every success with this new step, and good luck. Thank you.
