ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u1	If that is what you want, as I say to Members, I would also like to suspend the sitting so that you can give hands, but I think it is useful to continue. I have already welcomed the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. Two years ago, in this house, we agreed by a large majority to the European Union's association agreement with Ukraine. It was, to some extent, a routine issue, but the EU Association Treaty was also a rather distant issue. The word "referendum" didn't even fall. But now we're back here, because something came up. We knew that. The results of the consultative referendum have led to many serious problems. Anyone with a little sense of domestic and international relations was visibly struggling with the outcome of this referendum. The national godfather of the referendum, D66, even adopted a motion at a party congress stating that this kind of referendum could not be the intention. 'Luminousness' is the word my group used all the time when the new referendum law was adopted by a majority here, not by my group. The Prime Minister of the now outgoing cabinet, or rather his party, was not in favour of the referendum law either, but it was for the sake of peace with the coalition partner. This probably happened under the motto "who lives, who then cares" or else armed with the self-confidence of a cheerful juggler in a circus tent, who can always have an extra ball to keep in the air. But that extra ball was called "Ukraine," and it fell to the ground. To make this first referendum possible, the Action Group GeenPeil, assisted by the platform GeenStijl, had created a useful digital application. In an instant, 300,000 signatures were collected for a referendum against something that happened to be the first, namely the Association Treaty. Such an app is of course something different than old-fashioned by weather and wind and door to door under an umbrella begging for attention and a signature. I must tell the initiators of this referendum that they were later honest about their motives. To quote the President of the Civil Society Forum: "We don't care about Ukraine, of course. There's no way we can have a nexia meeting so far. That is why we take every opportunity to put pressure on the relationship between the Netherlands and the EU." To avoid misunderstandings: such a thing is not prohibited, but significant. All the more so because our reliability and reputation vis-à-vis 27 other partner countries is at stake. The referendum itself met the legal requirements. The rise of over 32% was above the 30% threshold. 61% of the nearly 4 million voters voted against the association agreement. The choice was then up to the cabinet to follow this ruling or not. It has chosen not to follow this advisory ruling. The cabinet has looked at the main objections among the no-voters. It finally got the Member States of the European Union to take a decision to respond to these concerns. That must have taken some effort. For example, this decision now states that the Association Treaty does not open the door to EU membership. That was nowhere in the association agreement, but well, now we know it again. The decision of the 28 Heads of Government in Brussels on 15 December is, according to the Cabinet, a legally binding interpretation of five points in the Association Treaty. At the same time, the Treaty remains unchanged, to quote the chief lawyer of the European Council. I don't want to go here on the path of tribal finesse. The cabinet says it can be done and the Council of State confirms that gross mode too. With respect for the cabinet's efforts, we are not at the heart of this talk about interpretations. As far as we are concerned, the key question remains: is it a yes or a no to this essentially unchanged association agreement? The cabinet says yes, because it finds the risks of a no irresponsiblely high. The cabinet points out the risks of increasing instability in Ukraine and the consequences it has for the European Union to be an effective player on the global playing field for prosperity and stability, at least as the cabinet puts it, it is rather wide-ranging and woolly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u3	It is not the essence of Mr Knapen's view that I understand that from his point of view, but I would like to come back to the previous point of the annex to the European Council's decision and its legal status. The partymate of Mr Knapen in the Lower House, Pieter Omtzigt, has consistently called it an "inlegvelletje." There has been a lot of discussion about what is the legal status or the legal effect of this. The lawyer of the European Council clearly states that it does not alter the content of the agreement and that it does not bind Ukraine. It shall not be legally binding on the other Party. This is also very clear from international treaty law. It is not binding in the terms of Article 31 (2) (b) of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treations. Mr Knapen says he does not want to go into that legal discussion. That conclusion surprises me. Doesn't the CDA Group have an opinion on this in the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u4	We do have an opinion on this, but we find it less important in the prioritisation of arguments with which we look at this treaty, simply because the chief lawyer of the European Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have just quoted him as saying that the treaty is unchanged. So we have here to assess the Treaty as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u5	That is a clear answer, but I am curious to know exactly what the CDA's opinion is on the legal status of the declaration, the so-called 'inlay sheet', because I have not been able to hear it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u6	We understand from the government's replies that it is indeed legally binding. The Council of State, as I indicated, says it can be broadly Modo. The Council of State also questions it, but said at second instance, after a detailed explanation by the Cabinet, that it could be done in this way, also because the President of Ukraine has indicated that this decision is necessary. If that gives you the weight that you could give it, you could also see that the interpretation of Article 32 of the Vienna Convention law is different from what Mr Van Apeldoorn is suggesting. However, we have an expert in the field of international law, who will perhaps comment on this later. Having said that, we come to the conclusion that we must debate here an unchanged treaty in the first instance and not a decision taken in Brussels on further interpretations of that treaty, because the Treaty itself is unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u7	We are going to have that debate. But Mr Knapen refers to the cabinet which states that it is legally binding. The Council of State states that it is not legally binding on Ukraine. The European Council's lawyer comes to the same conclusion. Do Mr Knapen and the CDA Group in the Senate agree on that specific point that it may be legally binding, but not for Ukraine: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u8	Previous rulings of the European Court of Justice have shown that an agreed interpretation of a treaty does indeed have the weight to take into account in the interpretation that, and the judgement that the European Court gives to the status of the Convention. In that sense, it can very well be binding. But since this is not at the heart of the discussion for us, we do not need to have the last word on this either. That is why I said that we are concerned with the Treaty as it stands in the first instance. The cabinet has pointed out the risks if we do not adopt this association agreement. Let me try to make that a little more concrete, because that is actually crucial. I want to do this from three angles: Ukraine itself, our ally-friendly environment and Russia. In Ukraine, this association agreement is an iconic symbol of a choice for the West and thus against the authoritarian East. Anyone who is familiar with the history of that part of Europe knows how dramatic such a choice was and still is between east and west. The Maidan uprising of late 2013, beginning 2014 was also about this choice. It was a rebellion against President Yanukovych and for the signing of this association agreement. At Maidan Square the candles still burn for 130 youngest people who left their lives for this purpose. Oekräine is a fragile, divided, fragile construction. No one can predict what the cancellation of the association agreement, the reversal of this iconic symbol, will be for effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u9	I believe that we have already had this debate at the end of June 2015. Then we discussed the association agreement and now we are going to talk about the Prime Minister's insert. Mr Knapen is concerned with his own text, but does he not think that we have already had this debate? And what's the point of repeating it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u10	What is the point of repeating it, I probably do not have to explain to Mrs Faber. There was a referendum and a referendum requires that the cabinet then responds to it. After that, the two houses of the States-General are next. So it's our turn now. I would also like to speak about the follow-up to the vote after the last time. So I'll come back to that. I told you, Ukraine is a fragile, divided, fragile construction. No one can predict exactly what the cancellation of the association agreement, the reversal of this iconic symbol, is for effect. Will it become unrest, increase internal tension, violence among themselves, green males: who can say? It's all playing with fire in the nervous ambience of tensions between Russia and its neighbours. It is not by chance either, and that is my second point of view: all the allies relevant to our country, with Germany, France and Great Britain in particular, have always encouraged our country to ratify the association agreement. They are aware of the geopolitical risks and are concerned. And let us be honest: in all kinds of issues that affect us more than Ukraine, we urgently need these countries. With such allies, you don't jump lightly. Reliability and calculability are crucial features for a small country, which must rely on its European environment. If we criticize this cabinet, it is that this referendum law has made it lightly to our main partners. Does the Cabinet realize this by now? And, I would add, our close allies have been becoming more important to us since the Ukraine referendum. Just think: in Turkey we had a failed coup and now we are heading towards an authoritarian system with large internal tensions and with spillover effects up to Hamburg and the Coolsingel. Terrible things happen in Syria that affect us directly, but which we can only gain some grip on through cooperation in Europe. From the Sahel to the Mediterranean, Europe is under attack. Cross-border agreements are vital to us. We also urgently need our allies to do this. And then some of our trusted beacons of the last half century have been unleashed. The British are leaving the Union and America is leaving itself. We are only a little glad that Chancellor Merkel, sometimes also somewhat on our behalf, occasionally smashes a picket pole into the ground. Thirdly, there is Russia, in particular the Russian President's movements and phony movements: with border violations, with Iskander missiles near Kaliningrad, with green males, with Russian submarines in unexpected places. That is why even the Swedishs re-established the military service a few months ago. And Sweden is not exactly a country that has a military macho image to uphold. Let me just say that the situation is not risk-free. For our country really relevant allies, we will not want to get on the wrong track after everything that happened around us just after that referendum last year. In political choices, we cannot always be guided by what we find, but also by what the consequences of our actions can be. Gesinnungsethik versus Verantwortungsethik, as Max Weber called it. Ukraine is a country steeped in corruption. Fighting it only works when the Ukrainians take it seriously. Well, there are signs that they're working on it. You can't impose it from the outside. And experience also shows that eradication of corruption is a matter of many, many years. Last year, for example, in Kiev, the salaries of higher judges were drastically increased, and that was sensible. But all the lower judges still have such low wages that they can only live on gifts, of corruption. You get used to that quickly and after twenty-five years you don't know better. Don't get me wrong, that's not strictly a reason not to sign a treaty with Ukraine. Then we do with so many countries that are not or less in order than a decent citizen would like. You do not have it in the world for choosing and for some stability you will have to try to be a bit orderly with as many countries as possible. However, having said that, the whole Eastern Partnership programme of the European Union is important to promote stability at our eastern borders by promoting the rule of law there. You don't want Mafia states at your borders, because that always leads to all kinds of unwanted spill-over effects. The cabinet indicates that the association agreement with Ukraine offers a wide range of tools to combat corruption, but in its preparation generalities are an asset in the cabinet. What is particularly striking, apart from that, is that our actions to promote the rule of law in Ukraine seem to be a patchwork of uncoherent interventions. NATO is doing something about the Ukrainian army, the Ukraine Task Force in Brussels is doing something about retraining, the lenders of loans are doing something about the procurement rules, the IMF is doing something about releasing new tranches, and so on, and so on. Can this association agreement provide some direction in these patchwork? Does this agreement offer a stage to take stock at regular intervals, to record Milestones and to keep everyone up to date? It is precisely in this house that the question of effectiveness must always be asked. I'd like to get a reaction to this. For our group, this approval law is not an easy choice. First of all, it comes from something that we were, and are, opposed to, are and remain, of that so-called false security called referendum. It is emerging as an instrument of polarisation and disrupts the cautious handicrafts of a multi-cultural society, in which conflicting views and interests must be reconciled over and over again in order to enable groups of citizens to live together. In short, it undermines the compromise. In international treaties, a referendum also puts a bomb under the authority, reliability and relevance of our country at international negotiating tables. Referenda on international treaties are confusing, give voters the false impression that one country has the last word and so ultimately frustrate the electorate rather than engage him or her. I'm rounding up. The treaty itself associates us more closely with a country that has already had 10,000 deaths due to that nasty slumber war on the east side, with a country...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u11	Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u12	Mr Knapen concludes, so I would like to ask the following question. In his speech, it is very clear that the CDA Group has been and still is against the Consulting referendum Act and that the CDA Group considers the referendum a thing. She is consistent in that. It is also very clear that it is in favour of association with Ukraine. In this way the CDA Group has its own considerations. Of course, the SP Group has a different opinion on this. I have not yet heard Mr Knapen say how he and the CDA Group weigh here the clear result of the referendum, the clear and massive no to the association agreement. I only heard him say that it started with an action by GeenStijl and GeenPeil and that the signatures were picked up quite easily via an app. I found that rather bathinating, by the way. There was a very clear result. Many political parties, including those of Mr Knapen, have previously expressed their views on how to take this result seriously. How does the CDA group in this house take the results seriously or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u13	I am going to tell Mr Apeldoorn in the last minute and a half of my speaking time. We are talking about an association agreement with a country in which 10,000 people died during that war. We are talking about a country that has nearly 2 million internally displaced people as a result of that same war. This treaty associates the European Union with a country that has a fragile state and everything that goes with shortcomings and abuses. It is an association agreement which has been ratified by 28 countries and which all our relevant allies attach great importance to without exception. But it is also an association agreement with which almost 2.5 million Dutch people have expressed their preference not to want it. We are aware that this was not a binding referendum but merely a consultative one. At the same time, it is quite important to ignore 2.5 million citizens who said no on 6 April last year. That's not small. From this political point of view, the CDA Group in the House of Representatives has therefore said that this opinion should be followed. In this house, a little further away from the daily heat of politics, the final word must now fall. All this requires empathy, care and overview. There is a range of opinions about the final choice, including in our party. In our group, there seems to be a large majority in favour of the legislative proposal. That is why we look forward to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u14	For the record, the last part of Mr Knapen's text was very clear. I would just like to quote a Facebook post that his party leader, Sybrand Buma, posted on 31 October 2016: "After the Ukraine referendum, the CDA said that you can't let millions of people go to the polls to follow the result with a 'yes', but not with a 'no'. Democracy is not a laboratory that you can experiment with without consequences. (...) Legally, the referendum is advisory, but democratically you cannot say that you put this result next to you. The CDA maintains that position." Did I understand correctly from Mr Knapen that this is not the position of the CDA group in the First Chamber and that it is clearly distancing itself in this sense from the CDA on the other side and from the party leader? That is, of course, the right of the CDA group, but I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u15	I would not accept most of Mr Apeldoorn's words in this way. It is a careful consideration, in which it is not simply "black" or "white," but in which you have to weigh a number of things against each other. In this house perhaps that is with the party that represents Mr Apeldoorn something else................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u16	Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u17	From Apeldoorn. Thank you, Madam President. Sorry. That may be different from Mr Van Apeldoorn's party, but we are making a stand-alone assessment here. We make it in the spirit and letter of our current party leader, who has great respect for the fact that the States-General consist of two houses and not one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u18	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u19	Finally. For the record: also the SP-group always comes to an independent consideration in this house and finds it a useful chambre de réflexion in that sense. That is also the right of the CDA Group; let there be no misunderstanding about that. I would just like to make it clear that the CDA Group, on this essential point, namely how to deal with the outcome of the referendum, deviates substantially from previously adopted CDA positions through the party leader. That's clear now. That's what I cared about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u20	The party leader of the CDA has been very clear about how the CDA would deal with the outcome of the referendum. The party leader said that ignoring the outcome of the referendum by politics will lead to a greater loss of confidence in politics and even more cynicism towards The Hague and Brussels. Does this have to do with the time lag between the CDA's ruling and the CDA's vote in the House of Representatives and now? Has that ruling gone over the expiry date, or has something happened in the intervening period led you to come to another consideration? The position of the CDA on this issue was expressed more clearly on the front page of the Volkskrant this morning than in Mr Knapen's contribution. De Volkskrant was already aware of what the vote of the CDA group would be like next week. I wonder if Mr Knapen could give a little more explanation of what happened in the intervening period, so that the statement by the CDA's political leader that it could lead to great cynicism in the electorate, is either dated or at least less important than Mr Knapen's new considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u21	Mr Koffeman is asking for something I have spoken about three quarters of my speech, namely a weighting of a number of arguments which could lead to support for this cabinet or which could lead to rejection of this proposal. In our group, they seem to ultimately lead to the support of a large majority for this bill. I can now repeat that, but that seems to me to be a repetition of moves. When it comes to the difference between my input and the Volkskrant, I am sorry for Mr Koffeman, but he has to do it with me here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u22	I understand that very well, but I would ask Mr Knapen to explain that he says that we should have a debate here, when the Volkskrant already knows a lot more about his considerations than we have been able to tell from his contribution. I have listened carefully and I am not asking for a repetition, but I am asking on what grounds he considers this to be more important than the statement of his political leader, who has said that you should take the electorate seriously, that you cannot deviate from that, in spirit. He has told us a number of things about what is going on in Ukraine, but we all know that once we have read the Volkskrant from earlier days. It's more about his consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u23	I cannot make it any different than this, but perhaps Mr Koffeman can help me by telling me in what way the Volkskrant has given him more insight into the life of the Christian-Democratic Appeal than he now suggests me to do. I do not think it was on the front page, but perhaps we have read another newspaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u24	I will give Mr Koffeman the opportunity to give that clarity once again, but then I will close the dialogue on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u25	This is a great tilting of the perspective, because I understand that Mr Knapen is suddenly asking for clarity from me, when I had asked him for clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u26	It runs sometimes... Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u27	I am interested in the fact that it is very interesting for two million Dutch, as he also mentioned, to know where the great swing is in the position of the CDA, other than that in the meantime a lot of water has gone through the sea and a lot has happened in Ukraine. It's still about the same treaty. Nothing has changed. His political leader said: if we say yes to this treaty, it will lead to great cynicism among many Dutch people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u28	I think now I understand better what Mr Koffeman means. I said that there are a number of arguments why you can do one or the other. I have indicated that, as far as we consider it, the First Chamber always makes its own assessment. That has nothing to do with what has happened or not; we always make that own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u29	That's not news, but thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u30	I give the floor to Mr Dankert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u31	Madam President. The subject of this afternoon's debate has been described rather cumbersomely: settlement of the entry into force of the law approving the association agreement with Ukraine. This expression is a good reflection of the difficult process that ultimately led to the present legislative proposal, which is based on the agreement reached by Prime Minister Rutte in the EU. It is therefore a good thing that the Prime Minister is taking part in this debate today. For D66, three points of reference have always been important in the discussion on the association agreement with Ukraine: firstly, the association agreement itself, secondly, the outcome of the Dutch referendum and thirdly, the international geopolitical context. D66 supports the Association Agreement, which, as it were, provides a blueprint for the political and economic reform process in Ukraine and its cooperation with the EU. In the political field, this blueprint focuses, among other things, on strengthening democracy and the rule of law, the cornerstone of Dutch foreign policy. In addition, the Agreement allows for closer economic relations. That too is important for the Netherlands, as a trading country. After all, Ukraine is a large country, with considerable economic potential. This will require a much stronger fight against corruption. Therefore, the objective of strengthening cooperation between Ukraine and the EU in this area will rightly be one of the priorities. In general you can say that, in my group's opinion, the agreement serves the Dutch interest and corresponds to the central values of our international attitude. However, the outcome of the consultative referendum was negative and forced reflection. For my group, this weighed heavily. From the outset, we have said that we will take the outcome of the referendum very seriously, even though the turnout was low at over 30% and it was a consultative referendum. In the search for a solution, two issues were at the heart of D66. Firstly, the concerns expressed in the referendum campaign had to be addressed. Secondly, the EU should not be played apart and Putin should not be given the opportunity to further destabilise Ukraine. In my group's view, there were two options after the referendum. The first and most obvious was that the government would file a repeal law and that it would then be considered how the relationship with Ukraine could be given substance in a different way, taking into account the electorate's feelings. However, the proposal was rejected in the Lower House. The other option was to address the electorate's underlying concerns in such a way that the Association Agreement could be ratified. In the end, the government has chosen this option; in itself, it is a legitimate choice in the opinion of my group. However, we are seriously critical of the slowness and long-term nature of the process. As the government, and in particular the Prime Minister, hardly stirred up in the referendum campaign to plead for a yes vote, it took more than six months for the government to start working for a solution. In the meantime, the consultative referendum has been over a year behind us. My group deeply regrets that the government has been passive for so long and has left the electorate in uncertainty for so long. Having said that, my group, taking all this into account, can finally agree to the proposal submitted by the government, because it addresses the main concerns that appeared to exist in the Dutch referendum campaign, while agreement has been reached on this proposal from the Netherlands in the European Union. In a substantive and non-binding manner, the concerns expressed in the campaign are addressed. A unanimous decision of the European Council, of Heads of State or Government, establishes a legally binding interpretation of the Association Agreement for the Union and its Member States on the subjects giving rise to such concerns. In concrete terms, the European Council states that the Association Agreement is not a stepping stone to membership of the European Union; that strengthening the rule of law will be a central element in the implementation of the Association Agreement, which is also important for the fight against corruption; that the Agreement does not require additional financial support to Ukraine and that it does not grant Ukrainian workers access to the European labour market or that there would be a collective security guarantee and a military cooperation obligation with Ukraine. On all these points, the agreement reached by the Prime Minister provides clarity. In addition, this decision of the European Council commits the EU Member States to exclude other broader interpretations on these issues. In my group's view, this does justice to the outcome of the referendum in an acceptable manner. In the discussion between the government and the House of Representatives, much attention has been paid to the legal link between the European Council's decision, as has just been mentioned in the discussion between Mr Apeldoorn and Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u32	Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u33	I thought I was staying in line with the other speakers, but no. From the discussion in the House of Representatives and the answers given by the government to the questions from both Chambers, I draw the following conclusions. First of all... The decision of the European Council is legally binding on the Member States of the European Union. And for future entrants, too, I would add, because it is part of the EU acquis. Second. The decision is strictly not legally binding on Ukraine, but in practice it is decisive for that country, in the government's choice of words. In this respect, it does not matter whether Ukraine is a party to the decision or not; the practical consequences also apply to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u34	Mr Van Apeldoorn, have you come this far?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u35	It strikes me that Mr O'Hagan is so easily dealing with the issue of the legally binding nature of the declaration. He clearly states, and rightly so, that the declaration is not binding on Ukraine, but that it does not make much difference in practice. International law is very clear about this. I mentioned international treaty law before. It is not legally binding on Ukraine, but he says that this is the case in practice. What does that tell you? What, for example, will prevent President Poroshenko from taking a step towards applying for EU membership at some point in time? There is nothing in the association agreement, but it will not stop Ukraine in any way. So how does it bind Kiev, Ukraine in practice? That is not clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u36	I quoted the government that uses the word "determinant." I think she's doing the right thing. Ukraine may apply for membership of the European Union. It has a right to do so. The question is how the European Union responds to this. For the European Union itself, a legally binding agreement has been reached which will not be the case for Ukraine's accession to the European Union. This will have consequences for Ukraine, which in itself can still apply, but will have to accept that the European Union will not act on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u37	In my view, the statement does not state that Ukraine will never be able to apply or become a member of the EU. It merely states that this agreement is not a step in the right direction, but these are two fundamentally different things. So the insert explains what it didn't say and what it still doesn't say, but that doesn't change the situation that Poroshenko, that Ukraine could make an application. In practice, therefore, it has no binding effect on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u38	Poroshenko can make that request, but the question is whether there will be agreement within the Union not to meet that request. Then it's over for Ukraine, too. The essential question is what the European Union is doing and not what Ukraine is doing. A binding provision has been agreed between the European Union and its Member States.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u39	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn. Moreover, I do not think that it makes sense to ask the same question for a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u40	I have another question. He is right to say that there is a statement in which the 28 Member States have agreed, but they have not agreed that Ukraine will never be able to make an application and they have not agreed that if it is there, then it will not be possible to respond positively. They have only agreed that this agreement is not an adaptation to membership, but that is a completely different matter. So it may well be that then a number of countries, such as Poland and other EU Eastern European countries, say: welcome, Ukraine, we welcome this step and we support it, despite this so-called legally binding declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u41	But you can always do that. That could have happened before the association agreement. It is true that this association agreement and even the European Neighbourhood Policy and the Eastern Partnership and all the other EU instruments were in fact aimed at preventing Ukraine from entering the path of membership of the European Union. Ukraine is being offered something as an alternative to a possible candidate status for membership of the European Union. It now has the Eastern Partnership in all its consequences, and that is the answer to a possible request from the Ukrainians to become a member of the European Union, but we can never forbid them from expressing that wish. What we can do is agree among ourselves that we will not meet this and that we will take a different path in the meantime, but not this one. Finally, I would like to make a few comments and a question about the geopolitical context in which the discussion on the association agreement takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u42	Perhaps Mr D66's political leader has said at the beginning of this very long process: I am quite prepared to believe the Prime Minister, but I would first like to see what changes are now being agreed with these European Heads of Government in the Treaty. We all know by now that there have been no changes to the Treaty at all. The question is, therefore, whether the D66 Group sees it as a problem that the Treaty has remained unchanged while it has been said that the European Heads of Government would be consulted in order to make such a change that it meets the people who said no in the referendum. D66 is a referendum par excellence. What does this do with D66, bearing in mind that nothing has changed, and your party leader was very curious about what would be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u43	As I said just now, it was our first preference that the government should withdraw the proposal and enter into consultation with the political parties, the EU and Ukraine on a possible alternative approach. That's tuned in the House of Representatives. Then you say: it won't be, so let's leave the further file and there's nothing more to do? No, we thought the file was far too important for that. Both for the economic and fundamental reasons that I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks, Ukraine is not just a country... and because of the geopolitical context in which all this takes place, for us, where the first option would not be, the second option was the way the government took under the leadership of the Prime Minister, namely working on an agreement which removes the concerns that exist in the Netherlands and which hinders the approval of the agreement. So that's what it's finally become. Now the question is what the quality of the result is. We think the quality of the result is sufficient. It is not perfect, it has taken too long and it may not be the most beautiful outcome in all respects, but if you look at the whole thing, it is an acceptable result. It's not a side issue we're talking about here either. We are talking about the future shape of Europe and the extent to which countries can still find their own place within Europe in relation to the large countries around it, which sometimes have their own ambitions. Ukraine is now in that barrage of different interests and ambitions. Let's help that country get a little control over itself and get back on its feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u44	Mr. Koffeman, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u45	Sure, sure. I am very curious to hear what my colleague thinks about the fact that the Dutch electorate did not vote 'no'. What does he think of this as a representative of the referendum party? Does he think that there has been enough response to that no vote?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u46	Like many colleagues, I have participated in the campaign and have participated in discussions on a regular basis. I have performed several times with Mr Van Apeldoorn, for example. Then you noticed in the discussions with the Chamber and also among yourselves that there were different views on what could be expected of this agreement and what problems would be addressed. Then you see a number of points, including the often cited argument that it would be a stepping stone to the European Union. It was also said that this opens up the labour market in Europe to workers from Ukraine who are already so many in Western Europe. So in that respect, I did not think it was a 100% answer but generally a sufficient response to the concerns that there were. Mr. Chairman. Let me make a final comment on the geopolitical context. Unlike in the referendum debate, the government now places a strong emphasis on this context, and rightly so in the opinion of my group. Europe's security situation has become increasingly uncertain and unstable in recent years. Mr Knapen has already spoken about this. The question of how Ukraine should position itself internationally in this situation must, in my group's view, be the starting point that it is not a question of imposing a choice between Moscow and Brussels. The point is that Ukraine, as an independent country, must be able to make its own choice about the international position and orientation. The problem is that Putin is trying to prevent this. In this context, the comments made by Prime Minister Rutte in the debate in the House of Representatives on Ukraine's position at international level and in relations with Russia are not without importance. What struck me was that he said that all along he would oppose Ukrainian membership of the Union because Ukraine should be a country that has a good relationship with both Europe and Russia, given its historical links and geographical location. That's a lot to say. A country close to Russia that has historical ties with Russia will always be excluded from membership of the European Union. Clearly, such a country should form a buffer zone between the EU and Russia. That seems to me to be a rather uncomfortable position. For the sake of clarity, however, the fact that a country wishes to join the EU is not enough, in my group's view, to meet that country's desire, because that is what the European Union itself determines on the basis of the criteria that apply to it. It is clear that Ukraine does not meet this requirement. I was wondering what the greater and more far-reaching significance of the Prime Minister's remark was. Was this an improvisation of the Prime Minister or was the Ruttedoctrine introduced here, which will also apply to other countries? My group has already asked this question in writing, but it was not answered at that time. I therefore repeat the question now, in the hope and expectation that an answer will now be given. I hear the Minister say yes. Thank you! And then there is the question of how the countries between Russia and Europe feel. As far as Ukraine is concerned, such a concept is outdated. Ukraine is a kind of buffer zone between East and West, between Russia and the European Union. Where many Ukrainians in the past had a kind of middle position of their country between Europe and Russia in mind, Russian intervention in Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea have led to a growing Ukrainian national sense of identity, apart from Russia and open to the West. In that respect Putin has overplayed his hand: won Crimea, but lost Ukraine. On the other hand, non-ratification by the Netherlands of the Moscow Association Agreement would play a role and lead to further destabilisation at Europe's borders, as the government rightly states in the further reply. One more reason why we should vote in favour of the legislative proposal to regulate the entry into force of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. It has been almost two years since we dealt with the original bill for the adoption of this treaty in this Chamber. Since then, we have had a consultative ruling from the Dutch people on the basis of the referendum law on 6 April 2016. In doing so, a clear majority of voters opposed the Treaty. It is appropriate to note that due to the low turnout of only 32%, this majority represented only about 20% of the voters. Nevertheless, the government - Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Koenders first - tried to address the concerns that led to the rejection of the Treaty at European level in the consultative referendum. My group recognizes that the government has had to find a balance between addressing these concerns on the one hand and adopting the law earlier by the States-General and ratifying it by all the other contracting parties on the other. My group supports the solution found by the government through the additional joint decision of the 28 EU Member States to clarify the Convention. Of course, in addition to the written consultation, there are still some comments to make and questions to ask. The government has chosen the form of a decision by the Heads of State or Government meeting within the European Council. That is a decision of an intergovernmental nature. Otherwise, if one wishes to go a step further, a decision of the European Council as an institution of the European Union in accordance with Article 15 of the Treaty on European Union is a decision of the European Council. Now that the EU, as an institution alongside the Member States, will also be party to the Treaty, my group would like to hear a clarification from the Prime Minister. Why is it that only this legal form has been chosen and not a decision of the European Council as such? So why didn't an intergovernmental and a European decision be chosen? A accompanying decision of the European Council itself is a little more legally important in any proceedings before the Court of Justice of the EU. We do not know from the many preparatory documents what the European Commission's view of this chosen form and the content of the decision is. I am sure that this will be positive and positive, but it is good to hear from the Ministers. We have already had a detailed exchange of views in writing on whether a chance of a legal beauty prize could not have been significantly greater if an additional declaration or agreement to the Convention itself had been concluded with all the contracting parties, i.e. with Ukraine as a co-signed party. I am not going to repeat that in this debate, even because Ukraine itself has agreed to this and our government has had to make every effort to do justice to the outcome of the referendum. Understandably, the achievement of a beauty prize in the land of Hugo de Groot has become somewhat out of sight, and so they are. However, the government seems to want to reiterate with a certain eagerness that this decision is a "powerful instrument of international law." That is stated in the explanatory memorandum and repeatedly in the response. My question is on which the government bases that statement and why it considers it so important, since it also states that it is not an amendment or amendment to the Treaty but merely a further common explanation on the part of the 28 Member States. Following the Council of State, there seems to be some uncertainty among the government about the precise legal status of the President of Ukraine's press statement on 15 December that he welcomes the joint EU decision and also sees it as a necessary step towards the entry into force of the Association Agreement. At first glance, this could mean that Ukraine, as a party to the treaty, accepts the interpretation laid down in the EU decision and is also legally bound by the interpretation of the Treaty, as the 28 Heads of State or Government have given it, especially now that this press statement comes from the mouth of the Head of State. The legal form of unilateral binding of a state on the basis of a ruling by a head of state or minister is no stranger to international legal relations. A famous example is the Norwegian Minister Ihlen's statement in 1919 that Greenland fell under the sovereignty of Denmark, which Denmark was then able to successfully invoke. Later on, the new French President Giscard d'Estaing's statement in 1974 was that France would refrain from further submarine tests in the Pacific waters near Australia and New Zealand. These last countries had climbed high on top of that. They even brought France before the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u48	Mr Schrijver now cites examples of quite concrete commitments made by Heads of Government. It was a question of abandoning further tests and so on. Here we are talking about a press statement welcoming the decision. Doesn't Mr. Writer think that's a little vaguer? Shouldn't there be more clarity before you can just say that this is also an explicit agreement with the content of that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u49	No matter is, of course, the same, I would like to say to Mrs Strik, but I would point out that the Ukrainian Government had known for a few days about the draft declaration. I would also mention the fact that he welcomed this immediately following the adoption of the decision. That is something Mr Van Apeldoorn had not mentioned. Furthermore, the President of Ukraine added that he saw it as a necessary step for the entry into force of the Association Agreement. That in itself creates a legitimate expectation that you can take that seriously. And he didn't speak as Mr. Poroshenko, but as head of state. I do not want to say that this is the same as when he is a co-signed party, but this statement is indeed part of the whole context in which this treaty was concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u50	That he considered it a necessary step for entry into force, I actually regard it more as a kind of observation. After all, he also knew what the dilemma was and that the Dutch government wanted something. That's not the same as consent. But I understand from Mr Schrijver's words that he too would have preferred that Ukraine had actually co-signed the decision and that it would have made it much stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u51	Yes, Mrs. Strik understood that correctly. In view of the enormous efforts made by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I would also like to award them a beauty prize. But I have already concluded a few strict points that I do not see any reason for such a nomination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u52	Mr Schrijver and I agree that it does not deserve a beauty prize. It has already been recalled that Mr. Schrijver is an international law expert, he is a professor of international law and has a lot of understanding about these matters. He just accused me, or just pointed out to me, that I did not mention President Poroshenko's press statement. But does Mr Schrijver, as an international law expert and professor of international law, seriously believe that this press statement is in any way comparable to Ukraine's legally binding consent? What is the value of Mr Poroshenko saying: yes, it is a necessary step? Politically, of course, it was a necessary step, but we do agree that it is purely legal as such, I am speaking to Mr Schrijver, who has no value whatsoever that Mr Poroshenko has made these statements through the press?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u53	I think we differ on that. I am not saying that it is the same as a legal agreement, but it is an agreement at a very crucial time, namely the morning after the adoption of the joint decision of the Prime Ministers and the Heads of State meeting within the European Council. As such, it is part of the whole conglomerate of documents that plays a role in the interpretation of a treaty. This concerns not only the wording of the Convention itself, but also the practice of the parties involved, the purpose and the circumstances of the conclusion of the Convention. Mr Van Apeldoorn mentioned earlier that he is familiar with the rules of treaty interpretation as laid down in Articles 31 and 32 of the Vienna Convention. I am sure he has also been able to see that it is not just the text of a treaty, but also the whole context and the practice surrounding it. I also found it extremely interesting to hear that Mr Van Apendoorn is talking about an 'inlay sheet'. In fact, he says that this additional interpretation of the 28 Member States is actually an inherent part of the Treaty. Otherwise, he wouldn't have called it an inlay sheet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u54	That's a good one. We are talking about an inlay sheet which once again states what is not in the Treaty, and in the meantime, no letter is being changed to the Treaty. I think we agree on that. I note that Mr Schrijver, on behalf of the PvdA Group, states that Ukraine has agreed to this declaration. That's news to me; that's news. Maybe I'll come back to that later. My question to Mr Schrijver is: how exactly does this statement respond to the concerns of the no-voters? Because I haven't actually heard him say much about that. Have these concerns been effectively removed because Mr Poroshenko gave this press statement, even though no letter has been amended to the Treaty itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u55	Mr Van Apeldoorn certainly has a point there, so I do not need to repeat that. But as has also been pointed out in his questions to the government, which I have greatly appreciated, there were a number of points. Among other things, it was a question of whether or not this is a stepping stone to EU membership. No, says the statement, because there is nothing about it in the Treaty, and we do not intend to do that either. The issue of combating corruption has been put high on the agenda. I admit that it might have been a little clearer in the first articles of the Treaty, but now the European Union has emphasised how important that is. I will come back later to talk about military cooperation. The declaration states that the association agreement does not imply free movement of workers. It says that we are all committed to the constitutional development of Ukraine, in the hope that the transition to a free market economy and democracy will be made easier. In short, these are a very important number of points which led to a negative verdict in the referendum. I am pleased that the government has been able to address it in this way. Mr President, I will continue my speech now that I see that Mr Van Apeldoorn is convinced. From the fascinating precedents of Norwegian Minister Ihlen and French President Giscard d'Estaing, you can at least see that it is not so black and white, either binding or non-binding, and that you can also sit in a grey zone between them. One thing is certain: this is a declaration, in conjunction with the decision of the European Union, which can certainly play a key role in the future interpretation of this association agreement. In doing so, I hope that both the peace of mind of the outgoing cabinet and those of certain political groups have done well. My group is always happy to contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u56	Very briefly, if possible, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u57	Yes, but this was Mr. Writer's entrapment. I have two points on whether or not the concerns of the people and the no-voters are addressed. There would be fear among the population, and it is undoubtedly alive that Ukraine could become a member of the European Union at some point. I have already said in the debate with Mr Dankert: there is nothing that prevents Ukraine from making an application. Contrary to what Mr van den Broek claimed, the declaration does not make a binding commitment that such an application, as Ukraine does, will be refused. Once again, Ukraine can do that; there is nothing about that in the association agreement. In what way is this concern addressed by the electorate? My second point concerns corruption. A lot of people are right to worry about that. The declaration states that the fight against corruption is a key issue, but if you look at it, Article 1, where the main points are mentioned, does not mention the issue of combating corruption. That treaty is fully valid. How does the Council's statement address that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u58	As I said, we should have put that point at the forefront of the treaty with the wisdom of perhaps now. But the treaty has 400 articles. Some of these articles are dedicated to the fight against corruption, but there are a large number of other articles that are directly and sometimes indirectly relevant. These articles are about building the rule of law, in particular the separation of powers, police training and institutional capacity building. For example, I can mention a lot of other examples of articles that are directly or indirectly very important in the fight against corruption. It is precisely these articles that have not yet entered into force, partly because of the efforts of the Netherlands. Only commercial goods can enter into force because it is an exclusive competence of the European Union. Those who agree with me that the fight against corruption is extremely important must, like a hare, ensure that this treaty can enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u59	Mr Schrijver has just said that, with the wisdom of today, it would have been better if the fight against corruption had taken a central place in the Treaty, but would it not have been better if, instead of adding an insert, the treaty had actually changed on that essential point? By the way, I keep calling it an insert. It is not part of the treaty, because it does not change the treaty in any way. Would it not have been better to reject or withdraw the treaty in its present form, and then to come up with a treaty in which the fight against corruption, which is also crucial from the point of view of Mr Schrijver, had taken a central place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u60	That's what you're gonna try again to get a legal beauty prize. But we also know that this is a long exercise ahead of it. Then we'll be a decade away. In view of the core, which Mr Knapen and Mr Oppenheim have just referred to, it is a question of peace and stability in Europe in general and of Ukraine's constitutional development in particular, I would find it irresponsible to wait so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u61	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn. I'm asking you to be very brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u62	Very briefly and finally on this point: if all parties consider the issue of combating corruption to be so important and if President Poroshenko has also agreed to it by means of a press conference, even though he himself is now accused of corruption, why has Mr Poroshenko not co-signed the declaration? Then the agreement would have been really clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u63	This was, of course, discussed in detail in the written process. I myself have put a few questions to the Prime Minister about this. Let me not try to answer on his behalf, because I think he's in a much better position than I am to do that. Mr. Chairman. May I assume and hope that this is the last debate we have on this agreement in this House? Then I must say that my group does not yet understand the additional value of the national declaration which the Netherlands, in addition to the decision of the EU Member States and the Poroshenko Declaration, intends to deposit with Article 10 of the Association Agreement on military cooperation. To my best knowledge, the text of that statement is still not available, at least not publicly and not for us as Members of Parliament. As the Government itself writes in the reply, Article 10 of the Association Agreement does not contain a military assistance obligation or a collective security guarantee à la Article 5 of the NATO Treaty. Individual EU Member States, including the Netherlands, cannot therefore be required to provide military support or cooperation with Ukraine within the framework of the Common Security and Defence Policy, either in terms of equipment, personnel and expertise or in the financial sense. However, the Netherlands relies on such a declaration in the Act of Approval which states that Article 10 does not create any obligation for the Netherlands to participate in military cooperation. I ask the Ministers if they can explain what is going to be in this declaration again, we still do not have the text which is not already in the Association Agreement and the decision of the European Council. I ask, after all that has already happened, what purpose is served by this remarkable unilateral instrument. Finally. My group is the first to admit that the importance of our legal questions pales in the great importance of the entry into force of the Treaty. In this respect, Mr Knapen's words were taken from my heart. The entry into force of this Convention is of great importance for Ukraine and stability in Europe. The signing took place in 2014. In 2016, all the other EU Member States had completed their ratification procedure. My group appreciates the way in which Prime Minister Rutte and Minister Koenders not only went to Brussels with a big stone, but also for months to find a solution that reflects the negative outcome of the consultative referendum. We believe that this has been done in an appropriate way. The "obligatory review" contained in the referendum law has been fully respected. Now is the time to implement whatever the law says, namely that "the primacy of the representative system is maintained" in the decision-making process, especially now that it is a purely consultative and non-decisive referendum and that it is an opinion of only about 20% of voters. Major political interests are at stake. I'll name four. First of all, peace and stability in Europe in general. In addition, the stability of Ukraine, which has already been so tested with the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia and the military conflict in eastern Ukraine. Subsequently, Ukraine's economic and legal development. And last but not least, the reputation of the Netherlands as a reliable treaty partner and EU Member State. For further arguments, I refer to the letter of the International Affairs Advisory Council of December 2016, entitled The need for ratification. Furthermore, many reports and reports, including from The Economist Intelligence Unit and the World Bank, show that the situation in Ukraine is gradually improving and that at least the country is slowly climbing up from the downward spiral. It is now important for the Netherlands to make a decision and to join the Union and all the other Member States to enter into this association with Ukraine. It is now up to President Putin not to play into the hands of his efforts to keep Ukraine under control. My group looks forward with interest to the reaction of the Prime Minister and his fellow Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u64	Mr. Chairman. A word in advance about my involvement with Ukraine, in addition to my resume. I was once a businessman in the agricultural sector. I quit ten years ago. The latter, for example, is in a state of abolition, a long procedure and is in a fiscal sleep for so long, as it is called. In other words, I have no business interests. If it is a bit lucky, today we are experiencing the conclusion of a discussion which has been going on for, in fact, far too long. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. This would also put an end to the entry of the Netherlands into the European Union. On this occasion, I would like to address a number of aspects of this discussion. It is, of course, about the consultative referendum and its aftermath, but I would also like to comment on the association agreement itself, including the question of how to cooperate with Ukraine within and outside the behavioural context. This in turn leads to conclusions on this legislative proposal. The Ukraine referendum could be organised on the basis of the law governing the consultative referendum. The VVD was not in favour of this law, nor of its use in international treaties. But let me now focus on the result of the first attempt. Ideally, this referendum should have made a significant contribution to the democratic decision-making of the Treaty. Decision-making by Parliament on a proposal from the cabinet. Looking back on the actual course of events, with the focus being on which council this referendum has produced, the VVD Group has only a sense of disappointment. What the whole spectacle has produced is little more than a black hole. No contribution whatsoever to a substantive exchange of views, no directional recommendations to government and parliament and a completely unclear picture of what to do with the association agreement. The referendum tried to reduce an extremely complicated issue to a simple for or against. Neither the initiators nor the participants, whether subsidised or not, in the debate have even had the beginning of a substantive discussion on the text of the Treaty. A third of the population voted against by a majority. But with what? Definitely unclear. You expect assistance from an advisory ruling in the decision-making process. However, much concrete advice has not come out. The no was unmistakably a protest vote, but a vote against what? Against the EU, against the cabinet, against the treaty? In the latter case: against which part? Against relations with Ukraine? Against the country's accession to the European Union? But such accession is not the subject of the association agreement. In fact, precisely because there is no accession, the Convention is the most appropriate form of cooperation. It was bizarre that even initiators expressed hardly any interest in the specific subject matter. The VVD Group has therefore not been able to derive any directional feeling from the majority statement. The fact that some groups in the House of Representatives have interpreted the referendum as binding is something I consider regrettable. But binding on what? It's a mystery to me again. So far it is no, but then there is a follow-up question: What did the initiators and the no-voters want? What did they say to this no? Again, a lack of clarity. What has lingered, and what keeps popping up in the form of opinions, is something you might call myth formation. For example, that the Dutch people would have spoken out clearly. Apart from the qualification of 'people', it seems to me that a minority of the population has expressed itself extremely unclearly. The fact that this is largely due to the instrument used may explain the necessary, but if I had been the initiator of this referendum, I would have left a desperate failure complex in progress. For Parliament, therefore, today's Senate, there is only one way to conduct the debate and take responsibility for the decision-making process. This is in the light of the government's activities in response to the outcome of the referendum. Because in the meantime, the necessary has happened. The VVD Group believes that the government has made the right choice in dealing with the outcome. Now that the referendum has taken place, take the result as seriously as possible. Please note that there is obviously a great deal of confusion and uncertainty in our country on the subject at hand. Report this to the Contracting Parties and provide them with as much clarity as possible on the content and intentions of the Association Agreement. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the fact that the Member States and Ukraine have given this room and that this has led to an addendum confirming and clarifying what this treaty is and above all not about. As far as the VVD Group is concerned, therefore, I would like to congratulate the cabinet. It may be that the opponents of the Treaty are disappointed with the way things are going, but I repeat that the referendum did not produce much, and it certainly did not succeed in setting the cabinet on an alternative course. The interpretations of their own opponents of the Treaty were sometimes somewhat clearer, but they did come up with a completely unclear course of action. Perhaps the government can explain how this has all happened. I'd like to wait and see. It is clear that many Ukraine do not want to join the EU as a full Member State. The VVD Group, in favour of the association agreement and intensive cooperation with that country, is of the same opinion. Ukraine is still miles away from even a protocol of accession. I would like to stress that this is hardly to be blamed on the country. The major problems facing Ukraine have a lot to do with the country's special history. They have even more to do with the country's communist past. The communist regime has not only left the country in a totally dislocated state, it has also created a homo sovietist that they and we are far from getting rid of. This is no different in many other former Soviet republics. But then there is the good news: in Ukraine, at least, there is the even tragically demonstrated will to reform. A look back at the legacy of communism. This has had a huge impact on the inhabitants of the former Soviet Union. In a way, you can even interpret this legacy as being anthropological: it seems as if the human being has been modified there. Anyone who is active in the former Soviet states and has experienced the system from within can confirm how disastrously the Soviet Union and communist ideology have worked on man. Integration into the western democratic legal order and market organisation is therefore a long-term issue. The population will have to adapt to this order, which goes far beyond concluding agreements. The association agreement we are discussing here is just like that. Ukraine will have to leave the entire Soviet culture behind, which requires intensive support from the forces that wanted to reform this culture. Anyone who looks at developments in Russia will have to acknowledge that there are hardly any attempts to shake off the past. In this context, developments in Ukraine are encouraging and it is necessary to implement the content of the association agreement in a rigorous manner. In particular, the Treaty should be seen as an investment in new generations. They will have to be helped to implement the necessary reforms, not only at institutional level, but also in culture, morality and whatnot. Building the rule of law, including a well-functioning representative democracy, is an essential part of this. A properly functioning legal system and the fight against corruption is another challenge. What is also needed is the construction of a modern education system. There are plenty of initiatives under way in Ukraine. A new generation is moving. Of this, the revolution that will go into history as the Maidan Revolution is a dramatic proof. This new generation must be supported. This is also in favour of Europe as a whole. Destabilizing such a large and geopolitically important country is something Putin is working on, but it is extremely dangerous. Those who turn their backs on this country will not only become Putin's accomplice, but also the corrupt Soviet elite, a dangerous gang that still occupies crucial positions. It is also important that this country finds its position in the geopolitical force field. This also means building a normal relationship with large neighbour Russia. Now this neighbor is doing everything possible to ruin relations with Ukraine, as with so many other neighbouring states. I participate intensively in debates in the country. I regularly told Ukrainians to hate Putin, but please do not hate the Russians. They are also victims of a new form of despotia, that of a state power in the service of rover capitalism. Normalized geopolitical relations mean that something other than quasi-colonial are subjected to the Russian sphere of influence. You build relationships from your own sovereignty. One thing Putin has managed to do with his aggression in the meantime, and I would like to say to him that I am one of our fellow Members: from an area that until recently could hardly be called an integrated country to be a nation. Ukraine literally means "at the border." For centuries this country was a sort of buffer between the Tsarist Russia and the Ottoman Empire. In any case, the recent Russian attempts to disrupt the country have led to a growing sense of national solidarity. That basis is a tough condition for constitutional reform. The EU must be closely associated with this country. Of course there is already a lot going on, but if it is successful today, the Netherlands will also be able to join the treaty. Ukraine has a huge potential. The country can become an agricultural superpower. This will also benefit the other agricultural superpower, the Netherlands. We are therefore particularly interested in this agreement. This is certainly not just about trade. No stable economy and no country with a future without a functioning democratic rule of law. Despite the frustrating effect our referendum had on the country, the Netherlands is still a highly valued partner. This proves the intensive contacts that have been built between themselves. In addition to the compliments I have already sent to the government, I have a few final questions. Can the government provide any insight into the activities being developed at government level to achieve productive cooperation with Ukraine? Can it also be made clear what support is being given to private initiative in this respect? Is the government prepared to intensify this if demand develops? The VVD Group agrees with this bill and is happy to wait for our questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. The debate on the Ukraine Treaty looks like borscht. That famous Russian soup from Ukraine. Characteristic of that soup is the large number of sturdy ingredients, with lots of salt and pepper. Just like this debate: geopolitical ingredients, a splash of Brussels, the savoury tsarism of Putin and a spicy referendum. Enough ingredients for a complicated yet nutritious meal. A good neighbor is better than a distant friend. This is certainly true in geopolitical terms, an area where infectious idealism must always be tempered by sober realism. From this point of view, it is understandable that the EU is committed to deepening cooperation with its eastern neighbours, with the aim of contributing to stability and predictability in that region. In view of all the fireplaces facing Europe, this is not an unnecessary luxury, but an understandable self-interest. Ukraine also rightly belongs to one of those neighbouring countries with which cooperation is sought. In the meantime, it's listening closely. Ukraine is not Switzerland. Ukraine is a precarious transition area between the West and Russia. In addition, Ukraine has traditionally belonged to the Russian sphere of influence, to the Russian safety belt. With that, the West, for peace, will have to count. It is therefore not wise to leave Ukraine militaryly in the western camp or to make Ukraine a member of the EU. These are unnecessary provocations by Russia, not in the interests of the EU or Ukraine itself. After all, Ukraine itself is a divided house: one part is strongly oriented towards the West, another part is oriented towards Russia. It is very important that Ukraine can play a bridge between east and west. I speak consciously of a bridge function, not a buffer zone. I do not think that the latter term is appropriate: as if Ukraine is only useful to take the first blows. It is precisely in the light of what this region has suffered from destruction from both the West and the East in the last century that this is an unfortunate term. Ukraine must be able to play a bridge role and be able to build stable relations with both the West and Russia. Does the government share this approach and is the Netherlands prepared to actively promote this through the EU? After all, this will offer Ukraine, the EU and Russia the most comfort. Therefore, no EU or NATO membership for Ukraine, but good relations. Working on a stable relationship without moving in together. How do you do that? You can arrange this through a cooperation agreement, an association agreement, as it is on the table. A treaty of primary economic nature but also seeks to provide a workable form of EU-Ukraine relations. A majority of Parliament, including SGP, supported this substantive route. How beneficial it would be to make a point here. Unfortunately, that is not possible, because a referendum followed. That referendum was not only about a difficult geopolitical issue, but also about a treaty concluded not only by the Netherlands but by the whole of the EU. The citizen had to say yes or no to international agreements which are partly within and partly outside the Dutch jurisdiction. An advisory referendum in the context of a representative democracy is already a thing, but in such an international constellation it borders on insanity. The course of the referendum has also shown this. The referendum turned out to be easily influenced by people who used the issue of Ukraine only for their own political agenda. Meanwhile, the taxpayer was allowed to take the fall for printed toilet rolls. Boy, did this referendum bring politics close to the citizen! Fortunately, there seems to be a turnaround in thinking about referenda. The association of D66 with its crown jewels offers hope for the formation discussions. In addition, it has been wrongly suggested and made clear that the Treaty is a stepping stone to EU membership, would offer a collective security guarantee, etc. It is a good thing that the cabinet has clarified this issue by means of a legally binding interpretation of the Treaty. The result of the referendum must be taken seriously. At the same time, there is no doubt that the referendum held does not relieve Parliament of its constitutional responsibility for the decision to be taken. We are not talking about a binding referendum, but about an advisory referendum. It would be constitutional to turn the referendum into a decisive referendum. The Eerste Kamer is also held to an independent, substantive consideration. In itself, the SGP can justify the conclusion of the Association Agreement with Ukraine, precisely as an alternative to EU membership. Non-ratification, on the other hand, means playing into Putin's power aspirations. It displays division within the EU and thereby promotes brutal Russian interference in Ukraine. You don't have to be a europhile to avoid this. Moreover, I refer to the interests of the Ukrainians themselves. Ukraine, as a sovereign state, has itself chosen this treaty. The Treaty encourages the strengthening of the democratic state of law, the strengthening of the judicial sector and the fight against corruption. That is the legitimate perspective on which many Ukrainians hope. I would also mention the compelling plea made by representatives of religious minorities in Ukraine in the Upper Chamber. Their interests weigh with the SGP. Will the Minister indicate how he can make concrete use of the treaty to improve the position of Jewish, Christian and other religious minorities? One thing is incredibly troubling the SGP and gives me as a spokesman unease and discomfort. With the ratification of the Treaty, the cabinet is promoting the idea of many that the European train is in any case pervasive, no matter what society says about it. Does not ignoring or insufficiently accepting the 'no' vote, such as a part of society experiencing it, undermine the acceptance of European cooperation in a dangerous way, especially since this agreement has a rather ambitious character and is influenced by the well-known Brussels rhetoric? Would it not have decorated the EU if it had shown greater restraint towards Ukraine's bridge country? I must say that successive Cabinets have given a great deal of reason for the widespread scepticism about the EU by constantly agreeing to further transfer of national powers. I also refer to the negative attitude of the cabinet towards the Van der Staaij initiative proposal, which was held in this Chamber, which requires two thirds of a majority in the transfer of powers to the EU, but also in the accession of new Member States, such as Ukraine or Turkey. Wouldn't the cabinet have been much stronger in all the fuss around the Ukraine referendum if it had shown a constructive attitude towards this initiative? Would it not have been very helpful - in response to concerns about possible EU membership of Ukraine - if the government had said that at least two thirds of the population would have been needed for this? What is the government doing, in concrete terms, to address the legitimate concern about further Europeanisation? What plans does the Prime Minister have to use the Brexit to reorganise and reduce the EU building? When talking about profound, complex geopolitical developments, for example between east and west, you experience your own nullity very strongly. I find it a very relaxed and joyful thought that the situation in the world eventually rests in the firm hand of God.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. On 7 July 2015, the First Chamber approved by majority with association agreements between the EU and Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine. All three are Eastern partners of the European Union. My group also agreed, by the way, without taking part in the debate. The agreement with Ukraine was given the most attention in the debate at the time. This had everything to do with the role that the agreement had played in the change of power a year earlier and the shifting relations in the region, partly due to the annexation of Crimea by Russia. The relationship with Europe was and is of great importance for reformists in Ukraine and, in view of the Russian threat, of particular value. Moreover, a partnership agreement with Ukraine already existed in 1994. The association agreements are part of the European neighbourhood policy and not part of the possible accession to the European Union. That was explained in this Chamber by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in July 2015. The fact that the agreement speaks of political association should not create suspicion. Not in itself, because the concept refers to substantive cooperation and not to an upcoming membership, but also because the agreements with Moldova and Georgia use the same terminology. In these cases, it did not give rise to a discussion on a possible membership. The association agreement with Ukraine has become the subject of a national political debate in our country and has raised fears that the EU would be in the process of further enlargement to the south-east. It is true that this association agreement is more than just a trade agreement, although it is clear that there is a strong emphasis on it. The political components see the promotion of the rule of law and democracy, the integration of Ukraine into more European political-cultural standards and standards. The country can only benefit from that. That has just been explained by Mr Schaap. The Association Treaty provides Ukraine with support in the situation where it is threatened as a sovereign country by Russia's influence in the region. The annexation of Crimea has made the relationship with Moscow permanently different and in all appearance irreversible. For my group, it is important for the agreement to help Ukraine in its own development. New generations of Ukrainians look forward to another Ukraine, to a country that is developing economically with the enormous potential it possesses, a country where democracy functions properly, a country that overcomes practices of corruption and, after it has detached itself from the Soviet Union's context, can join internationally in the circle of well-functioning states. The Association Treaty gives important European support to these developments. It underlines that Ukraine as a sovereign state is free to make its own choices and sends an important message. For my group, these were important considerations at the time, but also now. The question is whether we are giving political support to important democratic developments in a large country directly adjacent to the European Union. In the Netherlands, the association agreement was submitted to the public by means of an advisory referendum in accordance with the rules of the adopted initiative law. The fact that this would be the subject of the first referendum caused some concern, but it has come and we now know that people have participated in it with different motives. The referendum resulted in a no vote, after which it was up to the cabinet to interpret and act on the result. This could be done either by repealing the law or by making further arrangements regarding its entry into force under Article 11 of the referendum law. In my group's view, the repeal of the law would not have been appropriate given the international importance of this agreement. The Netherlands would then block the entry into force of an agreement involving all Member States. The question has rightly been asked whether international treaties should not be excluded from a referendum because, as the AIV has also stated, a treaty concluded with several partners is not a "free subject." The cabinet has rightly taken up the scope for further settlement of the entry into force and has tried to honour the objections to the agreement that have been raised. This has been done with a declaration which gives an interpretation of the Convention and which is legally binding. The Member States are expressing their views on how they see the agreement with Ukraine and how they will act on it. It's too thin and too little to say that this is an empty explanation. I liked the find "inlay sheet" very much. It belongs and is substantial, because this declaration will have to be applied in the Association Council and the other consultative structures that will be set up. The fact that the cabinet has acted and has been able to obtain this further statement deserves to be appreciated. The major objections expressed in the 'no' vote were addressed and discussed with the European partners. All this has led to a binding interpretation of the agreement. We can find this much or little, but it is a new result which is now being presented to the States-General and which calls for parliamentary assessment. Our view of the importance of the association agreement has not changed. I've just explained that. The consultative referendum was taken seriously by the government, as was indicated immediately after the results were obtained. Indeed, the agreement was not simply ratified, but provided for a further and binding explanation by the European governments. This has met the part of the population that came up to make a no. Now that the cabinet has returned from Brussels with this result, there is a new moment in the Chambers to make a final weighing-off on its own responsibility. For my group, that final weighting is no different than in July 2015. I know that the discussions raised the question of the significance and weight of a referendum statement such as this. Apart from the desirability of this instrument of popular consultation, on which there would be much to say after this experience and on which we have already heard some filippicas in this House this afternoon, I think it is important that we continue to communicate that an advisory referendum is not binding and that, in a parliamentary system, the position and responsibility of representatives of the people should remain fully intact. For my group, this is a matter of constitutional purity. The final weighing should take place in Parliament, and we want to highlight this very clearly on this day. Our group supports the legislative proposal that regulates the entry into force. The questions we still have relate to the meaning and scope of the declaration by the European Heads of Government. We do not have to talk about the association agreement itself, because that was already accepted on 7 July 2015, also by my group. The declaration obliges the Dutch Government to ensure that this interpretation is maintained, including in all the gremina that will still be set up. We would like to hear an explanation from the Prime Minister. It is now clear that the agreement is already being applied on a provisional basis pending its full acceptance. To this end, the European Union also has independent competence. We would like to hear from the Foreign Minister a state of affairs on this matter. He stated in a reply to the Second Chamber that the articles on the political objectives of the Association Agreement could also fall within this scope of provisional application. My group likes to get an idea of what this means. Considering everything, my group will support this law, which will also allow the Act of 8 July 2015 on the Association Agreement to enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u67	Mr. Chairman. As the local billiard association No Keus makes minutes of its members' meeting, the European Council also makes minutes of its meeting. Similarly, on 15 December 2016, 28 Heads of State met in this Council to talk about the Dutch signature still lacking under the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement. This was, of course, recorded in the Minutes. They were then renamed into a decision and voilà: Prime Minister Rutte had his solution, with a legally binding nature, which makes all the concerns expressed in the social debate disappear like snow before the sun. The decision was a repetition of some of the points contained in the Association Agreement or not. In particular, we should not think that there has been a vote or that something has been signed. That is not necessary either, because, as the counsellor of the Advisory Council points out, the decision does not alter the content of the agreement, nor does it constitute a reservation on the agreement. So there's nothing to sign. The presence of Ukrainian President Poroshenko was therefore not necessary, the king or chocolate could just stay home. In short: Rutte presents both Chambers and the Dutch people with a fake solution. With this shameless display, the Prime Minister is trying to spare the cabbage and the goat. There must be ratification, but not too soon, only after the elections. After the elections, it must be rushed by the Senate, so that this very unpleasant affair in the coalition negotiations is quickly off the table. A play had to be staged in order to spawn the Eurosceptic voters who had given their no-vote with the nasty referendum. In particular, the parties rolled over to convey the message that the outcome of the referendum should be respected. But respect can manifest itself in many forms. Director Rutte indicated that ratification couldn't go on. The doers GroenLinks and D66 also played their part. GroenLinks indicated that he would not support the cabinet on Ukraine. D66 did not rule out support in advance, but wanted to see a plan first. The eurofele CDA came with the next bouncer. The CDA considers that there is no other way than to repeal the Act of Approval. How can the CDA, with a great love for the European Union, say such a thing? Rutte got so confused by this lifelike show that he was going to have a blurry story about a vacuum bomb. The citizens who see this farce are not crazy. They are well aware that the agreement is indeed a stepping stone to EU membership and that most politicians in the next company are going to tap out of a different box. Meanwhile, Poroshenko continued to proclaim that his country would of course become a member of the EU and that it would not be long before Ukraine met the criteria for membership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u68	It is quite a harsh claim that this association agreement is a step towards full membership of the European Union. On what does Mrs Van de Klashorst base this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u69	I shall come back to that later in my speech. If I have not answered the question sufficiently to your liking, you can come back to it. This is because otherwise I walk out with my own text. Meanwhile, Poroshenko continued to proclaim that his country would of course become a member of the EU and that it would not be long before Ukraine met the criteria for membership. He was supported in this by a benevolent, well-paid European Parliament which had adopted a resolution. This resolution states that EU membership should be possible for Ukraine in the long term. Technically, any European State which supports and is able to promote the fundamental principles of the European Union may apply for EU membership on the basis of Article 49 of the EU Treaty. This is independent of the association agreement, but in the light of the objective of the agreement, the political and also economic integration of Ukraine, it paves the way for EU membership. After all, it contains many elements to align Ukraine with the European state of salvation, flanked by a strong budget of some billions. There's a lot of money going that way and there's a lot more to come. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated that Ukraine has not applied for membership. But I'm gonna give you a note saying that this application is definitely coming. Accession to the European Union is highly dependent on political will. And there is. The powerful German Chancellor Merkel, a member of the largest European group, the European People's Party, has already expressed her support. It supports Ukraine with far-reaching reforms to meet the Copenhagen criteria in line with Article 49 of the EU Treaty, and will ensure that all Member States ratify the Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u70	I would like to come back to that. I hear all the suggestive remarks like: 'this will happen and will happen', but I have not yet heard where the step is right now; so a direct causal link between this association agreement and accession.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u71	As Mr Schaap will certainly know, if you want to join the EU, you have an acquis. There are many articles in this acquis. And now many of these articles are also included in the association agreement. They're only in a different order. That's right. Other colleagues have already said this: the association agreement simply contains articles that will put economic and political integration with the European Union into practice. That's just a fact. In addition, Poroshenko keeps shouting from the scenes: we are becoming a member of the EU! There is no one here in the house who has distanced himself from that statement by Poroshenko, including none of the government. They're gonna let it all go. But I can tell you that if I make the deal with someone that they don't become a member of anything and they keep calling for membership, I'll give up on those statements. No one's gonna do that. Does Mr Schaap renounce President Poroshenko's statement that he can become a member?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u72	I thought I was very clear in my contribution. Ukraine is miles away from even a possibility of the accession protocol. But I didn't ask. Mrs Faber claimed that there was a clear causal link between the association agreement and an application for membership. Of course, Ukraine can say that it would like to join. Why not? However, the answer is quite unambiguous: you are still a long way from it, so stay away for a while and try to embrace European values as much as possible, to build a rule of law, a fully-fledged democracy and so on. Fine! What happens after that, we'll see. But I asked what the causal link is. After all, Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst claimed that it exists between this association agreement and Ukraine's accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u73	It steams Ukraine ready for accession to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u74	Very nice: you see no causal connection, you just call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u75	I do not think Mr Schaap sees any causal link, but we can see that. He also says that Ukraine is far from ready and is far from us. So you can also consider not concluding an association agreement. And then we will not talk about visa liberalisation and so on and so forth. However, there seems to be other interests of Mr Schaap's party, the VVD, with the European Union. But he may not see that causal link either. I'm moving on. The powerful German Chancellor Merkel, member of the largest European group, the EPP, has already expressed her support. It supports Ukraine with far-reaching reforms to meet the Copenhagen criteria in line with Article 49 of the EU Treaty, and will ensure that all 28 Member States ratify the Association Agreement. This is entirely in line with the resolution adopted at the EPP conference in Malta. Herein this clip-and-ready is described. Let the CDA now also belong to this European group. This puts the tough language of the CDA in the Lower House in a very different light. Cries such as: 'can't ignore a referendum result' and 'from a democratic point of view there can't be ratified' went into the Maltese trash can. That's how we know the CDA again! A little further away from the elections, the CDA Senate Group can again openly take the pro-European course. As Ukraine is fixed on Article 49 to enter the EU, the United Kingdom is fixed on Article 50 to come out of the European Union. When Brexit becomes a practice, one of the participating Member States falls out of the agreement. There is therefore an amendment to the Treaty. The Minister stated in the reply: "However, if a treaty is amended, for whatever reason, each party must in principle ratify the amending treaty." The remaining parties will then have to ratify again, including the Netherlands. I would like to receive a reasoned confirmation or denial from the Minister. If this applies to this agreement, it also applies to other agreements. My next question to the Minister is therefore: which agreements and agreements are even more affected? I'm rounding up. From the beginning, the cabinet never wanted to change anything. It has also simply stated that the solution would not require a new round of ratifications of the Association Agreement. The Prime Minister has found a goat path to fool the States-General and the Dutch citizens with the minutes of the European Council. Shamelessly, the Prime Minister thinks this is a real solution and not a cosmetic one; a prime minister is unworthy. It is not possible for a majority of this chambre de réflexion, which is full of lawyers, professors and professors, to be sent into the forest with a fake solution after this charade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u76	Mr. Chairman. This debate gives me a déjà vu feeling. Almost two years ago, the First Chamber agreed to ratify the association agreements between the EU on the one hand and Moldova, Georgia and Ukraine on the other. The arguments for and against held by the parties at the time during the debate regarding the Treaty with Ukraine itself have hardly been changed. That's what I'm hearing here in the contributions. This shows that, two years ago, we gave this question some thought, and that we ourselves take the previous positions seriously. However, the outcome of the consultative referendum has forced us to reconsider our position. In any case, this applies to those in favour of the Treaty. My group, too, has done so. We have always been in favour of the Treaty and we have also tried to convince voters of the added value during the campaign. In our view, the Treaty enables us to support Ukraine's reform-minded citizens, to put better pressure on the authorities to strengthen the rule of law and to help the country develop in key areas such as economy and education. It is in the European interest to have a good relationship with the neighbours and that these neighbours score well in areas such as democracy and the rule of law. There's still a lot to do, I'll give it to the skeptics right away, but you better do that by supporting them with carrots and sticks than by turning away from them. At that last choice, you leave all those people in Ukraine, just those who are tired of corruption and who crave transparent politicians who are accountable and who have the best interests of the people at stake, in the freezing cold. You are not offering anything, except the feeling that they do not have to count on the Union. In this way, cynically enough, they are even more at the mercy of nepotism and destructive forces. I should also like to refer to the geopolitical considerations of the previous speakers. The conviction with which we voted in favour two years ago is therefore still present with my group. Do we leave our citizens in the cold by not taking over the result of the referendum? My group does not think so. We are very sorry that we have not been able to convince the majority of the Dutch voters, even though we have been used to that during the regular elections, but those who do vote for us are usually fervent supporters of the association agreement. If we no longer allow the content of our substantive considerations to be guiding, then we will end up in a democratic split anyway. This referendum is advisory. The word "consultative" is not just an addition, but is essential to the nature of the referendum. It has also been essential for parliamentary support for the referendum law. Parliament has not adopted a law on the corrective referendum, and it is doubtful whether it will ever do so. To treat an advisory referendum after adoption as a corrective referendum does not do justice to parliamentary democracy. The very thing about parliamentary democracy is that minorities also have a voice that is heard. "The majority determines" would in our view be an undesirable simplification of that important principle. Political parties are, of course, free to decide how they relate to a referendum result, but I found it extremely unwise, because of the consultative nature, that Lower House Groups were still calling for the referendum that they would at least respect the outcome. Yes, then it gets very confusing, because with that you voluntarily awaken an expectation that is not based on the law itself. As far as my group is concerned, we have weighed the result as a major opinion. We have looked at the arguments exchanged during the campaign, at the possible consequences of rejecting the treaty and at the way our own supporters have looked at these two different interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u77	Do I now hear Mr Strik distance himself from her political leader, who said 'we are going to take over the outcome of this referendum' and 'I do not think that we are going to get back to that'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u78	No, I am referring to the statements made by many politicians, even before we had a result at all, that they would always take over the result, no matter what that result would be. We didn't do that. The leader of the Green Left Group in the European Parliament did not do that either, but he said afterwards that this is a serious signal and that we need to do something with it. He also said that there was no chance that we would simply take over the results. We have indeed called for a very close look at the way in which we can respond to the people who voted no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u79	Thank you for this clarification. But after the outcome of the referendum, the political leader of GroenLinks made it very clear that he would respect the outcome. It was the GroenLinks Congress that had to whistle him back for that, wasn't it? Surely it is not the case that the political leadership of GroenLinks himself decided not to take over the result?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u80	The group across the street has made its own reflections on this issue. It wasn't our turn at all at the time. The chairman of the political group has indicated that the result is a serious one. The Congress then made an unambiguous statement, which we also took very seriously. That's absolutely true. That is why I am also saying that for us both the outcome of the referendum and the call of the Congress and its own substantive considerations have made us want to express our support for this Treaty once again. Many arguments have been raised during the campaign, and ex post research has shown that there have been several reasons for voting for or against the Treaty. There is therefore no clear picture of the motivations, even though it was clear from the bar that the initiators intended only an anti-EU action. The Government has distilled a number of arguments from investigations and has used them for the decision of the Member States of the Union. These are all arguments that are not fundamental about the Treaty itself, such as the fear of accession, free movement or compulsory cooperation in the field of defence. That is precisely why the government was able to draw up this declaration without having to change the content of the Treaty. For us, therefore, it was a fundamental question whether the destruction of the Treaty would really satisfy the concerns that exist. In the end, we don't think so. I must say that I have often followed the campaign with curved toes because of the mixing of facts and alternative facts. I would also have liked the government, which was so passionate about the treaty here, to have made more effort to convince the Dutch people themselves. It is quite a responsibility for citizens to vote yes or no on such a complex issue. The democratic nature of a referendum in one Member State on a multilateral treaty is still a separate issue. Is it logical that a majority of the Dutch who have voted, i.e. 30% of the electorate, can determine the entire population of the European Union plus Ukraine? In the case of a bilateral treaty, that is a lot clearer. This seems to me to be something that needs to be reflected further. This is our first experience with the consultative referendum, and it is a pity that it has been on such a complex issue right away. Therefore, let us not sacrifice the consultative referendum for this, but let us examine in more detail how we can make other forms of democracy, such as deliberative forms, complementary to our system of parliamentary democracy. I hope that the state committee will come up with wise opinions on this matter. The government has worked towards a decision by Heads of State or Government explaining what the Treaty does not mean. I have already made the comparison with handing over a red apple in the General Political Reviews, stating that it is not a green apple. In terms of content, such a statement has no added value, but the government wanted to reassure the voters in the Netherlands more or less. That is understandable, but it is a question of whether it does not offer a false guarantee. For example, there are very different procedures and criteria for accession which are separate from this Treaty. We just had a little debate on that, too. The statement could, paradoxically, give the impression that the Heads of Government have now said something about it. In my opinion, this is entirely separate from possible accession procedures or whatever. I'd like to get a reaction from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u81	Let me come back to the previous point on the referendum and the question of how we should deal with the outcome of this consultative referendum. It is clear that it is consultative. Furthermore, the Green Left Group in this House has always advocated a corrective referendum because of the ambiguity that a consultative referendum can create. It is clear that GroenLinks has now distanced itself from this and is of a different opinion. At least I can see that again here. That's her right, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u82	I didn't say that. Anyway, keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u83	That's what I like to hear. But it is a party's right to change its mind and, on second thought, not to be in favour of a corrective referendum. In any case, I understand that the Green Left Congress has expressed its opinion on this issue. The question is whether this should also apply retroactively. When the referendum was held, GroenLinks was still in favour of both the consultative and the corrective referendum and indicated that she would take this result very seriously. After the referendum, the GroenLinks spokesperson across the street, Grashoff, said that a repeal law was the first necessary step to do justice to the outcome. Meanwhile GroenLinks can think differently about the usefulness of referenda, but can we also change the rules of the game afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u84	We are in favour of an advisory referendum, and I am not abandoning it now. I do say that it is a pity that the first referendum we had was about such a complex issue as a multilateral treaty, but I am not going to distance myself from it at all. You say that Mr Grashoff said in the House of Representatives that there should be a repeal law. I know he said that because we have to reflect on how we proceed with it, but that does not bind me, in the sense that I must necessarily respect the outcome of that referendum. I have already said that it is an advisory referendum. That is something other than a corrective referendum. Even if we are still in favour of a corrective referendum on which there is indeed a discussion in the party, we are still facing an advisory referendum. We should first have a legislative proposal on this and then hold a referendum on that basis. You can't just confuse those two, can you? I can quote your colleague, Mr Kox, who said that there was a threshold of entry for validity and that it had become a de facto corrective referendum. That is, of course, incorrect. You have to keep it clean. This is legislation on consultative referenda. It is not possible, with a threshold or a debate around it, to change the way it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u85	For this to happen, the Constitution needs to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u86	Thank you for saying that the Constitution needs to be amended. That would indeed be a good thing, according to the SP Group. However, we fear that this will not happen for the time being, given the retreating movements, also of your party on this point. Mrs Strik is right to say that there is a fundamental difference between an advisory and a corrective referendum, but that right to vote is important. It has been discussed in this House in the vein of: if we introduce an entry threshold, it is much more difficult to ignore the result of the referendum. It is then a very urgent advice and you must have very good reasons to put it next to you. That is also what prompted Mr Grashoff and others to say in the Lower House that the government should now come up with a repeal law. What else is the case? That you let four million voters go to the ballot box and then say to those voters: yes, I'm sorry, you've said a massive no now, but we're still drawing different conclusions. Then I come back to Mr Buma's words that you then use democracy as a kind of laboratory and that you do not really take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u87	Can you come to a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u88	My question is whether these considerations also apply to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance in this Chamber. To quote the words of Mr Grashoff, he said: if we do not now come up with that repeal law, it will affect confidence in politics even further. That could be a consideration I haven't heard from you about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u89	I think it can also be confusing for citizens if you say they can vote for an advisory referendum, but we treat it as corrective. It couldn't be the other way around. Surely we are deciding what form of referendum, input or direct democracy we want to organise here? I think it is very important, if an opinion is to be delivered, and that opinion was indeed: to withdraw it to take it very seriously and not to say: we are going to proceed to the order of the day. That didn't happen. It has been discussed extensively in the House of Representatives. The government has gone to Brussels, talked to all the countries and sought a solution. Honestly, there's very little in between moving in or ratifying. I think this is the big problem with this issue. In this respect, it would be more suitable for a corrective referendum. You have to choose whether you're gonna ratify it or withdraw it. I have just said that the outcome was one of the considerations, but there are others as well. What does our supporters think? What do we think about the content of this treaty and the need to ratify it? Mr. Chairman. I will continue with my speech. Moreover, it is strange that the declaration does not bind Ukraine or the Union, as Mr Schrijver also pointed out. It is only the Member States, and therefore not a Council decision, and a welcome press release from Ukraine, but that can hardly lead to de facto binding on Ukraine. Mr Schrijver does not think so, but I am a little more sceptical about that. My group feels that a declaration which means anything or can change the interpretation will have to be signed by all parties bound by a treaty. In the reply, the Government refers to the Rottmann judgment, in which the Court also attaches importance to a joint declaration or a Council decision. I have looked into that, but that is a decision that all the parties have made. We are missing Ukraine here and it is not a decision of the Council or of the Commission. That makes it a somewhat one-sided statement. I am very curious to see what value this can have, even before the Court. The question is why Ukraine and the Commission have not co-signed it. It is a mixed treaty, isn't it, or does it only look at the intergovernmental part? If so, would Ukraine still be needed? My group also questions the additional statement which the Netherlands wishes to make separately on Article 10 concerning participation in military cooperation. What does this statement specifically add to the decision of all Member States? Surely no one can force the Netherlands to participate in military cooperation? Do we perhaps bind ourselves with this, or can Parliament or the government decide on military cooperation with Ukraine after this? And if the declaration has the same non-legally binding value, why did the Netherlands not immediately opt for a unilateral unilateral declaration on all these points? I would like to hear more precisely what the legal difference is between the decision, which is actually an explanation, and the additional statement by the Netherlands. One of the concerns that opponents and opponents share concerns the high level of corruption in Ukraine. Without an effective approach, development towards a democratic rule of law will not be possible, but economic growth and access to services for citizens and businesses will also be severely hampered. Everyone wants to get rid of that, but some of the supporters and opponents disagree about the best strategy. My group does consider the political part of the Treaty to be instrumental, given the judicial reforms recently introduced and the new bodies with a strong mandate to fight corruption. The decision therefore rightly places a great deal of weight on this subject, referring to appropriate measures which the Union may take if Ukraine fails to act. These must be appropriate measures, with the ultimate remedium being the suspension of parts or of the entire Convention. In my group this leads to the question of how the government appreciates the situation at the moment. If it finds that there is a high level of corruption, should there not already be firm, measurable agreements on reducing it, for example within a few years, in the absence of progress the aid is stopped or other measures are taken? Of course, it is very vulnerable to include all kinds of criteria for action, while the treaty country already has difficulties in meeting them. Our group would like to see a more compelling and ambitious attitude of the Union in this regard. The Minister explained that suspension can only take place with a Council decision. It will not be easy to reach consensus on this, but we are counting on an active attitude from the Netherlands, even when it comes to gaining support, if that is necessary. The Chamber would like to be kept informed of Ukraine's progress on this issue and the way in which the Union supports it. After weighing up our substantive arguments, the outcome of the consultative referendum and the view of our own constituents, our group will support the entry into force of the ratification of the association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u90	Mr. Chairman. I asked for only a very limited amount of speaking time for this legislative proposal, because I had already made it clear here that I consider the entry into force of the Association Agreement with Ukraine to be important, and that I believe that the outcome of the referendum should not stop us from doing so now that, with the agreement of all the partners in the European Union, it is clearly established where the limits of what the Treaty is about. In this context, I have also congratulated the Prime Minister for this, in my opinion, satisfactory response to the arguments put forward by the no-voters of the referendum. The declaration lays down the limits of what the treaty is about. In previous contributions some confusion has arisen as to what that means. In my opinion, this should mean that I am asking the government too that it does not prevent anyone from taking or adopting measures in the future which are not in line with what is now laid down in this declaration, for example the theoretical case of EU membership of Ukraine. We can do that in the future. Everyone has the right to do so, but it can never be done on the basis of this treaty. It's clearly documented. That seems to me to be the interpretation, but I would like to hear it from the government. I consider the association agreement to be important, for Europe, for ourselves, but even more so for the Ukrainian people. The Treaty will have to and can contribute to the development of the Ukrainian economy, to the development of the rule of law, to the fight against corruption and the far-reaching interweaving of economic and political power. The treaty must not remain in place until all these problems have been resolved, no, it is precisely to help solve these problems and is therefore necessary now. That is precisely why the Ukrainian people are so keen to see this treaty approved, in the hope that it will contribute to the development of what is so common to us, legal certainty and some prosperity. I am convinced that an overwhelming majority of the Ukrainian population really does. The hope of Europe among the people there creates obligations for us towards the Ukrainian people, also in view of the irresponsible way in which European politicians, including Dutch politicians, launched the Majdanplein protests in 2013, sometimes with false promises and expectations for the future. For the sake of clarity, the Ukrainian people have the right to choose a direction for Europe, and for Europe it is good to have the opportunity to contribute to the emergence of a neighbouring country which is prosperous and stable. The alternative would probably have been an east-oriented, permanently corrupt and thus inherently unstable and autocracy-oriented neighbor who would have been able to produce a stream of refugees in the worst case. But the fact that the way in which this has been achieved, the 2013 revolution, and in particular the role of European politicians in it, has shot the Russians in the wrong throat, should not surprise us. And of course, it is also clear that not everyone has been happy about it in Russia-oriented eastern Ukraine. That certainly does not justify what has happened since then in the East, but it could perhaps lead to some understanding and also to the willingness of the Ukrainian Government and Parliament to make concessions to the East and thus also indirectly to the wounded Russian pride. It seems as if the nationalist vote among the people, parliament and government does not make that easy. This is particularly apparent from the unwillingness to achieve real decentralisation, but it is probably also evident from the course of events at the Eurovision Song Contest and now again from the sanctions against Russian social media. And that should encourage Europe, and also the Netherlands, to exert more pressure to find a real solution. The leaders of both Republics of the People's Republics of Donetsk and Luhansk are, of course, villains and they are supported by the Russian fire behind them, but I would fear that the government in Kiev does not have much regard for the people there either. And then there is a series of not entirely unrealistic solutions to the conflict: a permanent Ukrainian unitary state or a real decentralisation or even a real federalism and possibly also an independent Donbas or even an association with Russia of the eastern region. In these extremely polarized circumstances, should any option be possible depending on the will of the people there? Does the government believe that, apart from all the practical difficulties that lie ahead, this is the main issue? And if she does, does she want to be clear about that to the Ukrainian Government? So, as far as I'm concerned, we have a double message going to Ukraine. We will be pleased to see the association agreement put into effect, and we will sincerely try to contribute to the development of a modern state geared to the well-being of its citizens and, of course, as a trade nation, we will also like to promote economic relations between us, but the problem with the East and indirectly Russia must be solved and with only fervent nationalism that is not resolved. It seems to me that making that clear is also a necessary part of our approach, which must be the complement of the association agreement. I wonder if the government agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u91	I listened very handcuffed to Mr Ten Hoeve. I can imagine that, as far as the constitutional structure of Ukraine is concerned, you can have very interesting ideas as to whether or not it should have a federal connection to the most autonomous status of certain areas. Nevertheless, I got the impression that in the momentum of his ideas he also played with fire by suggesting that Donbas or the eastern part of Ukraine as a whole could also become part of the neighbouring country Russia. Does he not respond to the wrong forces and is that so politically sensible and appropriate at a time when part of Ukraine is still occupied by Russia? Should we not, from the free western world, fully support the principle of at least territorial integrity of the state association Ukraine and should we not always leave it to the free choice of Ukraine to organise its own state system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u92	We have discussed in this Chamber once before the question of how far one should always rely on that principle of territorial integrity. I think we sometimes deal with this too legalisticly. This can be useful, especially in a situation where there is explicit interference by a foreign power. That is the case here. However, we cannot ignore the very realistic possibility that in Eastern Ukraine a fairly large part of the population feels more connected with Russia than with Ukraine. A large part of the population comes from there. The borders of Ukraine have not always been established historically, of course not. The fact that there is a discussion about how these boundaries could possibly be better, does not seem impossible to me at least. I have a tendency to accept this option explicitly, even though it should not interfere with the opposition to Russian intervention there at the moment. I am talking more about taking into account the will of populations in the long term. It is not, of course, a statement by the entire Ukrainian population, but, as far as I am concerned, it is an express statement by the people in these parts of Ukraine. That could lead to something quite different. But the willingness to take that into account should be present. I have the feeling that this willingness is absolutely not present in the Ukrainian Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u93	I see that Mr Schaap wants to respond to this, but I am looking at the clock. The Foreign Minister is expected across the street. It was agreed that I would suspend at 4:25 p.m. This exchange of views is in itself very interesting, but we are talking about the association agreement. We can now speculate on how Ukraine should behave, yes or no. This subject has been raised by Mr Ten Hoeve, but it is not the subject of a debate. We've had this for a while, and I'd like to leave it at that. I shall suspend the debate on this subject until dinner break. The end of the dinner break is scheduled at 18.40 hours. Then let's move on. After the dinner break, the contributions of the SP and the Party for Animals will come in first installment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u94	And then I'm gonna try to answer without suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-7.u95	If that's what you're given, Prime Minister, I'd love to!
