ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 34773, R2069, to approve the withdrawal of the Statute of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization established in Vienna on 8 April 1979. I would like to welcome the new Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to the First Chamber. I warmly congratulate her on her appointment and wish her every success in fulfilling her duties. I would remind the Chamber that the plenary session of this bill was held at the meeting of 19 December 2016 after the second term of the then Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The technical briefing on this bill took place on 26 September 2017. Today's plenary session will continue with a third deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to welcome the new Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, Mrs Kaag, to her first plenary debate in the Upper House. This is the third time that we have debated in this House the intention to terminate the Dutch membership of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, UNIDO. During the first plenary debate in the First Chamber four years ago, the Minister decided to withdraw the bill until the government could justify the position that UNIDO is not performing adequately with facts. Three years later, at the end of 2016, the intention to terminate the Staff Regulations was re-submitted after UNIDO was assessed on organisational effectiveness and relevance to Dutch policy priorities. There were questions at that time with the D66 Group about: the desirability that our internationally oriented country should denounce a treaty with a UN organisation of which 168 countries are members; the haste of decision-making in this House; the manner in which the score cards are drawn up; the conclusions on the functioning of UNIDO, including vis-à-vis other UN organisations; on the relationship between the mandate and work of UNIDO and the sustainable development goal 9, i.e. SDG9, for innovation and sustainable infrastructure, and the importance of this goal for the Dutch international climate policy. The Chamber agreed with the former Minister Ploumen's proposal to hold the bill for a year in order to include the views of a technical briefing on the scorecards and the new evaluation of UNIDO in the third term. Today, it will be clear whether this new information leads to different conclusions. The main question for my group remains whether it is wise to denounce the UN convention at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that, in the opinion of the D66 Group, the Netherlands should make efforts to promote more efficient and effective international organisations, with the aim of reducing or stopping voluntary contributions in the event of insufficient improvement. In this context, the approach to the assessment of these organisations through score cards is important. My group sees that UNIDO has made progress in recent years, according to these score cards, in a number of areas, including strategy and accountability, but has started to score worse in the fight against corruption, financial stability and human resources policies. According to our own words, UNIDO is precisely increasing the effectiveness and impact of the organisation. They also raise the question of whether, on the basis of the current score, the decision was also taken to terminate the UNIDO Convention. We'd like to hear the Minister's response. Would it therefore take into account the value the government attaches in this assessment to the scorecards of the other UN organisations when deciding to stop Dutch participation in UNIDO? We are also curious to see how this minister sees the focus UNIDO has on industrial development, which is the ninth of the sustainable development goals in relation to other UN organisations. After all, UNIDO is the only specialised UN organisation that has the mandate to promote sustainable industrial development. Especially when we need business so badly in achieving the Paris climate goals, isn't that an important point of view? In addition, UNIDO's membership could strengthen the access of Dutch companies and knowledge institutions in the renewable energy and process technology sector, a word for emerging economies. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally, on this point. The new Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, intends to thoroughly reorganise the United Nations. Does the Minister agree that it is better to wait and see what concrete reform proposals the new UN sg will come up with at the end of this year, before withdrawing from the Netherlands to UNIDO? It is, as I said, a year ago that the first and second periods of this plenary debate took place. A lot can happen in a year. In the meantime, it has become clear that the new American President Donald Trump has little faith in international cooperation. This is reflected, among other things, in his plans to leave the Paris Convention on Climate Change and his decision to withdraw from UNESCO, the UN Organisation for Education, Science and Culture. In just over a month's time, the Netherlands will become a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, which will further highlight the decisions of the Netherlands on the international stage. At the moment, the withdrawal of UNIDO membership could give the impression that the Netherlands shares Donald Trump's commitment to international politics, as well as to international companies and knowledge institutions. As our group chairman, Thom de Graaf, said in his contribution to this debate in 2013, and I myself put forward in the first and second periods of this debate, my group believes that the Netherlands, with its long history in contributing to international community and legal form, must have extremely strong arguments to withdraw from global multilateral organisations that we ourselves have co-founded. I'm rounding up. My group still does not think it is appropriate to leave a UN organisation now. In fact, in recent months there seems to have been only reason not to denounce the UNIDO agreement. My group would like to recommend to the Minister that this bill be retained or withdrawn. At the same time, the Minister, preferably at EU level, could contribute to the reform plans of the current UN Secretary-General. In this way, the Netherlands can play a constructive role in UN reforms and thus contribute to improving the efficiency and impact of all UN organisations. Mr President, my group is looking forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Overbeek.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the SP Group and on behalf of the Group of the Party of Animals, for whom I may speak, I would like to welcome the Minister to this Chamber, and I hope that we will be able to work together in a fruitful manner in the coming period. We are talking today about the government's intention to withdraw from UNIDO's Dutch membership. This intention has been mentioned twice before in this house. In 2013, this led to the withdrawal of the proposal and in 2016 led to the request of the then Minister of Foreign Affairs to hold the bill until autumn 2017, in both cases because a majority in this Chamber was not willing to follow the government. This third deadline should clarify whether it is still appropriate to follow the present proposal, which dates from 11 May 2016, and actually from autumn 2012. I will build up my speech on some of the questions I would like to put to the Minister, questions which are in line with the critical comments of the Council of State and which have not been sufficiently answered. My first question is simply whether the Minister agrees with the Council of State and with us that membership of the family of UN organisations is very important for the Netherlands. If so, does the Minister agree that the withdrawal of Dutch membership of a specialised UN organisation should only be seen in the event of serious dysfunction of the organisation concerned, and as a last resort? Is there such a dysfunction? UNIDO currently has 168 members, of the 193 UN members, including 19 EU Member States and 34 Member States of the Council of Europe. This was 172 in 2000, so there is absolutely no emptying. UNIDO is the only specialised UN organisation, out of 15, dedicated to inclusive and sustainable industrial development. UNIDO works closely with programmes and organisations such as UNDP, UNEP and also the European Commission. In 2015, UNIDO received bad results for strategy and result management (a 1 and a 2). On this occasion, Minister Ploumen's criticism was to a large extent concentrated. In 2017, UNIDO scores a 3, or a doubling of the scores, if you can say so. UNIDO also scored better on cost reduction in 2017, but the score deteriorated on financial stability and HRM. In fact, as the score card makes clear, these are two sides of one coin: less unintended income forces cost reduction, which appears as a plus, but it also appears as reduced financial stability and that is a minus. This also has an impact on staffing. The lower score on anti-corruption comes back: there was temporary underemployment in the Office of Internal Oversight Services (IOS), but that has been restored. In the score card we see that the low score for the anti-corruption point is actually based on pure speculation. I quote: "In view of the limited capacity at IOS, it is doubtful whether all fraud and corruption cases will come to light. The risk of fraud is therefore highly assessed." A good example of what we see more often when assessing integrity policies: if few cases are known, supervision will be inadequate; if many cases are addressed, there is apparently a lot of corruption. That way, of course, you can never do it right. My second question therefore concerns the dysfunction of UNIDO. How serious does the Minister consider that, given that there are no failing projects, large-scale fraud or corruption, financial maladministration, or a large drain on members? My third question concerns the principle of ultimatum remedia. Earlier in this debate, Minister Ploumen indicated that there was no direct consultation with UNIDO. It has been reported from UNIDO circles that there have been better contacts over the past year. Does the Minister agree with me that these better relations deserve a chance to mature further? Mr. Chairman. The government's argument is strongly based on the biennial scorecards. A technical briefing took place on 26 September. That was a very informative session and my group is very grateful for this briefing. However, the briefing has also made clear why the score cards are not suitable to underpin decisions such as the present one. Let me make this clear on the basis of four main points. 1. Score cards are drawn up for 31 organisations, each with its own "desk employee," which processes information supplied by 120 people from very diverse sources. There is no validated methodology for casting that information in a well comparable form. There is, therefore, a'scorecard' and then I am still generously speaking at best of limited comparability of the scorecards among myself. 2. The criteria do not count equally heavily, as became clear in the hearing, and the heaviness can also be assessed differently on a case-by-case basis. In the final analysis, therefore, this weighting is based on the Minister's political judgement. 3. Change the number and definition of the criteria. There is therefore no comparability in the time of the scores per organisation. 4. The scorecards do not provide an adequate source, so the assessments cannot be reproduced by Parliament. There is certainly no question of pages with notes, as Minister Ploumen said earlier in this debate. The fourth question, which was put in vain twice in the debate, relates to the average scores for UNIDO. If you calculate the average: in 2015 that was 2.75 and in 2017 2.90, where 1 is insufficient, 2 moderate, and 3 is sufficient. Converted to an ordinary report figure, this was a 6.88 in 2015 and 7.22 in 2017. Does the Minister agree with me that such a figure could hardly lead to the "insufficient" judgment? My fifth question concerns the letter of 21 September 2017, by which the Ministry offered the new multilateral scorecards to this Chamber. We read in the fourth paragraph on page 4: "On the basis of the analysis of the score cards, the Netherlands will focus on improving the functioning of the following organisations: OCHA, UNCTAD, UNDP, UNESCO and UNIDO." A brief description of the improvements that the government intends to make will then be given to each organisation. At UNIDO, page 6, we read an innovative interpretation of the concept of "improvement": "The cabinet intends to reduce the Dutch involvement in UNIDO and to withdraw from the founding treaty." Does the Minister agree that the first approach, which is to concentrate on improvements, is generally preferable to the second, namely exit? Mr. Chairman. Looking at the many shortcomings and inconsistencies in the government's argument, I come to the conclusion that there is not enough basis for the withdrawal of the UNIDO Treaty. Let me therefore try to change the direction of the debate so that we can have a more fruitful exchange of views. That is in line with what the previous speaker said. UNIDO is an integral part of the entire UN development system. UNIDO often collaborates with other organisations in its work-sharing projects. It therefore seems advisable to include the functioning of the entire UN development system in the debate. This minister has just taken office. I trust that she will be able to look at this proposal with the necessary distance. I also noticed during the meeting with the Minister in the BDO Commission on 14 November that the Minister has high expectations of the reform process launched by the new UN Secretary-General, António Guterres. In the aforementioned offer letter to the 2017 Scorecards, the government also expressed a positive view of its vision launched on 30 June 2017, which the government says is well in line with the Dutch commitment. One of the things Guterres said in the vision he launched is that he calls on the Member States "to build confidence and support to the core budgets of UN development entities," including UNIDO. Am I tasting it right that there's room here for a solution? Can the Minister agree that the best way to improve the functioning of UN development organisations is to work together with the Secretary-General on a fundamental reform of the entire UN development force, and that the termination of the UNIDO Treaty at this time would unnecessarily interfere with that process? My group looks forward to answering the questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Overbeek. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. The third round of UNIDO, now in the form of a third term, eleven months after the Minister's termination of the second term. But first of all, on behalf of my group, I too would like to welcome the new Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation to this Chamber after last week's pleasant acquaintance. In this third, or perhaps 2.5th, period.............................................................................................................................................................................. Let me take a few key points together and, briefly, weigh up a few new developments. An earlier legislative proposal has already been mentioned about ending UNIDO's membership, which we are now discussing, dates back to 2012 and was taken back by the Minister in this Chamber in 2013. In the meantime, we are four years ahead and we have done the necessary work on the part of the UN. Member States have replaced the Millennium Development Goals with 17 much more comprehensive Sustainable Development Goals towards 2030. Objective 17 of the so-called SDGs is to strengthen the global partnership for sustainable development. The Paris climate agreement has greatly increased the urgency of working together on climate goals worldwide by all means. Under the leadership of the new Secretary-General Gutteres, a reform agenda is being implemented to make the UN more effective and proactive, including in order to reach the SDGs and to respond to much criticism of the UN's functioning. Mr. Chairman. Compared to our previous debate a year ago, new scorecards were developed for UNIDO, but also for other organisations. The cabinet itself writes about this: "The multilateral organisations analysed are generally judged positively on their functioning. There has been an improvement over the 2015 scores." For UNIDO in particular, the strategy and accountability, which the cabinet was still explicitly concerned about in 2015, is now being adequately achieved. Minister Ploumen said in her first term last year: "If we could only hear from others around us that UNIDO's way of working has become much more strategic, much more focused, if we had received such signals, we would of course have gone further." Well, the Minister is being served: the scorecards speak in particular on this section in any case clear language. Progress has also been made in terms of results orientation and operational management. In the letter on the new Scorecards 2017, the cabinet writes: "Cooperation with poorly functioning organisations has already stopped." In this respect, there seems to be no more urgent reason, in the eyes of the Cabinet, to withdraw from the UNIDO Convention. Unlike Minister Ploumen, these scorecards were not our main point. More fundamentally, we said that membership of the United Nations is not a non-binding matter or represents a cafeteria model, but that it is a commitment that is being made structurally with all the opportunities and issues associated with it. Our group wants to base its participation in the UN and their organisations on continuity and also to give direction to developments, in a lesser and now seemingly better time. That fundamental point still stands. In fact, as the UN as a whole, led by the new Secretary-General, is engaged in a major reform agenda, as UNIDO is taking important steps forward and as the weight of sustainable development goals is increasing, there is every reason to continue to support UNIDO's contribution to, for example, Objective 9 and perhaps 12, and UNIDO's contribution to Dutch priorities such as climate, water, energy and green growth. This is a somewhat more fundamental point, moreover, in the second-term response last year. Maybe the Minister can say something about that now. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group is concerned, the scorecards do not give a clear result towards the exit. That is interesting, especially since the previous minister in December last year explicitly indicated at your invitation, Mr President, that with the new score cards all options would be open. More fundamentally, we say: invest in cooperation. My question to the current Minister is whether she is open to all options and what alternatives she sees in addition to the termination of the Treaty. To help a little: my group is thinking, for example, of a Dutch commitment to further improve UNIDO's results by engaging in closer cooperation with, for example, the UNDP programme. Especially now that membership of the Security Council happens to us next year, the Dutch voice has extra weight, including in this approach. Finally, we are curious about the possibilities that this Minister sees for an alternative way of dealing with UNIDO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, too, a warm welcome to the Minister. I too express my full confidence in a fruitful cooperation of this house with her and her department. Madam President. Today, once again, the question is whether the Netherlands should continue to contribute to UNIDO, and in the third period after the debate has been suspended a few months ago in order to clarify the quality of the score cards used in the evaluation. It has become a long and lingering debate in this house. The proposal of the then cabinet was already presented in 2013. The VVD Group hopes that a decision can be reached today, now that the new cabinet is holding on to its previous intention. To refresh memory and catch up with the minister on my part, a brief recapitulation of the VVD set-up in this process follows. The VVD had doubts about the effectiveness of UNIDO in 2013. At that time, the Chamber considered, in a majority opinion, that the basis of the proposed decision was insufficient, and the Minister then withdrew the proposal. A new, penetrating assessment in 2015 again proved to the VVD Group that UNIDO did not fulfil its mission. The objectives considered relevant by the Netherlands regarding the industrial development of these countries are not met and the organisation does not operate effectively enough. As far as we are concerned, the scorecards clearly demonstrated that the failure of UNIDO is structural in nature. The strategy of this organisation is unclear; not enough is being done with measurable objectives; the projects are too small-scale and fragmented to stimulate industrial development in the countries concerned. The mandate has therefore not been fulfilled and there is not enough scope for improvement. The wider domain that UNIDO focuses on, such as water, climate and food security, does not contribute to this. In addition, these areas are also covered by other UN activities. During the debate, the question arose as to whether working with the user score cards is sufficiently objective and reliable to justify a conclusion and support a decision in this Chamber. Madam President. The official explanatory statement we have received has not led the VVD Group to change its mind, quite the contrary. We are convinced that the evaluation has been carried out properly and leads to a reliable conclusion. That's ground enough to come to a conclusion today. As far as we are concerned, this Chamber agrees with the intention of withdrawing its participation in the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. The termination of the participation may then be effected on 1 January. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you very much, Mr Schaap. I give the floor to Mrs Vlietstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Labour Party's political groups and the Independent Senate Group, I too would like to congratulate the Minister on her appointment. We have high expectations of this minister and we look forward to good cooperation. Mr. Chairman. The political groups of the PvdA and the OSF thank the Minister for the technical briefing on the system of the scorecard. The Minister's staff have clarified the criteria used to assess the functioning and relevance of 31 multilateral organisations, programmes and funds. I will come back to that, but first I would like to raise another point. We are on the eve of Dutch membership of the UN Security Council. In its letter to the Chamber of 27 October, the government states that, following an intensive campaign, the Kingdom was elected by almost unanimous vote as non-permanent member of the Security Council during the year 2018. It's a huge achievement. As a member of the Security Council, the government wants to contribute to international peace and security, including contributing to combating the root causes of conflicts such as underdevelopment, unequal opportunities for women, food and water insecurity and a limited future perspective for young people. The government is also committed to increasing the effectiveness of the UN as a whole and to intensive cooperation with other European countries in preparing for discussions in the Security Council. Those are intentions which are warmly endorsed by our groups, but which also raise a question in the light of the subject we are discussing here today. How should we see this letter in relation to the government's intention to withdraw from membership of one of the UN organisations on the same day that our country joins the Security Council? It seems to us that this is not in line with the way in which the Netherlands describes its ambitions and that this is not a good step to create sympathy for proposals from the Netherlands within the group of 77, the club of developing countries. In this context, I would like to refer once again to the Council of State, which, in its opinion, asks what withdrawal from an international organisation means for the multilateral reputation and tradition of a country such as the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the first debate in 2013, my group, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, made it clear that the withdrawal of a multilateral development treaty is a very significant step. In the second debate that started a year ago and is continuing today, we have made this clear once again, on behalf of the PvdA and OSF groups. In the debate, my predecessor, Mr Schrijver, pointed out that it is very important for the soundness, effectiveness and predictability of international cooperation not to fall into a UN à la carte, where a Member State can, at its will, go out and back in. In the opinion of our two groups, it is impossible for a multilateral organisation such as UNIDO with nearly 170 Member States to match the political priorities of the individual Member States, which can also change over any period of government. Such unilateral steps do not fit in with the Dutch tradition of respect for international organisations and strengthening the international legal order. Does the Minister agree with us? Of course, it is important to monitor the effectiveness and functioning of the international organisations of which the Netherlands is a member, and that goes without saying for UNIDO. Which brings me to the score card. On three points, the technical briefing did not provide an answer in our view. Firstly, we have noticed that there has been no hearing and hearing with the organisations concerned. Only on the basis of the outcome of the scorecard will the conversation be started with them. Can the Minister explain why this approach was adopted? Our groups can still imagine this when it comes to an open discussion, in which the results are shared and together we are looking at how to improve. But when, as in the case of UNIDO, the outcome has already been established and the decision to resign has already been taken, we consider this to be a careless process. Secondly, it has not become clear how the different criteria are weighted relative to each other. For example, do results and transparency weigh as much as financial stability or strategy and accountability? Finally, it is not clear which score an organisation must meet in order to remain assured of support. On both points, I would like an answer from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to zoom in on UNIDO's scorecard. What is striking is that UNIDO overalls score a sufficient score. Of the maximum possible score of 36 points, UNIDO achieves 26. If my son had previously come home with such a report, which unfortunately was often not the case, I would have been satisfied and I would have looked with him where improvement is possible. But also when assessing the relevance for the BH&D policy, we notice that twice "relevant", three times "limited relevant" and not once "not relevant" has been scored, in our opinion, no score that justifies such a far-reaching step. In conclusion, in addition to our more principled approach, we also see no reason in the scorecard to denounce the UNIDO agreement. However, there is a task for the organisation in order to improve, in particular, internal management. The Director of UNIDO sent an e-mail a week ago in which he elaborates on the content of the scorecard and indicates that his organization is currently functioning better and more effective and relevant than shown in the scorecard. Mr. Chairman. We do not need to comment on the content of the scorecard, nor on Mr Kuniyoshi's response. In the eyes of our political groups, these two documents could provide an excellent basis for a discussion between the Minister and UNIDO's leadership. We would like to invite the Minister to enter into this discussion and ask the Minister if she is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the political groups of the PvdA and the OSF would like to receive an answer to the next question we asked in the second term. It would be a good thing if the European Union were to become a member of UNIDO, as is the case with the FAO and the World Trade Organisation. Our groups have asked the Minister what efforts have been made on this issue in recent years. They also asked the Minister whether it would not be appropriate to await the outcome of that process before withdrawing membership. Finally, I would like to endorse the plea of several political groups to give the new UN Secretary-General an opportunity to reform and make the whole UN organisation more effective, to implement and not to withdraw from membership of any of the UN organisations in advance. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the Minister's answers. I'll try not to lose weight again today!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mrs Vlietstra. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u13	Madam President. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister. We are very much looking forward to cooperation in the coming period. No one can claim that the Dutch Parliament has not talked carefully and thoroughly about our membership of UNIDO. For years, the subject has turned up. The last time it was discussed in this house, the then minister had to take the subject off the table for the time being. Her own party threatened to abandon her. And so we stayed a little longer in UNIDO. You can call it careful, but it is also a bit the type of care you do not really look for when removing a patch: it looks careful, but it prolongs the pain. Hopefully that will come to an end, left or right, at least. UNIDO is a product of the 1960s. The club of 77 poor countries and the Soviet Union advocated a new international economic order, particularly in the context of the United Nations. Industrial activity had to be transferred from rich to poor countries, and that was the work of governments, of states. That's how UNIDO came about. In the 1990s it actually became a bit of a fremdkörper, because industries in developing countries started to take care of themselves more and more. Developing country China became the largest factory in the world and not a human being who thought of UNIDO in the distance. America left under President Clinton UNIDO, as did Canada and Australia. Later on, other, also European countries would follow. In the beginning, UNIDO was left behind with a blown-up device of workers from developing countries based in Vienna. Those who wanted to vote against development cooperation as such at that time could at that time only paint a day out of the life of a UNIDO employee in Vienna. UNIDO has done the necessary work in recent years. It has been considerably reduced, and we have to give that to the organization as well. Still...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u14	I would like to ask Mr Knapen if he remembers, I think it is true that in the earlier part of the debate, which was about the scorecards, 2015 was on the agenda. That was, in fact, the only point on which the then Prime Minister UNIDO praised, namely for the strong role Unido played in the development of the private sector. When I listen to Mr Knapen's speech, he forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u15	If it was a question, the answer is: I haven't forgotten. I see that there has been a function creep at UNIDO. If it was an observation, I'd like to take note of it. Mr. Chairman. As I said, UNIDO has been considerably reduced and adapted. We'll have to hand it to the organization. And yet the Dutch cabinet wants to cancel membership, because according to the cabinet the organisation is not sufficiently relevant and not sufficiently effective. If you put UNIDO's activities on Dutch policy, they do not really fit very well for the spearheads that the Netherlands has. Then UNIDO is of limited relevance. Now that in itself does not have to be a reason and should not be a reason to leave a UN organisation, because the mere existence of multilateral organisations can and is often a value in itself. The cabinet will agree with me, I suppose. But UNIDO is also not particularly effective. It is not very large and has little flexibility due to all kinds of earmarked subsidies. Above all, UNIDO does work that nowadays NGOs and private actors can do better, more flexible and with less overhead and also do plenty. Technical assistance in the development of industries is now widely available, specialized, efficient and competent on the ground. A textile factory in Bangladesh will hire the appropriate consultancy to ensure that the paint water is cleaned, that the building meets the requirements and that there is shelter for the children of employees. And a customer of that textiles in the Netherlands we will be able, may and, as far as I am concerned, must appeal to what he or she buys. No human being thinking about UNIDO. In this respect, time has passed on to the organisation, even though the organisation now advocates sustainable and inclusive industrial development. In fact, in the European Union, we are busy getting back some of the industry, now that we have discovered that innovation and competitiveness are seriously affected by the fact that we have moved in the direction of the services sector. Reindustrialisation is again a criterion in European matching funds. Anyone who realizes this must realize that UNIDO really stands for an era that is over. Madam President. Our group and my party have international links. But that also means, in our view, that you must be aware of the demands and dynamics of this time. In our view, pro or counter membership is not a litmus test for pro or counter-international cooperation either. We therefore support the cabinet's proposal to end UNIDO's membership, but above all we look forward to a decision being taken on the left or right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. Does one of the members still wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. Then I'll look at the minister. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u17	I'm asking for a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u18	Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes, until 3:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u19	I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Madam President. It's an honor to be here. It is my first debate in the First Chamber, and directly on a relevant and important subject: cooperation with UNIDO and the legislative proposal to terminate the Statute. I have noted with some surprise that this has been debated for years, both in the Second and in the First Chamber. I can honestly tell you, as a former UN official, in which I have worked system-wide, that I believe that no one could have known that the Netherlands would spend so much time on this. This is a credit to this country and that shows the commitment to multilateralism and the commitment of the Netherlands not only to be a member, but also to work for improvement and reinforcement, to always make a critical voice, but also to move towards a solution. Sometimes this is not always the desired result for the international organisation, in this case possibly UNIDO, but it is a signal. The question now is: what is the signal that the Netherlands wants to send? That is also the question I have asked myself. I have carefully noted and heard all your interventions. Many of your arguments are very valid. I will highlight a few that have hit me mostly and which I will also consider. The issue of relevance. Industrial development is indeed a highly developed theme since the creation of UNIDO. UNIDO has always played a role and contributed, sometimes more successful and sometimes less. The link to development cooperation goal number 9 and other themes is of course extremely relevant, especially since accepting the framework of the SDGs. This is important for a multilateral thinking and operating Netherlands, both for history and for the future. I would like to say first of all that I agree with the importance of continuity, predictability and transparency in our decision-making, and of the role played by the Netherlands, which has always played and wants to play in a UN that is a whole, that is coherent, and that operates differently in a world where the threats, but also the opportunities, are different in terms of peace and security, development cooperation and, of course, human rights. I would therefore like to refer to the importance that we do not, in fact, use a UN à la carte or the cafeteria model, as Mr Lintmeijer called it. We want to focus on effectiveness, efficiency and results, but above all impact. That is also a question I will come back to when it comes to the downside of UNIDO. A final but very relevant consideration concerns the whole process of reform initiated by Secretary-General António Guterres. I was part of that in the early stages. This is a combination, reform or revision of the UN agendas in the areas of peace and security and development cooperation, or rather international cooperation, in order to achieve jointly the objectives and to focus on preventing human rights violations and future conflicts and prevention, adaptation and mitigation of the consequences of climate change, for example. It is also always about providing opportunities for others to improve living and living conditions, for those in the less developed or least developed countries. Some of you have pointed out that it is very important that we have lobbied hard to get a non-permanent seat on the Security Council. The signal that we will continue to work in all areas of the UN is, of course, important. It's a voice of multilateralism. This has also earned us votes as a reliable partner who is active in all areas where the UN works, around the UN and beyond. As you know, the Secretary-General António Guterres will be coming to the Netherlands in December. That will be a good time to discuss with him the position of this Chamber, but also the House of Representatives and, of course, the government, what expectations there are of his process of change or revision and how we can play a role in it, both at country level and at headquarters. These are all arguments that would speak for a continuation of our membership of UNIDO. As I said in the break to a few First Chamber members, sometimes it seems, if you wait long enough, if the problem solves itself or changes shape, so that there is a transformation. The Secretary-General's strategic agenda is extremely important. But I would also like to stress that my predecessor did not go ice in one night. Thought has indeed been given to the proposal, to its signal, its choice and timing, based on the priorities which the Netherlands has clearly communicated to the wider international partnership, UN and non-UN. There has also been a very careful look at the scorecards. I've always been on the receiving side of what score cards mean. I can assure you that there are often long talks, both with the steering organisation, UN or otherwise, and with the donor or partner country. The construction of scorecards is serious in terms of methodology. There is a qualitative and a quantitative element, but the question is also always what the relevance is for the policies that the country has set out and whether the objectives can be achieved in a different way. This is also an important question when it comes to using scorecards in the context of other policy considerations. In this case, the Netherlands, or the Ministry of Foreign Trade and OS, has twice come to the conclusion that UNIDO is not yet sufficiently relevant, in relation to other organisations, because these are moments of choice. When it comes to relevance, it is not only about the organisation's technical, specialised mandate, but also about whether there is an opportunity to achieve economies of scale, results and therefore impact through investment. This is an important consideration that has been played. I would also like to make the point that UNIDO still has too little focus from our point of view. Paper can be patient. The organisation's programme also still contains a wide range of small-scale or smaller activities that cannot lead directly to scaling up. The question asked by the British, which was also taken over by the Netherlands, is whether this is true for our money. We are talking about the material, but also the intangible through development transformation. That is the question, as is the question of whether other channels can be chosen. In this case, it is still concluded that UNIDO does not make a substantial contribution to the priorities set at this stage. I would like to come back to the word 'disfunctioning'. This seems to me to be a rather firm assumption, which must be underpinned by strategic and systematic moments of measurement. It's a big word. Based on the information I've seen in the scorecard, I can't put it in the affirmative. From my own experiences in the field, but this is only anecdotal, and not politically, I can say that I have seen UNIDO operate in many country situations; in crisis situations, in fragile states, but also in middle income countries. It is always waiting to see what UNIDO is working on and whether the quality is so predictable. That is an important element for every scorecard consideration, if you compare it with other UN organisations. Having said this does not mean that the withdrawal of membership should be the necessary step in terms of relevance, adaptation and dialogue. I have also taken good note of the importance of having a discussion with the Director-General of UNIDO in order to pursue further policy adjustment and to see where commitments can be made. However, it is not the case that the termination of UNIDO's statute means that Dutch industry, which has so far worked very independently in many countries and on many other fronts and has made a commercial or technical contribution, could no longer do so. That link doesn't exist one-on-one. Having heard the Chamber, having heard the arguments that are of political, institutional and multilateral value for the Dutch commitment, also in view of the timing of our joining the Security Council and the improvements that have indeed been shown by the Dutch scorecard, which then weighs on the negative arguments or the arguments that could mean a case for retiring, I would like to return with all these elements to the Rijksministerraad this Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u21	Thank you. You say: I would like to return to the National Council of Ministers this Friday. Does that mean you're asking us to keep the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u22	Yes, if that's slightly possible, then that's my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u23	I'll take a look at the room. Is everyone okay with that? At what point do you think you can inform us further, after the National Council of Ministers has considered this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. I do not know all the details when it comes to speed and the procedure there, but it is my intention to complete this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u25	I'm looking at the room again. Can the Chamber agree to that? I note that this is the case. Then the bill will be held. If I understand the Minister correctly, it is her intention to bring the matter to the Council of Ministers on Friday. We will find out as soon as possible afterwards which path it wishes to take with the legislative proposal. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u26	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u27	Mr. Dercksen still?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u28	Mr. Chairman. Of course, we also have a deadline for the new year. I would like to know when the bill will be returned to this Chamber for review after it has been dealt with in the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u29	Two things can happen. Whether the decision of the Council of Ministers is to withdraw the bill or not, it will not come back here, or it will be put to the vote, because after the third deadline we will not have a fourth deadline. It's two-and-a-half. A vote isn't that complicated. We can simply place it on the agenda. But I'd like to do it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u30	Madam President, it is my intention that you should have an answer within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-eerstekamer-6.u31	Thank you.
