ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The Marine Corps is of very high quality and can be used literally anywhere. It is not for nothing that they are called "men and women of steel." These men and women do the most dangerous missions. We respect that. We understand that they must be well trained and that they must therefore always be employable. That's why it scared D66 for a while when we read the headlines in De Telegraaf about cesspools that open. We understand that they must be well trained, but apparently a climbing expedition was undertaken last year for a select group of seven marines. We find it odd that this expedition cost seven people EUR 1 million, while other marines could not buy a winter coat for mountain training in Scotland. At least, the DOD couldn't even buy it. My question to the Minister is whether she can explain this. Does she think it is fair that this very exclusive trip for seven Marines cost EUR 1 million, i.e. almost €150,000 per person? And why did soldiers receive a temporary allowance during such an exclusive trip? Is that really necessary? Last year the Marine Corps celebrated its 350th anniversary. That was a festive year, including this expedition, but when we read in the newspaper about the abuses in the Marine Corps, I have a strong impression that the party culture has gone a bit crazy. D66 is in itself for parties, but this is going a little far. My question is whether the Minister will take disciplinary action. Is this the first time the Minister has heard of these outbursts and scandals or did she know about this before? Can it explain how this problem has arisen in recent years and to what extent there has been a breach of rules? Was military criminal law applicable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Belhaj for the questions she has put. I, too, have read De Telegraaf with special interest these days; you can imagine. Mrs Belhaj says it correctly: the Marine Corps is a high-quality corps. They are indeed called the "men of steel." Recently, women have also been able to join. Mrs Belhaj has made a very good observation. The Marines are well trained and employable everywhere. Let me begin with the so-called abuses to which Mrs Belhaj refers. The fact that the corps is of high quality goes without saying. Let me start by saying that it is not that, because the corps is of high quality, the Marines are also kind of saints. That's not to prejudice abuses or integrity violations. A Marine is also by definition not the ideal son-in-law. They can be used everywhere and indeed, as Mrs Belhaj and I have just said, they are called'men of steel'. It is true that there are incidents and abuses in an organisation of more than 55,000 people that reflects society. So that goes way beyond the Marine Corps. And many young people who do not always, or necessarily, have a self-disciplining ability, certainly not in the beginning. We have talked about this before in other debates. I also get a report like this every day during the morning bed. I can say this isn't always pleasant. Mrs Belhaj's question is: does the Defense Department have a high priority? The answer to that is yes, and this should preferably include unspoken behavior. The policy is therefore crystal clear. When abuses occur, they are always mentioned. Incidents are always investigated and, where necessary, disciplinary action, or even criminal action. Now I am going a little far to go into all these individual incidents as they are expressed in De Telegraaf. However, I can say that the incidents, mainly from 2015, are known to us. They have all been examined and, where necessary, measures have been taken. However, I do not want to go into the article entirely, because there is also a nuance on a case-by-case basis, as explained in the newspaper. This does not alter the fact that it has reached the newspaper, that infringements have been committed and that measures have been taken where necessary. However, not someone was sent home in connection with an affair, but because she was pregnant and a pregnant person cannot be on the air. I can give you a few more examples. As for the mountain climbing, I have to say that I myself asked questions about it internally when I first heard about it. It is not that every exercise or expedition is registered with me and that I give individual approval from every arm of the force. So I asked questions about it. At that time I was briefed on why certain expeditions have a much broader look than it seems logical for seven participants. That was the number you heard in the first place. There were 22, but that doesn't matter now. Action in the high mountains has specific challenges. The Knowledge Centre Military Action under Extreme Conditions can therefore gather a lot of knowledge from various sources. Experience requires that circumstances are experienced and experienced in person. Think of altitude sickness, work with oxygen and stuff like that. Specific requirements and effects apply as regards equipment. Mrs Belhaj must therefore see this expedition in a broader context. To be honest with you, yesterday, I learned about the costs. I think the Admiralty Council would make a different decision if it had to make the decision again. In this case, however, phased costs have been incurred and at some point it has been decided to continue the expedition anyway. Moreover, it is not the case that marines did not have winter jackets at their disposal for their training in the Scottish Highlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	I hear what the Minister says, but there are two messages in it. On the one hand, the message is that it is not very happy that it had to cost 1 million. On the other hand, the message is that it was very much needed. I take it from the first signal given by the Minister, namely that it is very special, especially at this time, when it is so hard for the defence industry and it is not even possible to buy the most basic items to make this choice. Would the Minister like to give us further information on the way in which this decision is taken? Actually, it bothers me that she wasn't just asked in front as a minister: gosh, do you think it's a good idea to do this, given the many shortages in the Defense Department? I have three additional points. It is very nice that people use the modern means of communication Twitter, although not necessarily in all cases. The Twitter account of the Royal Navy contained the following Twitter message: "One-sided article in @telegraaf about Marine Corps that does not do justice to reality. Integrity is a priority in the Navy and incidents are being dealt with. There is no need to fear procedures." My question is what exactly is meant by this reaction. Why has it been so hasty to send such a message in response to this newspaper article when it comes to serious cases? Why is this done with the remark that this journalism is unsophisticated? What does the remark "no need, fear of procedures" mean? I understand the Minister says she has such a pile every morning. The point is that the Defense Department is not a regular employer. There's a lot expected of people. They must be able to be summoned and that means you must have extreme discipline. The fact that the Minister says that young people are also working and that this sometimes happens on the 50,000 people is not acceptable to me. I would like the Minister to reconnect how she thinks this should be handled so that these boys and girls do stick to discipline. That's what you're asked to do when you're in the DOD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	I want to make no mistake about the latter. Of course, a lot is asked of you when you work in the DOD. You have to be employable, anytime, anywhere, but that doesn't mean you're on call day and night. Mrs Belhaj knows as well as I do that there are different forms of preparedness and that soldiers are also sometimes free. However, I have just emphasised that Defence has a high priority in terms of integrity. Let us not try to fool each other over the question of what integrity Defence should be; Defence must be integrity. I also said that defense is a reflection of society. I just heard my colleague say on another subject on request that he cannot guarantee that he can prevent anything. You can't stop that. You can only make sure that in the organisation everything is aimed at reporting any abuses. Incidents shall be investigated and, where necessary, disciplinary action or even criminal action shall be terminated. I can make no mistake about that. That's what communication is like. We have yesterday after the publication in the newspaper and also today... We also do not know who is sitting here in his talking chair. I don't care about the person either. Maybe this has a completely different cause, or there are other reasons for this. That is precisely what the Commander of the Armed Forces spoke to the Commander of the Sea Force today. We want, of course, to see what is going on here and whether there is a more structural problem under this. The question is why the Royal Navy posted that tweet this morning. I didn't analyze that tweet. I have just said that some nuances can still be made with regard to this article and that this nuance need has been missed. I therefore believe that the Royal Navy has responded to that. There's nothing wrong with that. Let's talk about that expedition one more time. If Mrs Belhaj thinks that the Minister of Defence is expressing an opinion on any exercise or expedition or gives prior approval, she ignores the responsibility of the operational commanders. I do not wish to prejudice that. This expedition faced me because he had to deal with the status of forces agreement. I then asked for a few more things, because I had doubts about the necessity of this. I have been persuaded of the need. At the same time, I have already said that if something is phased out and costs are incurred, you will at some point reach a point where it is unwise to reverse those investments. Then it's lost money. I expect the Admiralty Council would have made a different weighting if he had once again been in charge of the balancing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	Unfortunately, I'm not happy with the answers. I think I will come back to this in general consultation with Staff or ask written questions. The Minister has not clarified many of the questions I have asked. That is important for both the defence and the people in the country who are wondering what is going on there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs. Belhaj knows where to find me. I would, however, like to be careful not to have too much case-thinking both in plenary and in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. My group does not dispute that the majority of marines work hard and are, above all, honest. What my group deeply regrets, and also finds very striking, is that many of them feel obliged to press, to give information to the press several times in a row. So they do not feel heard internally or do not agree with the solutions. This leads me to suspect that there is a lack of internal business culture. I'd like to hear how the Minister sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	It's obvious that someone looks like they're sitting on their talking chair. That's what I just said. I'm not interested in the person who brought these stories out. What interests me much more, like the PVV Group, is what's behind it. There can be many causes or very different motives. It could be someone who's personally disappointed, but it could also expose a wider culture. The Commander of the Armed Forces spoke about this with the Commander of the Sea Force this morning. That's what's being looked at right now. I can't make it clear now, but I have the same questions: what exactly is behind this, is it a structural problem, is it an individual or are we talking about something much bigger and should we take action on it through our leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	Hanging on to that last one. The article has two parts: the incidents described and the suggestion that there is insufficient corrective action. The minister says: we don't know, we're going to investigate. Is it reported to the Chamber at any time whether or not there is a structural problem underneath it? If it is a structural problem, I think we should also do something structural about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm sorry, can you repeat the question one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	The question is simply whether it is reported to the Chamber at any time whether there is an underlying structural problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'd be happy to. Let us come back to this in a subsequent debate, for example with the next AO Staff, because then there is always the P-report. I admit I'm going to make a separate paragraph about it. Maybe that's nice for Mrs. Belhaj, too. I think you'll get another one out of my head before the summer. I don't deal with individual cases, because then I'm busy on a daily basis. This also applies to all ministries which are large and executive. There are incidents every day. Then I'm not going to report every incident to the Chamber, but the image from the feedbacks of the C-ZSK and the CDS will be included in the P-report.
