ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u1	Madam President. You're gonna have to find out as parents that your 19-year-old son committed suicide in his room thanks to two grams of preservative obtained through Cooperative Last Will. It's gonna happen to you that your friend died under strange circumstances. Someone had secretly stirred 2 grams of preservative in his coffee, received via Cooperative Last Will. The SGP considers it an irresponsible plan that the cooperative launched in recent weeks. After six months, members of that club are given the name of a preservative that can be used as a lethal agent. Even if you use the term "dignified death" a thousand times, we see it as unworthy and irresponsible. And even if, unlike the SGP, you want to give more room for suicide aid, this isn't the way to go, is it? The danger of abuse alone is obvious here, isn't it? There is no review of one's psychic condition, there is no guarantee to prevent the drug from falling into the wrong hands, there is no need for an aid worker or anyone else to use, and so it can also be used to kill another. The SGP is also deeply concerned about the effects of these plans on psychologically ill people struggling with suicidal thoughts. Is this not also an undermining of the whole policy to reduce the number of suicides? The cooperative is proud to say that this medicine would be legal. What is the Minister's opinion on this? Surely it is completely different to use a means of preservation than to use it as a lethal agent? What is the Minister going to do to prevent this plan from becoming a reality? Is he at least prepared to prevent the free availability of this preservative as a lethal medicine? Finally, is the Minister prepared to examine whether the cooperative itself can be tackled as a result of this irresponsible action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij commented on the announcement made by Coöperatie Laatste Wil about the availability of a means of suicide. As Mr van der Staaij is undoubtedly aware, government policy is aimed at preventing suicide as much as possible and at removing people who are considering suicide. We also conduct targeted campaigns for this purpose. The Code of Criminal Law provides that the person who intentionally assists or provides him with the means to do so shall commit an offence if the suicide actually follows. Now a number of questions from Mr Van der Staaij deal with this particular case. He asks me if the action of Last Will is correct, if I am going to intervene and if I am going to investigate this cooperative. As Mr Van der Staaij knows, in a rule of law it is not the minister who decides on persecution, it is not the minister who judges. It is the Public Prosecutor's Office that decides on prosecution, so in a case like this, too, the Public Prosecutor will have to weigh the facts and assess whether it is going to prosecute. Should the Public Prosecutor's Office decide to do so, it is up to the court to decide whether to follow measures. The legislative framework is clear. Individual cases are not assessed by the Minister but by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you for the Minister's response. In any case, I am pleased that he made it clear at the outset that government policy is aimed at preventing suicide and preventing suicide. 113 Suicide prevention is also supported in this context, which also turned against these plans. But I think that the Minister is then very easily ignoring the fact that the government is now asking for an opinion on whether it is legal. 'Cause that's the thesis. We don't always have to wait for prosecution to say we don't think we can. I also remember discussions about motorcycle gangs. Can't what they're doing or not? Then we don't say: that's just up to the judge and that's all we're talking about. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he has his own opinion on it. Or is he actually saying, "I don't know if this is possible?" Or: it's a very clear plan and we just tell you what it is? Can this be done in the Minister's view, so is my simple question. Then there's my follow-up question. If a particular preservative is announced that has a completely different purpose and is used in this way, then it is the question, even if you do not want to talk about it criminally, whether you want to wait patiently. Or do you say: but that is not the intention and from the protection of life we as a government have a duty to say at least that a means intended for conservation purposes cannot be used to kill yourself, especially with all the risks of abuse? I would therefore very much like to hear a further response from the Minister to these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr Van der Staaij is indeed addressing a very important socially sensitive issue, namely suicide and suicide aid. The guarantee of the rule of law is precisely in order to ensure that the rule of law operates in a pure way when we are talking about very sensitive issues where we all have images and opinions. Mr Van der Staaij asks me what I think of this substance and what I think of it. It's an individual case. It's a specific resource. The Minister of Security and Justice is responsible for the legislation and for the proper functioning of the legal system in the Netherlands but not for the assessment in individual cases. The Public Prosecutor's Office in the Netherlands has all the instruments necessary to assess an individual case such as this and will undoubtedly do so when it sees reason for it. The D.A.'s office will know very well how to get to court. But it is not up to the Minister to judge in individual matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u6	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr President. That is the criminal law side of the matter, which I have just said is too easy for me. But then there's the other point. If there is now the fame that such a cooperative is going to tell people that such a remedy is available, then the Minister cannot keep looking away and saying: are we waiting? Then there is also a government responsibility to say: but that is not the intention, we are going to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u8	That too requires great precision, in the sense of: that is not the issue. This calls for a very clear assessment of what is going on in every particular case. The Code of Criminal Law indicates: suicide aid leading to suicide. Whether that is the case in this particular case or in any other case is not for the Minister to judge but for the Public Prosecutor and the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u10	Madam President. I have rarely seen it as quiet in the Chamber during oral Question Time as it is now. And I understand that, because this is a subject that is so profound. I also understand that the Minister does not really give the answers to Mr Van der Staaij's questions. This is so important. Could we not deal with this subject much more extensively at another time instead of now in 15 minutes? This is something that a lot of Dutch people have to deal with. I do not think it is appropriate to take this off in Question Time in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u11	This is a procedural remark. It is a subject that concerns many people, and that should also be discussed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u12	In fact, my question follows on from Mr Van der Staaij's story, but goes into a bit more detail about the fact that if this product were to come onto the market, there would really be a way of directing suicide without the intervention of, for example, a treating doctor. I am very curious how the ruler looks at that fact, especially in the context that this is such a sensitive subject. Because of the way this product would be available, however you turn or turn it, there is still some standardisation. Does the Minister consider this desirable without the intervention of a psychiatrist or a psychologist in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mrs Marijnissen also stressed the importance and sensitivity of the subject. She then asked me for a ruling on that plea. What drug? We don't even know that. We know from publications that it might be a preservative. While we agree with each other, I have heard no difference between the speakers, Mr President, that it is an important subject that calls for careful consideration, and I, as Minister, am asked to make a statement here. I have had a lot of debates here about the rule of law with people who are concerned about it. On such an important subject, I cannot be asked to give an opinion on a specific matter in Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u14	I agree with everyone that this is a vulnerable and, at the same time, a very interesting subject. My question concerns the procedure to be followed in order to obtain the remedy. I understand you have to be 18 years old and be a member of the cooperative for six months. The cooperative then provides the product without further testing and does not know who will receive it. You also have to make agreements with other people, so there is one person who asks, but then there are agreements in a group. That could be 10 people, 20 people; we don't know. In short, the safety of people is at stake here, or at least the sense of security of people and thus the sense of security in our society. I ask the Minister not to come up with such bureaucratic answers, but to respond to them. Speak from your heart, Minister, because this is where people are really going to lose their sense of security. We don't know what hands this is gonna end up in...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mrs Dik-Faber is failing herself by blaming the Minister for Security and Justice for giving technocratic answers when he stands up for the functioning of the rule of law. Mrs Dik-Faber, too, then asks what the Minister thinks of this particular case, on which Mrs Dik-Faber must also agree with me that it is settled in a rule of law that this is for the Public Prosecutor and the judge. That is not a technocracy; we have arranged this for very good reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u17	Then the lawyers will be watching again. I am very pleased that the Minister has indicated that we do not have a solution to this with a brief blow. We need to see it through. I would ask the Minister if he would like to have what we have in our code reviewed or reviewed. Article 46 deals with criminal preparations, but this does not apply to Article 2.94 which makes them punishable. Does the Minister intend to give up an analysis and write a letter to the Chamber on this matter? Then we can also meet Mr Krol's request to ensure that we can debate this. We need to look at how we consider this to be the CDA, if desired, that important criminal law can be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u18	I appreciate in itself the search for a careful procedure and thus the creation of support and also rest in the discussion. I do not think this makes any sense until more is known about the substance and a possible decision to prosecute. Again, we are all responding to press releases on an important subject. I would like to say that, as soon as there is more information on these aspects, there will be a letter in which both articles of the law will be weighed again. Now I really think it's too short a day for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u19	I keep excellent memories of the debates with the Minister to which there were constitutional elements. I have always been very grateful for the way in which the Minister positioned himself in this regard. But there's something more going on here than just the state-law dimension. Given the way in which this is presented and the low-threshold availability that is previewed, is the Minister not actually a little concerned that this puts vulnerable people in incredibly dangerous positions? Doesn't he think that there's a threat to the rule of law here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u20	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Bishop for his kind words. Certainly, I do not necessarily look with concern, but with great focus on the question: what is happening here and remains within the limits of the rule of law? Again, this is an incredibly important subject, in which each of us has his thoughts. I realize how incredibly important this is. I also realise that the institutions of our rule of law, the Public Prosecutor's Office as an institution that may investigate and bring criminal offences to justice and the judge who is independent of them, are fully capable of acting if necessary. They have shown this in the past. After all, there are many judgments on these kinds of issues. So I know that the institutions of our rule of law are working well. I also know that our image is incomplete. We don't know what the cure is. There have been announcements, but those are newspaper reports. That is precisely why I believe that I should just let the institutions of the rule of law do their job. As I have just indicated to Mrs Van Toorenburg, as soon as we know more about this specific case, I am happy to return to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-2.u21	Thank you.
