ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u1	There are two colleagues who are making their maiden speech today: Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP and Mr De Groot on behalf of D66. Mr De Groot was just in the Chamber, but I think he'll be back soon. I want to maintain the use that we have here in this house: there must be no interference during a maiden speech. After Mr De Groot's maiden speech, I would like to suspend my congratulations. Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals is the first speaker. Speaking time is three minutes per speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is the most densely stocked country in the world. Nowhere in the world are as many animals on such a small surface as in our little country. This raises major problems: there are risks to public health, there are threats to nature and environmental objectives are not met. This isn't new. In 2007, former CDA Minister Cees Veerman, who was the Minister of Agriculture, said: this system has stalled; we import the feed, we export the animals and we stay stuck with the mess, the manure. It is not for nothing that Brabant already talks about the stun bag of the Netherlands. There are so many animals and so many manure factories that it literally makes people sick. Former Minister Veerman was not the first former executive to warn us about the system that was stalled after his resignation. But all this time it was waiting for a driver who, while he or she was in office, had the courage to take responsibility and say: this is no longer possible. I see there's a question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yeah, I can see that, too. Mr Geurts is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr Veerman, CDA member and former Minister, was quoted. But I would ask Mrs Ouwehand, if she quotes anyone, to do so completely. After these words, Mr Veerman said that he was proud of the Dutch farmers and that they were able to meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u5	The nuance the CDA is trying to make here, ironically, touches exactly the point where it crashes. On the one hand, the problems are acknowledged. On the other hand, one does not dare to make the choices that go with it. I will continue my speech. Fortunately, there was a woman who dared to do this. Alderman Joan Veldhuizen in Bladel said that I cannot take responsibility for ignoring the risks to public health that will result from the expansion of livestock. That extension was planned in the municipality where she was alderman. It is time to take an example of the courage of this driver. We have seen that even here in this House, after the abolition of the milk quota, a majority of the Chamber still ignored all the signals. We have been warned of an unbridled growth of the dairy herd. That which this alderman warned of has also happened: blind trusting in the technique of manure processing would save us... and on the self-regulating capacity of the sector. We can now see the big problems that farmers have been brought into. Thousands of cows go to slaughter, while at the same time we import hundreds of thousands of calves. There is no logic in agricultural policy, says Trouw very carefully. That is the result of the lack of responsibility. It's time we took responsibility. Public health is under threat. Q fever killed thousands of people. There have been dozens of deaths and several people are still very ill. If you live near livestock farms, you could have lung problems. We are warned that resistant bacteria affect all of us. The manure problem is untenable. Even the Planning Office for the Environment has given up the courage and said: then we need to relax the standards. Apparently, the problem of manure cannot be dealt with in such a way that it remains within control. Nature and the environment are under threat. I have not even mentioned animal welfare, the climate and the future prospects for farmers. The question today is: is the Secretary of State prepared to present a comprehensive analysis of all the problems related to the size of the livestock, so that the next cabinet and the Chamber can make the corresponding choices to protect public health, nature, the environment, animal welfare and farmers themselves from this disastrous increase in scale?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr. Chairman. It almost seems that we are going to have a debate here in the Chamber on the resignation of an alderman in a very small municipality in North Brabant. But that is not the case. We are dealing with a situation that can be seen as a model for disruption in parts of the rural area, where there is an enormous density of livestock industry. We will have to face that with each other. We will have to face up to the fact that the situation in Bladel can also occur in all kinds of other places in the region, such as Deurne. We are working together to maintain a situation that is actually unliving for people. With tears in my eyes, people tell me that they are dying to get out of that area, but that their house has become unsellable because of the smell and the flies. We will have to resolve this issue. One of the instruments that has been announced for some time is the proposal on cattle-intensive areas. It was first called the animal numbers law. I think it would be wise for the Secretary of State to send that bill to the Chamber. Then we can at least talk about it in the Chamber and perhaps decide how we should proceed with this. It is an urgent issue that we will have to deal with together. Is the Secretary of State prepared to send this bill to the Chamber? How's it going? Can we get it to the room yet? Does it still have to go to the Council of State? What's the status? Can the Secretary of State promise us that he will be willing to send it to the Chamber? In the end, we will have to move towards a shrinkage of livestock. That really is a matter of sensible policy. That is not to bully farmers, but to make it clear that, for example in pig farming, the sector will eventually have to shrink for the future of the sector itself. We are going to talk much more extensively about manure issues and so on, but the complexity of factors of public health, viability, manure surpluses and so on means that one should be so sensible as to say: a smaller livestock sector does have a future, but a large livestock sector, as we know it at the moment, does not have a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u7	If we want to focus on the environment, on health and on water quality, then the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance must recognise that there is not a direct link to animal numbers, but that there are much more factors like type of housing systems? Even free-range chickens, which we all consider to be very important, are more harmful to the environment and public health than chickens in the stalls. The simplicity with which it is said here that fewer animals is the solution is simply not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u8	I am sometimes surprised at the views of the Christian Union on these issues. I know the party as a green party, with an eye to climate, energy and environmental issues. That's why I keep wondering about that blind spot. There is a direct relationship between the excessive number of animals in the Netherlands and these kinds of issues. You can try to approach each individual dot with a technical solution. Then you get dense boxes with a manure plant next to it; fully industrialized agriculture. I cannot imagine that this would be an eye-catching prospect for a party such as the Christian Union. So I stand by my plea, including for the economy of the sector itself. I challenge Mrs Carla Dik-Faber to think with me on this point. When we are able to achieve a sensible, accompanied reduction in the agricultural sector, particularly in intensive livestock farming and, in particular, pig farming, the surplus of manure is reduced. Then the pressure on the manure market decreases. The cost of disposing of manure and transport will therefore be reduced. That means you can have a sector that has a better economic future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u9	I am surprised at the blind spot of the GroenLinks fraction. If you want farmers to invest in the environment, sustainability and animal welfare, there will have to be a certain development perspective for farmers. If you lock or shrink the companies, that perspective is just not there. That's when companies go down. Is that what the Green Left Group wants? Does she want beautiful family farms to fall over, which are the leading players in the world in the field of environment and sustainability? I just can't imagine. I would ask the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance to think along with the Christian Union. I ask her to solve the problems that exist in a real and realistic way. Don't let them choose air bike, as the GroenLinks spokesperson now puts it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u10	Could you give a brief response, Mr Grashoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u11	I have seen that, in its programme, the Christian Union Group is allocating almost EUR 1 billion for subsidies for manure fermentation. Let us imagine what other things you can do with that billion to bring about structural restructuring and improvement of the sector. Let us imagine how much misery and costs for the companies themselves, but also for the environment, we could avoid. Let us imagine how much we could do with this to prevent that rural area from being ruined. I also mention the enormous amount of transport movements. How are you supposed to manage all that together? There's no way to do that. We also have a huge range of issues. Public health issues are still not covered if another piece of technical solution has been found. Where does this particular belief in a totally technocratic solution come from? This solution is also very difficult to relate to animal welfare. The opposite scenario is one where you can offer opportunities with each other in a sensible way, especially for a future with an economic perspective for that family business. But then we should not choose the scale at which this is taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u12	Mr Graus also wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u13	It would be so wise if we could once cross this Rubicon and if we could say to each other: yes, there is a good future in the economic sense for our livestock farms, but on a smaller scale. Then this development contributes to the reduction of CO emissions, and to the reduction of nitrogen, phosphate and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u15	This is an integral approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr Graus, the interruptions must be short, and so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u17	I agree with everything that GroenLinks, but also what the Animal Party said about animal deaths and public health in connection with intensive livestock farming. But there's one thing I don't understand. There is no excess manure, but a shortage of manure. The motion on this issue was also supported by GroenLinks. That group supported my motion that we should see manure as a valuable building, soil and energy substance. Manure is rich in phosphate and phosphate is a primary life requirement. Mr Grashoff is one of the ambassadors of the circular economy. Then he can't say that there's a surplus of manure and that it's a waste?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u18	It's all about what scale you're talking about. Mr Graus also knows, of course, that we are currently transporting huge amounts of nitrogen and phosphate from one side of the world to the other. We would then use very expensive techniques to try to make unprocessed manure something that has value again. Moreover, my group, with Mr Graus, supports this type of degradation of this product insofar as there would be a residual problem of manure. We are going to talk about the latter in detail at another time. In this way, we would also encourage neglect of that product.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u20	But it starts with the observation that there is currently a situation in which unimaginably high costs are incurred for the disposal of manure. That is an economic principle that is currently common as it is in the agricultural market sector. These costs can no longer be borne by companies. An expansion of one company therefore competes away the other company. That is what is happening right now. I hope that Mr Graus agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr Grashoff, it must be shorter. Your answers are really too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u22	I am not talking about Mr Grashoff's answers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u23	No, but I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u24	Exactly. I'm more concerned with the following. I really hope that GroenLinks will support this in the future. I've already offered it to several regiments. You could even build stalls or fences of manure, for example at the Oostvaardersplassen. That's what they do in Africa. We all don't. Energy pallets, building, soil and energy materials, phosphates: please support me in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u25	That can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's a good line. We're running out of manure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u27	In the Netherlands we have an insane surplus of manure. Mr Graus knows that too. If you want to close loops on a regional scale, on a somewhat manageable scale, and if you would like to strengthen the economic perspective especially for the companies themselves, we are currently dealing with too many animals. At the same time, we are putting unacceptable pressure on the rural world, on the people there. I continue to make this plea in the direction of all my colleagues, because I believe that this should not be a left-wing debate but a debate on a responsible scale of the sector in relation to both the economic perspectives and the environmental and welfare perspectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u28	A question from the middle. Mr Grashoff talks about sensible shrinkage and he talks about the economic future. But is Mr Grashoff also aware that you need a critical mass to maintain livestock farming? I hear Mr Grashoff talking about shrinkage and saying that numbers should be reduced. I just have one question: how? When are pig farmers or poultry farmers going to make money in the future as Mr Grashoff sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u29	I think that is a good question, because that is exactly what Mr Geurts and I could share together, I think. We want a healthy economic future for the sector. We may not yet agree on the size of this sector, but on the sound economic situation. I hope to be able to convince Mr Geurts now, and otherwise at other times, that it is wiser to start from a smaller sector than from a smaller one. That does not mean that I entirely agree with Mr Geurts that you cannot do that with some kind of cold clean-up, saying tomorrow: sorry boys, all stop. This will have to be done in a very sensible and guided way, in such a way that you will have an ecologically and economically healthier sector and will finally remove the pressure on people in eastern Brabant and elsewhere in the Netherlands, so that there will be support for this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u30	When I listen that way, I think: interesting, that offers prospects. Only the practice is a little more uncomfortable. For every farmer who works in the Netherlands, family farms in livestock farming or otherwise in agriculture and horticulture, there are five families who eat with them, for example the suppliers and mention the whole range. How does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance see that? Mr Grashoff is talking about keeping fewer animals, but I think that is putting the critical mass at risk. This has an effect on employment, for example. How does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u31	We can talk about this in detail, but within the overall context of this situation you should look at the gradual reduction of the sector to a level where, for example, the processing of meat is also taking place to a large extent in the Netherlands. Let's be clear: half of all piglets just cross the border alive. In the horror slaughter house in Tielt there are probably also large numbers of Dutch pigs slaughtered. We have an economically unhealthy situation in that sector. I do not shine away from all kinds of issues, such as how to maintain vital local communities. I am happy to discuss this, but the starting point should be that we should come to a responsible cycle with each other in a decent, guided way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. As I said at the beginning of the debate, this is Mr Futselaar's maiden speech. There's no need to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u33	Thank you, Mr President, that is a relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u34	For me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u35	Mr. Chairman. A college crisis in the Brabant Bladel does not in itself give rise to a debate in this Chamber, as some colleagues pointed out last week. However, the reality is that the Netherlands knows many Bladels. Wherever intensive livestock farming runs against its borders, there are major problems. In a densely populated country like the Netherlands, intensive livestock farming runs almost everywhere against borders, if it is not already far over. We saw that again last week, not only in Bladel, but also in the report of the Plan Bureau for the Environment, which states that the existing manure policy is failing. Surface water remains too polluted, groundwater targets are not always met and there are indications of large-scale manure fraud in Brabant and Limburg. This poses a major threat not only to our nature, but also to the future of the whole sector. I would point out to the House that the Dutch derogation, the derogation that we are allowed to drive out more manure than elsewhere in Europe, depends on achieving the objectives of clean water. So taking no action now means running the risk of losing that derogation, with enormous consequences for the sector. I say this specifically to those parties who say that they are defending the interests of farmers, which means undermining the future of the same livestock sector. We're playing with fire. I would like a response from the Secretary of State to the planning agency's warnings regarding the derogation. We are also playing with fire when it comes to the health problems associated with intensive livestock farming. We see this in the relationship between animal concentrations and lung problems, which RIVM demonstrated last year. We see this in the fine dust problem, in the smell problem and in the victims of the Q fever, who, moreover, are still waiting for public compensation. Then it's still waiting for the next animal disease outbreak. We play with fire when it comes to our rural communities. The division in Bladel, where citizens face each other, is not an incident. A similar debate could have been held in recent years on Vroomshoop, Markelo, Dinxperlo, Rossum, Leudal or De Peel. The list is endless. Communities where neighbors face each other, communities that are torn apart. We are awaiting the cattle-proof areas Act. But with a missionary cabinet, we just have to see if it's gonna come and what it looks like. But I am sure the Secretary of State will want to say something about that. As far as the SP is concerned, this new Chamber is in favour of a firm law, which is based on the protection of public health. It is a fact for my group that a reduction in intensive livestock farming will be a result of this. But let us do so in a controlled manner, rather than chilly clean-up, so as to avoid dramatic situations such as those that are currently occurring in dairy farming. Those who study the stacks of reports, those who consult experts, those who talk to local residents, realize that intensive livestock farming cannot continue and will have to change fundamentally. The political reality is already there, only the political will is lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u36	Thank you for this passionate speech. After Mr De Groot I will suspend for congratulations. Mr De Groot has the floor on behalf of D66. He also has to keep his maiden speech and not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u37	Mr. Chairman. During the election campaign there was a debate in Deurne. There were 1,100 people in that room who were worried about their health. It was about intensive livestock farming. There were also 200 farmers coming, who were angry, because they were not invited to the debate. It took security guards to steer the debate. The director of the blood bank showed how you can tell by people's blood if they live near intensive livestock areas. The tension in the room was palpable. I thought at that point: if you allow such contradictions to exist as politics, then politics has failed. When you look back, you can have that first time, I hope you see a few things. First of all, you can see that local politics does not really want to burn their hands on this, referring to national politics. If the political will in the provinces is already there to do something about it, then you can see that they do not have enough tools in their hands to actually send for the people. The national politics that is here is very much polarized. CDA, VVD and SGP can be seen in practice to represent the short-term interests of the very last farmer. They want less rules. On the other hand, you see the Party for Animals that sometimes pretends you don't need farmers at all. The sector itself has come up with a number of plans to make it more sustainable. The League of Den Bosch is from 2011. A number of nice things have happened, but that has not yet led to results. The Rosenthal Commission from 2015 has also produced no visible results. I know from experience how difficult it is to do something from within the sector, even in a well-organised chain. What can intensive livestock farming promise that it will solve problems? If you take these three points together, you actually see a way of doing politics that leads to stagnation, frustration, fear of people for their health and a calving income model for farmers. It's actually a policy without perspective. Politics muffles the pit with rules, issue for issue. Meanwhile, we do not achieve the environmental goals, people worry about their health and farmers are burdened with rules on rules. Is the Secretary of State prepared to work together again during this period on a perspective for agriculture and horticulture, a perspective within the frameworks for the environment, nature, animal welfare, public health, but above all a perspective for farmers and gardeners themselves? As far as the D66 group is concerned, the perspective lies in circular agriculture. We are at the beginning of a new development that young farmers are already picking up and which Wageningen University also comes with. Let our food production go with the knowledge-based economy, in the circular economy. Let's develop perspective together and then see if we can remove the unnecessary legal constraints, whether we can stimulate innovation and whether we can help farmers get there, in balance with their environment. Last week, in the debate on the future of European agricultural policy, the Secretary of State also said that he wanted to involve circular agriculture. In order to prepare for this, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to indicate what legal, concrete restrictions there are in order to close cycles on a larger scale. I'd like an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u38	Thank you for your maiden speech, but also for your call for cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u39	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u40	We will continue with the 30-member debate on intensive livestock farming. I give the floor to Mr Graus on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u41	Madam President. This debate is about intensive livestock farming and the summum: the mega-stables. I believe that we are closer to each other in the Chamber than we think, but there are often motions where the considerations are incorrect, where the findings are factually incorrect or where the dictatorships are unworkable and unworkable. Then it just stops, so you can't support a motion like that. We in the PVV are in any case in favour of the dismantling of intensive livestock farming. I mean the bio-industry and also the mega-stables. We have always supported a moratorium on the construction of mega-stables. We are in favour of maintaining small family and family farms, extensive livestock farming, and also organic farmers. I really believe this is the future. Again, there will have to be a better earning model for those people. They're forced to keep more animals. That is why I have also adopted a motion on a better earning model, at the expense of the retail sector. After all, the retailers are laughing at themselves. They make beautiful decorations with the products of our farmers and in the meantime they don't get the money for it. They do not earn more than a few decades ago. Apart from the animal suffering, think of the lack of, for example, grazing........................................................................................................................................................................... The GGD and RIVM have been warning for years about health problems for residents, such as even reduced lung function and increased risk of severe lung disease. It is now also being investigated whether the health problems are caused by particulate matter, zoonotic agents, derived from animals, i.e. micro-organisms or parts thereof. Also, locals appear to carry livestock-related MRSA bacteria a little more often. I refer to research that has recently been done, for example livestock farming and health care residents, a research in collaboration with Utrecht University and Wageningen University, officially I have to say "WUR" and the Dutch Institute for Health Research. The PVV has not only called in recent years, but has also come up with solutions to preserve the ancient Dutch farms, landscapes and animal breeds. For example, we have always been against the suffocating regulations from the EU, which often hinders grazing. Take Natura 2000. Many farmers were thus hindered in terms of grazing and the relief of animals. We were against that. We have said that there is no surplus manure. After all, we have phosphate shortages. It's a primary need for life. Manure is a valuable building, soil and energy substance. There is also an adopted Graus motion, hence my interruption with Mr Grashoff of GroenLinks. Finally, the motion was passed. We need to extract manure and use the valuable phosphates from animal stool. As long as our farmers are the largest net contributors per head of the population, and certainly not the net recipients, we must not allow them to carry out their money in, for example, former Eastern bloc countries, where they still have to invent the word 'animal welfare'. That's a real shame. In fact, our farmers, who are often much better off with animals than farmers in many other countries, are financing their own competition. Of course you can't. The most important thing is how to get back to the small family and family businesses with a better income model. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. How's he gonna do that? In the future, farmers will also be able to keep fewer animals and there may be an end to intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u43	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations to Mr Futselaar and Mr De Groot. Enjoy this moment, because after this you will be getting interruptions at all times. Especially given your input, I think that's going to happen. Mr. Chairman. Are we going to have a debate today on whether livestock farming in the Netherlands is allowed to hold its place, or are we going to have a debate on how to keep livestock farming in the Netherlands? Today, the CDA is keen to debate how to maintain livestock farming and hopes that we will all stand alongside the farmers' families who make their living. I cannot escape the impression that there is a lot going on against livestock farming. Just this week, a Brabant deputy from SP-house said that he finds the way farmers produce worse than the drug dumping in Brabant. What does the Secretary of State think of such a ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u44	I've got to get something off my chest. You can stand next to the farmers and family farms. I think their existence is very important. But you can't start the argument and talk about "a big deal" against the farmers without standing next to those residents, including from Brabant, who have been affected by the Q fever. I like to get a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u45	I am not even at the end of the three-minute speech, so Mrs Kuik will hear about it in a moment. And certainly, the importance of public health is also an important issue, but I will come back to that in a moment. However, I remain in favour of the words that I have said about a hetze. Has Mrs. Chicken of the week seen the advertisement of Wake Animal? Does she know what that means in livestock farming and what it means for the families that work there? They're turned against each other by an ad like that. Does Mrs. Kikik support such an ad? I would actually like to ask that, but I know it is not customary to ask a question back in an answer to an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u46	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u47	That is often a way of getting away from the subject at hand. On the one hand, there is the importance of the farmer. We all benefit from the farmer because we eat meat, cheese, or eggs, or because we wear leather. On the other hand, we cannot deny that there really is a huge problem in certain areas of the Netherlands in particular. This applies, among other things, to Brabant, where Mr Geurts as a CDA member often comes. We constantly run into this house that we are unable to find a balance between the two. This has been the case in recent years, but if we are not careful, we will run into it in the future with a new cabinet. I expected Mr Geurts to put these two interests together in his first term. The fact that he doesn't disappoints me already.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u48	I can't help disappointing Mrs. Chicken. That's a sense of Mrs. Chicken. I don't think I can take that away either. I also find it very special that everything is allowed in this house, but indicate that peasant families feel hurt in the depths of their souls. As a representative of the people, I have the right to perform that sound in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u49	No, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u50	I'm allowed to interrupt three times, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u51	Since when did we agree to that? This is your final reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Geurts is allowed in this house. I only ask him to take this debate seriously. Stand not only for the interests of farmers, but precisely for a solution that the whole of the Netherlands is looking forward to. Just as we can no longer deny the problems of gas extraction in Groningen, we can no longer deny this huge problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think you made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u54	I'm a little attracted. If a deputy in Brabant finds that the consequences of intensive livestock farming for public health in Brabant are greater than the consequences of dumping drugs, I think he is right and that this is not so much a big deal as a factual observation. If Mr Geurts speaks of 'a what', does he mean, for example, the report of the Planning Office for the Environment, which makes it very clear that limits have been reached in the area of manure and that it cannot go on like this? Is that part of the hotshot, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u55	To explain what "a hetze" is, I have just mentioned a recent example of which I specifically referred to: an advertisement by Wakker Dier, which is only after one thing, namely to hunt down the livestock industry in the Netherlands, no more and no less. Wake-up Animal tries to stoke up livestock in this way and turn people against each other. I think that is a very serious matter. That's one. Two: I note that Mr Futselaar agrees with the Brabant deputy of the SP house. Let us record that right away, because that is just what Mr Futselaar said. The third point is that, of course, we must also try to get together. There has just been a nice debate with GroenLinks, in which I have asked a number of clarifying questions about the content of GroenLinks' input. I also asked: how?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u56	What I said about the deputy is that I agree that the impact of intensive livestock farming in Brabant on public health is greater than the consequences of dumping drugs. Looking at the Q fever, I think you'll find quite quickly that that's not an opinion and not a hell of a thing, but an objective fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u57	A common phenomenon is that when a pain point is hit, you quickly blame other people for what you have actually done yourself. The CDA is now accusing Wake Animal of setting up farmers' families against each other, but that is exactly what the CDA has done by not having the courage to choose the family business but to say that anything is possible. That's how you know the big boys are gonna make it and the little ones are gonna lose it. I ask Mr Geurts whether the CDA stands here today for the interests of livestock farming or for the interests of farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u58	The CDA stands for the community and for that we have been elected as the CDA group. Mrs Ouwehand is trying to create a false contradiction between farmers and livestock farming. There's a connection between the two. Farmers take good care of their animals. I don't see that contradiction either. We are representatives of the people and we must make a broad assessment of all the things that come along; so will the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u59	Funny enough, Mr Geurts just confirms the phenomenon that I described, which is to accuse me of false contradictions while the CDA does nothing else. I ask that question because the alderman of CDA-huis in Bladel gave the clear honest answer to the question of Nieuwsuur about 25 years from now in Bladel: well, substantially fewer farms. A lot of animals, didn't they? Yes, yes, more animals, but substantially fewer farms, was the answer. Isn't that the CDA's honest story? It would adorn Mr Geurts if he dared to tell that in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u60	I'm trying to explain to myself where this question came from. Over the years, we have seen a decline in the number of companies. We can talk about this long and wide, but that is just a fact. For example, we read in the reports of the ING bank that in Brabant another 3,500 companies are expected to disappear. I'm sorry, but it's a given. But then a quote is taken from an interview. The alderman said a lot more. I've got all these quotes in a row. I will not read them all out in this 30-member debate, but it is, of course, much more balanced than Mrs Ouwehand makes it appear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u61	No, the CDA is going around saying here: we are a party to the farmers. For example, those who really dare to make the choices that go with it say honestly that our farmers do not save that production on the world market, that we lose farmers, because that is the trend of more and more animals and fewer and fewer farmers. They want to put an end to that. The CDA puts those parties in the position that they are not for the farmers. That's exactly what we're standing for. The Animal Party wants more farmers, and that is what we are achieving by focusing on small-scale regional circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'd like to respond to that. The Animal Party and Mrs Ouwehand first say that they want more animal welfare, but also that the stables should not increase. Mrs Ouwehand and the Animal Party say first of all that they want less environmental degradation, but also that the animals should not be kept in stables. Then there is only one conclusion, namely that it wants livestock farming to disappear from the Netherlands. Then tell me that honest story. Don't accuse me of a one-sided story. I'm also trying to put the senses of the peasant families here. That's okay, isn't it? What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr Geurts spoke of a slogan against livestock farming. There are, of course, extremes and I will not defend them, but if you peel them off, you have to find that the contradictions in the local communities in East Brabant are growing and growing. At the same time, we must establish that, and I hope that Mr Geurts agrees with me that the earning model in pig farming is bad. If you add these two things together, if you find that the pressure on the environment is too great and if you find that farmers resort to manure fraud to avoid the high costs of manure disposal, then Mr Geurts should agree with me that we should work together to find solutions that favour local communities and not just one-sided farmers there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u64	I agree very quickly with Mr Grashoff that if there are problems, we must come up with solutions that are in the interests of both parties, just as two parties. This is, of course, broader in practice. Mr Grashoff is involved in fraud. Fraud is never gonna make sense. Period! You have to fight them with all your power. I'd like to direct that question to the cabinet. What's the Cabinet doing right now? We have asked for a letter on this matter this week and the answer to that question comes naturally. I indicated in an interruption that we should also look at the critical mass. You can't just shrink. I have just heard Mr Grashoff say something about this. He used the words "smart shrinkage." It is the first time I have heard it in the Chamber from GroenLinks and I think it is a revelation. So we're gonna see how we can get on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u65	It's always nice to return the remark to someone who is interrupting. As far as I am concerned, that is fine, because it makes the debate a little more lively. In my view, however, this is no different from what the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has always said: it is a sensible contraction, which must not, of course, go over the backs of individual entrepreneurs who have to see how they get out of debt if they want to leave the industry. Is Mr Geurts prepared to think together with GroenLinks about the sensible shrinkage of the sector with all the difficulties surrounding it? If that's possible, we'll come a few steps further for all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr Geurts and his group, I think I can speak on behalf of my group, and I am always prepared to discuss these matters with the parties. We are even willing to talk to the Animal Party, which excluded us from the possibility of forming a cabinet together, but that aside. We are also prepared to do so. However, it must never lead to the expulsion of livestock farming from the Netherlands. Then Mr Grashoff will not find me by his side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u67	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u68	I was in the middle of asking the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State imagine that peasant families feel hurt in the depths of their souls? This question concerns the ruling of the Brabant deputy. Despite the fact that Dutch livestock farming is one of the leading countries in the world, produces good food and contributes a lot to our economy, certain parties want to hunt our livestock sector abroad. The CDA wants us to work to ensure that the best remain, through innovation and by working with our very good farmers and farmers' wives towards ever more sustainable agriculture. However, keeping livestock must not have a negative impact on public health. Careful consideration should be given to the impact on the environment. As far as public health is concerned, it must be made very clear what the relationship is between livestock farming and, for example, ammonia and endotoxins, which can be released when livestock are kept, and health, for example, the lung function of local residents. To be able to conduct targeted policies, a correlation is not enough. We need more insight into cause and effect. I read in the RIVM report that a follow-up investigation is now under way. I hope that the results will come as soon as possible so that we can tackle possible problems. When does the Secretary of State expect the results to be published? Preventing more pneumonia within a radius of one kilometre of poultry farming is a very specific problem, for which, in my view, targeted measures are possible. We must not forget that poultry farmers have invested in stable systems that are considered socially desirable. These are systems which, for example, allow free-range and free-range, but which unfortunately cause more fine dust. My question to the Secretary of State is how discussions with the poultry sector are going on. In addition, I ask the Secretary of State if he still intends to ask the Health Council for an update of the 2012 investigation, following the research of the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. Following the change in the composition of the Chamber, I was asked whether I was also a spokesperson for agriculture. That was a bit laughed about, but I know it's a wonderful subject. It's affecting the whole of the Netherlands. We've grown big with it. Agriculture is an important driver of our economy, but it also raises the necessary problems, both in terms of nature and well-being and in terms of our health. That is why this subject affects me and I think it is so very important. I'm the daughter of a farm worker myself. A large part of my family is still farming or in the livestock sector. So it's something that's been poured into me with the spoon. We all eat meat. I don't happen to do that, but most of us do. We also eat eggs or cheese. It's something that hits us every day. Farms in agriculture are often family farms. That also explains the emotions on this subject. Nevertheless, it is a subject that we really must take very seriously. There are major consequences; there is considerable damage to residents who are directly affected by the negative effects of intensive livestock farming. It is planned that a goat farm in Helmond will be expanded by 2,500 goats. The farmer concerned does not live there. On the one hand are the family members of the neighbors and twelve other neighbors who are all affected by Q fever. They have legitimate concerns. These concerns are not made up on the basis of the reports; they have those concerns through their experiences. They have become ill and still experience the consequences on a daily basis. On the other hand, there is the farmer, who wants nothing but a good and healthy farm for the sake of the family business. It is precisely these two interests that we will have to balance, especially in the areas of Brabant that are so vulnerable. We can't keep baking around here and pretending there's no problem. We could not do that around the gas extraction in Groningen, nor can we when it comes to the debate on intensive livestock farming. Hence my next question. When can we expect the legislative proposal on livestock-tight areas in relation to animal numbers and particularly the sensitive areas, with which we can provide not only ourselves but in particular those areas where livestock density is highest, with good tools to control them? A report on the poultry sector has recently been published, with a number of further steps to be taken in the short term. When can we expect these steps? I'm rounding up. Cattle and agriculture are part of the Netherlands, but that is only possible if we shape it in a good way, considering the importance of people living around and the importance of health, especially in the areas where it is simply too much now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u70	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Kuik for saying with great enthusiasm: give me that agricultural portfolio, because this is really where it is happening for a living earth. My question is this. The PvdA is not sitting at the formation table right now, but has delivered the leaders of Agriculture over the last four years. What I would like to ask the cabinet is a more or less neutral analysis of the goals to be met. We all have ambitions in the areas of the environment, nature and animal welfare. We have seen that the policies of the last few years, where one goal has been looked at again and then again, do not work. Although there is now a outgoing cabinet, does the PvdA agree with us that it would be a good thing that it comes with such an analysis, so that the next cabinet can make choices on that basis? Wouldn't this of this Secretary of State be a last good exercise that could also help the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u71	Yeah, I think that's an excellent idea. I know that there is going to be a lot of cake-making about what exactly these goals are. Allow me, by the way, to make a somewhat cold comparison. In departments there is also always a kind of card box made with all kinds of proposals where you spend money and proposals where you cut money. In the same way, you should put a mark on the horizon when it comes to the choices you can make with regard to agricultural policy, which benefits nature and health but also gives the farmer a right to exist in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u72	I welcome this answer. Because the problems in agriculture are so great, I think it is very important that, even if this cabinet is decommissioned, there should be a conclusion on all those goals that we need to achieve. If you combine that and look at it in conjunction, choices are needed. Then we can put that analysis in front of all the false accusations made by people who are against it and say "you do not want any more farmers" and put that well-being against the environment. Then we have an analysis that we can continue with. I'm glad the Labour Party supports that. Let's hope the cabinet responds positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u73	I myself have also spoken to a number of farmers who have suffered from this unbridled increase in scale, which they themselves have not been able to keep up with in terms of investment. They almost long for the old product boards that have been abolished under our cabinet. I'll just admit that because it gave handles to prevent them from only growing through without thinking about their consequences. I think that with a package of proposals on where we all want to go and how to achieve that, you can come to such a sketch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. We are having a debate today on intensive livestock farming. The reason for this debate is the coverage of the departure of an alderman in the municipality of Bladel. A majority of the college wanted to allow the development of livestock farming under conditions and this alderman could not agree with this course. It is up to the college and the city council in the municipality of Bladel to act in this situation. The VVD therefore regrets that a number of parties and organisations are using this situation to enforce additional national rules for the development and growth of livestock farming. A Dutch farmer works seven days a week, 24 hours a day, for his or her company. A farmer wants to meet all the rules and requirements that are required, out of love for the farm and for the animals. At the same time, he or she provides food for the consumer, in this case a piece of meat. In the Netherlands we have strict rules that you as an entrepreneur have to comply with. There are rules on spatial planning, the environment, odour load, particulate matter, ammonia emissions and animal welfare. Entrepreneurs who comply with this can run their business and if spatial planning allows it also expand further. Where there are public health concerns, research and monitoring must be carried out. The VVD believes that the development and/or growth of livestock farming should be in line with the rules in the areas of public health, land-use planning, environment and animal welfare. The rules on spatial planning, such as the size of a building block or the condition for the use of the latest technologies in the field of odour or particulate matter, are made local and provincial. We'd like to keep that responsibility there, too. It is the local and provincial directors who are close to the people, who know the surroundings well. That which is appropriate in Groningen or Friesland, is perhaps undesirable in Brabant. And if there are undesirable situations that endanger the quality of the environment, local or regional intervention must also be possible. National rules to steer on animal numbers are not at issue as far as the VVD is concerned. There are sufficient possibilities within the laws and regulations to steer in undesirable situations or to impose additional conditions. We see that the municipality of Bladel has also chosen to allow a development if a number of conditions are met. Additional rules are not necessary, especially in order to make it even more difficult for farmers. Within the conditions that exist, the VVD wants to give farmers the opportunity to undertake. With the introduction of the Environment Act in 2019, the control possibilities become even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mrs Lodders says that there are sufficient steering tools available. I really do hear different sounds about that. I have another question. Of course, it is best if the local level can be resolved. But if the contrasts are very high and national politics are also looked at at a local level, then at some point it is also on our plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u76	I should have started by congratulating Mr De Groot and Mr Futselaar on their maiden speech. I'm sorry about that. Mr de Groot wondered whether there were sufficient instruments at local level. I would not really like to have the debate of the Municipality of Bladel here, but we see that the Municipality of Bladel has also set a number of conditions in recent years. Emissions have decreased in the Municipality of Bladel, precisely because of the way in which the policy has been implemented. A number of parties here, as well as organisations in the country, want to hold the debate here and implement the local situation across the country. I find that complicated. That is precisely why I indicated in my speech that what is desirable in Groningen, Friesland or Flevoland might not be desirable in Brabant or Limburg, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u77	I agree that this could best be resolved at local level, but the fact is that this is not happening in many municipalities. This ultimately leads to a much less perspective for the sector, because it is much less accepted by society. So I think it will be a matter for national politics to take the lead there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u78	That is very much the question. When we talk about the situation in the municipality of Bladel and in a number of other municipalities, we can also look at the province of North Brabant. I know that the debate on this situation is also taking place in the province of North Brabant and needs to be continued. Provincial states are not yet ready, if I have understood correctly in the conversations I am having with them. Let things take place locally first. When it comes to the environment, the province also has an important responsibility. Let's get it tuned over there. If we make a country-by-country policy, this means that we apply the situation in North Brabant to all the other provinces as well. That would be a very bad development.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u79	My second question concerned the instruments. There is clearly a call from the province to be able to steer better than one can do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u80	Again, those instruments are there. It is further extended with the introduction of the Environment Act. We have a number of instruments in the Crisis and Recovery Act. Look also at the municipality of Bladel: conditions are set. Enlargement and further development may be allowed, provided emissions decrease. It's going too far for now, but I can show you stats from which you can see that emissions have decreased at individual company level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u81	Does Mrs Lodder recognise that local communities are deeply split because there are farmers on the one hand and there are people on the other hand who are incredibly affected by their well-being and joy of life, because they live near these farms and suffer from them incredibly? If Mrs Lodder recognizes that, could she agree with me that this calls for a very firm and structural change, because otherwise we will only increase those contradictions further?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u82	Mr Grashoff knows me as a representative of the people who make a lot of work visits. I may have done that more intensively in the last few weeks than I've been doing the year round. I recognize signs that within municipalities and regions there are areas where discussions, sometimes tough discussions, take place between entrepreneurs and residents. That is exactly why I indicated in my speech: let us invest it locally. If you do not come out locally, we also have the province. He knows the surroundings and the people who live there. We cannot spread it as a "rehearsal plate" all over the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u83	Following that answer: Eastern Brabant, especially the Peel, is the most intensive livestock area in the Netherlands. It is located in the province of Noord-Brabant and it indicates that it has insufficient control. We could work together to ensure that the province gets those control options. That is not a question of putting a mould all over the Netherlands, but of offering an instrument that the province of North Brabant could deal with differently than the province of Gelderland. What, then, could be the problem, I ask Mrs Lodders, with the provision of these instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u84	These instruments are in place right now. Within the Crisis and Recovery Act there are a number of possibilities. We have also included a number of handles in the Environment Act. By the way, that law is not yet in force, but it is coming. I also speak with provincial leaders and with people from the region. Not everyone's here yet. I recognise that a number of politicians are calling for additional instruments, but I do not recognise that picture among all the directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u85	So we will come back to the question of the responsibility that the VVD Group here in the Chamber itself feels for public health, for example. There are two things that don't add up to Mrs. Lodder's story. The cabinet has already said that we want a law on animal numbers. It is now called the Animal Possessed Areas Act. It did not come to the Chamber and it seems that the VVD has constantly stopped it, while the province of Brabant is asking for it. But we are not there yet, because we are warned by scientists and experts that public health problems and risks are not just local and that resistant bacteria are a threat to everyone in the Netherlands, just like particulate matter. Here comes the responsibility of the VVD group here in The Hague. Or does the VVD say "no, no, no, no, and again no" in all areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u86	I believe that I have spoken a number of times about the concept of public health, and this is not the first debate in which I do so. When a development takes place, we must pay attention to public health. That is crucial. A number of investigations have taken place. I do not think we have really discussed these reports in the Chamber. If we look at those reports and at the results of those reports, we cannot draw firm conclusions. So I'm really happy with... There are a number of other speakers who have also noted this. I am content with the fact that the cabinet is doing additional research. By the way, I indicated the same thing. I think it's also important that we monitor, because there are negative effects. But there are also a number of positive effects around livestock farming. I think it's crucial that... it sounds a little crazy, but measuring is knowing in this case. We have to do that, and we have to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u87	The VVD, Mrs Lodders, does not address the question of whether it has, in fact, constantly stopped cattle-proof areas with its group. We could have treated them in the Chamber a long time ago, but he didn't come here. That law would do justice to the plea she made herself to regulate it locally. We don't think you're here with just more provincial powers. The second is that it again ignores A. the precautionary principle and B. the warnings that these resistant bacteria and the fine dust will hit the whole of the Netherlands. From the precautionary principle you should therefore say 'we protect public health' rather than 'we wait another ten years for research'. Is the precautionary principle important for public health for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u88	Two questions. First of all, the question of the law on livestock-tight or livestock-intensive areas. That law doesn't have to come as far as we're concerned. That is also what I said in my speech. So it is not that I do not want to answer that, because that law is superfluous as far as we are concerned. You can't set it in motion that way for all the provinces. In our view, the additional instruments are not necessary either. Mrs Ouwehand's second question. Of course, public health is important. We attach great importance to the investigations that have taken place. We are committed to additional research and that does not have to take ten years. Mrs Ouwehand also knows that, because I believe that the Secretary of State Mr Ouwehand may have confirmed that in his reply................................................................................................................................................................................................ So it doesn't have to take ten years, but I'm looking in the direction of the Secretary of State for that. I think I read something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u89	Finally, I shall give the floor... Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand. One final comment!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u90	Mr President, briefly. I note that the VVD ignores national responsibility and ignores the precautionary principle. I am very concerned about this, because we are being warned about what the VVD is doing: trusting in technology and trusting in self-regulation by the sector. So the local powers do not tackle these problems. I would like to give the VVD a chance to really reconsider that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u91	Mrs Ouwehand is a star in putting the sector in the fucking corner when it comes to new techniques. I'm really moving away from that. There have been enormous developments in recent years in which industry has invested and taken very large steps, not only on aspects that affect public health in a positive way. Can I also mention, for example, the plan for the vitalization of pig farming? It addresses a much broader aspect. They deserve praise. It would adorn the Party for the Animals if it also dared to speak it out towards the sector. I think that would put the sector on the right track rather than on the wrong track.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u92	Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u93	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is for future-oriented agriculture in the Netherlands and we have everything we need. Our farmers are international leaders in innovation and sustainability. At the same time, we see that intensification of agriculture can lead to negative effects, such as environmental problems, water pollution and risks to public health. The Christian Union considers it important to reduce the risks in a realistic way. This means focusing on the objectives, such as soil, air and water quality. The reason for this debate is the situation in the municipality of Bladel. The local environment view states that further development of livestock farming is only possible if the emissions from farms do not increase or even decrease. That is also reflected in the figures. Since 2010, authorised emissions have decreased by 31%. Here too, land-based considerations must be taken into account and geared to the objectives. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that entrepreneurs should also be able to invest in order to improve sustainability and animal welfare? Does he agree with me that area-oriented consideration should be given to impacts on the living environment and the space to invest? There is no direct, unambiguous relationship between the number of animals in a stable and public health. There are reports, but it is good that additional research is being carried out. However, we know that high levels of particulate matter in the vicinity of poultry farms can lead to respiratory diseases. In this context, I would like to draw attention to a beautiful initiative in my own region: the Manifest Healthy Environment Farming Region Food Valley. The aim is to reduce emissions of particulate matter, smell and ammonia, among other things. This manifesto has come with support from farmers, LTO Netherlands, municipalities and the province. So it's possible. However, there are still too many thresholds for these targeted investments, especially for smaller entrepreneurs. We see lists of measures of best available techniques, but the measurements to get the system recognized are expensive and take a lot of time. That inhibits innovation on the farmyard. Is the Secretary of State prepared to remove these bottlenecks? How is he going to support this manifesto? A build-up of rules or the closure of businesses only causes beautiful family farms to fall over and ultimately does not help the environment either. Development is needed in order to be able to make investments in the areas of the environment and sustainability. The Christian Union wants the government to work with the sector and knowledge institutions to improve air quality around stables. Make existing emission reducing techniques more widely applicable and stimulate innovations on the farmyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u94	I suggest Mrs. Dik-Faber finish her story. Then I give you the opportunity to interrupt, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u95	I was almost done. In this debate, I hear many colleagues arguing for a system change. Their system change is the Animal Numbers Act. The Christian Union is not in favour of this. We want a fair wage model for farmers: a fair price for a fair product. That is the system change we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u96	I hear Mrs Dik-Faber talking about the family business, which she would like to protect. I can end up with that. I'd like that, too. How does it look at the fact that in this sector, too, there is an increasingly large-scale and more industrial business operation, with the whole of the family business disappearing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u97	If you look in width at the development in Dutch agriculture, you can see that many companies stop, too many companies, and that is what I care about. You can see the companies that remain are getting bigger. That is inherent in the situation. If a company is to develop and invest in the areas of sustainability and the environment, it will need to grow somewhat more to be able to recoup these investments. I also see that there are very large farms where many animals are kept. The family business is under pressure. For me, that has everything to do with the global market position in which farmers are in and the fact that they do not get a fair price for their products. So I would very much like to work with GroenLinks to see how we can improve farmers' income. I know that GroenLinks is also in favour of this and how we can ensure that they get an honest earning model, so that that miserable earning model they now have is not the reason for scaling up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u98	We agree on that point. That pay model needs to be better. But can Mrs Dik-Faber follow my reasoning when I say that the enormous size of intensive livestock farming, in particular, places such great pressure on both feed and manure that the cost of this has been greatly increased? That is precisely because of the enormous scale of the sector as a whole. If you want to achieve a better earning model, shrinking the sector is important. Then the costs of manure disposal and feed will be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u99	No, I cannot repeat that to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I agree with what Mr Geurts said: Mr Grashoff wants the livestock in our country to shrink, but how? And where does that lead next? As far as I am concerned, this leads to the collapse of family farms. That's not what I want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u100	That discussion has already been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u101	That debate has indeed already been held. I hear Mr Grashoff say all kinds of things outside the microphone, but let us talk about it to someone else. I don't share his analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u102	I have a comment and a brief question. Everyone is talking about the earning model, but there is an approved motion from me, which has been supported by GroenLinks and the Christian Union. So we're working on this. That's why I asked what's going on. My question concerns the following. I heard Mrs Dik-Faber speak of an honest product, but what does she mean by an honest product?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u103	This is a product that has been produced in accordance with current environmental, sustainability, animal welfare and so on. In this respect, we have the best products in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u104	That's right, but this is where I wanted to go. I'm very happy that "animal welfare" is in line, because hundreds of vets have joined together massively. These are people who really know things, animal suffering and animal welfare, because they have often studied for at least eight years. They say that ritual torture of animals is really an incredibly high form of animal cruelty. It's animal torture. How can the Christian Union be for that? Mrs Dik-Faber speaks of a fair product and animal welfare, but then millions of animals are ritually tortured. Should we be able to do that? Is that "fair" too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u105	This subject is not on the agenda right now. It concerns the ritual slaughter in the Netherlands. A covenant has been concluded on this subject, in which animal welfare is kept in mind as much as possible. As I said, this issue is not on the agenda, but there is therefore maximum animal welfare. Freedom of faith is worth something to us, too. Let us also discuss this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u106	I think that is a good proposal, Mrs Dik-Faber. Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term on the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u107	We will continue with the debate on intensive livestock farming. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u108	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mr Futselaar and Mr De Groot. It is an incredible privilege to be a member of the House of Representatives. It's a wonderful moment when you make your first speech in this room. I remember standing here myself, but I should have waited six months before I could make my maiden speech. You've only had to wait half a month for it. That's a promise. You've both kept a very passionate story that makes you curious about more. I would like to congratulate you on that. You were also lucky to be able to give your first speech here on a subject which is very concerned about intensive livestock farming. I was, like Mr De Groot and some others, during the election campaign in Deurne. There was a meeting organised by concerned citizens. They are concerned about livestock farming in their surroundings. They said it could get crowded. When I entered the Chamber, I was surprised to see that many hundreds of people were there, both concerned citizens and farmers. They were there together for a debate on the future of livestock farming. If I remember correctly, almost all political parties would have responded to the invitation. I believe that only the VVD and the PVV were not present, but there were also representatives of all parties. It was an evening that was also quite exemplary for the social debate. On the one hand, there were very concerned citizens who did not feel taken seriously, either by the government or by the farmers. On the other hand, there were angry farmers who didn't feel understood either. They initially complained because they were not explicitly invited. But during that evening the various attendees didn't really get close. I also said there that it is necessary. I've said that before in the Chamber. The Netherlands has built up a very intensive livestock farming. It has developed in such a way historically. At first it was intended for the production of our own food, but over time it has become increasingly focused on exports, mainly to other European countries. The result is that we keep a very large number of animals in this small country. For example, there are 12.5 million pigs here and over 100 million chickens. There are strong concentrations in certain regions, with an emphasis on East Brabant. This is where political discussions on the future of livestock farming are often high. We also witnessed this two weeks ago, when Alderman Veldhuizen quit Bladel because the college she was part of wanted to grow livestock farming in her municipality unbridled. I do not think it is appropriate to deal with this issue, but I can say that I find it worrying that the tension and polarisation about the future of livestock farming is rising so high, something I have been seeing for a long time in Brabant. Something must be done there; it cannot go on like this. The livestock sector has a size, especially there, of which you have to ask whether it fits a small country like the Netherlands. There are major concerns about the health effects of fine dust emissions from poultry farming, and the effects of ammonia emissions and odours from pigs and cattle. The VGO study reveals links between, on the one hand, living in the immediate vicinity of livestock farms and, on the other hand, health. It is mainly about lung problems that people are dealing with. For example, there are 222,000 homes in the Netherlands within 250 meters of at least one farm location. So more than 500,000 people live in the immediate vicinity of livestock farming. Some effects, also evident from these studies, are expressed at a greater distance. There are therefore legitimate reasons for this concern. In addition, there are concerns about the industrialisation of rural areas, the large traffic flows there, the impact of livestock farming on the climate and on nature. But there are also serious concerns about the economic future of livestock farmers. We will come to a solution only if both can find each other, if farmers understand the concerns of local residents and the views of the rest of society, and if society understands the position of farmers, who, independently, as small players, can force little change in a chain of powerful parties. We also see this when we look at the contribution of intensive livestock farming to the Dutch economy. The added value of primary production is only 0.09% of GDP. Much more money is made by barn builders, food suppliers and the meat processing industry. Something must therefore be done, including for the farmers themselves. Mr Graus (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. That's where we need to go. We need to move towards a livestock farm that has support in society and which farmers themselves make money from, rather than making money, especially from farms around farmers. This cabinet has taken many steps. I refer to the VGO study, the emission reduction under the Programmed Approach Nitrogen, the reduction of antibiotic use in intensive livestock farming, the support for pig farming plans to revitalise pig farming and the ESC opinion on the sustainability of intensive livestock farming. The cabinet isn't ready yet. The appointment of a director for the sustainability of livestock farming, as a follow-up to the ESC opinion, is part of the pipeline. Some have asked about the cattle-proof areas bill and about the discussion about the VGO study on particulate matter emissions. The bill on cattle-proof areas is ready. It started once as the Animal Numbers Act. The bill has been published for internet consultation. It emerged from this that the legislative proposal is not sufficiently useful in practice. So we're talking about a whole different bow. The proposed environmental law, which has been discussed many times here, does not provide the province with sufficient instruments to effectively steer the sustainable development of livestock farming. Several speakers made it clear that they believe that more instruments are needed. I also heard Mrs Lodders, despite her doubts about this instrument, and rather the group chairman of the CDA told Mr Buma that sufficient instruments were needed in the province. Mr Buma even said that the instruments should be extended if the province is not able to intervene adequately. I'm sharing that line. The bill on cattle-tight areas provides for the gap that is now in place. This legislative proposal gives Provinces the opportunity to control the development of livestock-proof areas, allowing them to determine on all aspects of the development of livestock farming in that region what space is available and what space is not available. I have always announced that I will publish the bill for internet consultation, because it is in fact the successor to the earlier Animal Numbers Act. Everything's ready for that. I intend to do that early next week. Then all involved can respond to it. After receiving the comments, I will discuss in the Cabinet whether the bill can be submitted to the Council of State. Given the lead time that this normally entails, I think it will be up to a next cabinet, obviously depending on the length of the formation, to present the bill to the Chamber. The members of parliament who are still in doubt on the basis of the content can then also assess whether that law provides for what Members have advocated, namely tailor-made work by province and instruments that the county administration itself can decide whether to use, if it needs to. Some provinces don't need those tools, others say they don't want to, because their citizens will ask for it to be deployed and in particular the province of North Brabant to be able to get its hands on the instruments so that they can effectively steer the sustainable development of livestock farming that has support in its immediate vicinity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u109	I do not know the content of the law yet, but I do have an informative question. Why should there be new instruments if a municipality such as Boekel, including in the province of Brabant, does manage well? Why should there be new instruments if there is a very nice manifesto in the FoodValley between farmers and LTO on one side and municipalities and province on the other side? It's going well in a lot of places, isn't it? Then we have to see together that the contradictions are great, that one is opposed to one another and perhaps has taken over the trenches, but that the instruments are not the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u110	I understand the question, Mrs Dik-Faber, but I really want to prevent us from talking about a legislative proposal that is still under consultation with those concerned or is not yet being submitted. So a short answer and then we go back to the content of the debate we are having today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u111	Mrs Dik-Faber asks above all about the reason for a legislative proposal. Locally, municipalities have the necessary powers to control spatial development within the municipalities. These powers are not infinite, by the way. Municipalities also do not have all the powers they sometimes want to be able to control them. More importantly, intensive livestock farming has a regional character. Traffic pressure, smell, health effects and spatial effects are regional issues. We have said about this, also in the forthcoming environmental law, that the province is the one that should be able to steer at that level. At present, however, the province lacks the tools to actually steer the development of livestock farming in a region for the sake of viability. That is exactly the gap that the Environment Act does not yet provide for, but which this bill does provide for. It is therefore intended that this bill will initially act as an interim law, but eventually become part of the Environment Act. That is to fill that gap, so that provinces will actually have the opportunity to steer in a region as to how the sector is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u112	Please continue. Mr Grashoff, not on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u113	Especially at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u114	However, I would like to prevent us from talking about a bill that no one has seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u115	However, whether or not to come to the Chamber of this bill is about the most central part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u116	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u117	I think so. I think that one of the most crucial points is whether or not we would agree that this proposal should come to this. So I think this is going to hit the heart of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u118	I would like to hear how others feel about this, otherwise we are talking about a proposal that is not being discussed now. As you know, you will have every opportunity to hold a debate, but I do not know if everyone agrees with that. Otherwise, we're really gonna get things mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u119	We don't know the content of that law. It is therefore very difficult to discuss this with the Secretary of State. I think we should deal with this point in a procedural meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u120	I'm making an order proposal of this now. Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u121	I agree. We don't know the law. The Secretary of State has outlined a procedure. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to be like that, but I've heard the Secretary of State say that that law goes into consultation. After that, it will be through the Council of Ministers, especially in a cabinet with a missionary status. I think we should keep that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u122	You are quite right, procedurally. That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u123	I have requested this debate. This was partly due to the discussion in the relevant municipalities about whether municipalities have sufficient powers or whether there should be national direction and, if so, how we do so. This is, even very limited, a kind of general debate. What do we do with that call? I think that the Secretary of State is quite right to outline what the cabinet has about set in motion, what it is thinking about and what weighting it will have to make in the near future. I am very much in favour of just asking questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u124	I think it is difficult to debate the problems faced by municipalities and provinces without talking about the instruments needed to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u125	Then I suggest that it really be a very short debate. Otherwise, we'll have a real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u126	I'll try to be brief, that's not the point. If there had been no proposal for such a law that I know the Secretary of State is working on, I would have used this debate to make a serious plea for such a law. That would have been the very heart of this debate. It is a question of whether or not there are sufficient powers to steer these kinds of issues. The example Bladel illustrates this exactly. If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, what he is doing is actually an addition to the spatial planning framework, the Environment Act. The colleague of the Secretary of State, Mrs Schultz, is the lead executive. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. There is a far-reaching proposal. Does this mean that it can be said on behalf of the cabinet: yes, there is an Environment Act here and there is a need for a piece of instruments, especially for the provincial government?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u127	Of course, because I'm here on behalf of the cabinet. As a cabinet, we have established that environmental law does not provide for the instruments contained in this bill. That has to do with the following. If there are problems with public health, you can take measures under environmental law. However, intensive livestock farming is concerned with a broader palette, namely public health, which is also confirmed by the VGO studies, but also by broad aspects of viability, such as the traffic pressure and industrialisation of rural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u128	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u129	There are many aspects. This bill provides that the province can make a programme on all these aspects and thus steer the development in the so-called livestock-tight area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u130	Finally, Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u131	It still has to go to the Council of State. This means that the Secretary of State could in principle send it to the Chamber before the summer. None of us can look into a glass ball as far as successors and the like are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u132	If you include the normal terms of the Council of State, then "before summer" is very tight. It may be back in the summer, but I said it would be appropriate to discuss, especially in a missionary period, as Mrs Lodder pointed out, after the consultation in the cabinet, how we will proceed with the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u133	Exactly, and this is also mentioned in the procedural meeting, because I think there will also be a list of controversial issues. Such discussions are also held at committee level. I give the floor to Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u134	I would like to make a point, not so much about the law, but about the instruments. Now it is a bit sketched that there would be no instrument for the municipality or province to take action. It may not be as specific as the Secretary of State sketches it and aims with the law that we do not yet know, but there are indeed Mrs Dik-Faber has for a reason given a number of municipalities called conditions by municipalities. The municipality of Bladel has also done so. I'd like to plead for caution. We should not give the impression that no action can be taken at all. Look at the results in the municipality of Bladel, where emissions were very much mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber in her speech about 31%, and I also read that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u135	The municipality of Bladel is a good example. There the municipality says: there can be a substantial expansion. The municipality of Bladel also has neighboring municipalities that will have the effect of doing so if they actually do so, i.e. having an impact on the quality of life in rural areas. Such cross-border issues are normally the province's territory. Of course this plays very strongly in the province of Brabant and actually hardly in other provinces; a bit in North Limburg and a bit in Gelderland and Overijssel. However, it plays very strongly in the province of Brabant. That province will also want to make it clear to you that the legal instruments that it now has at its disposal and will soon be given with the future Environment Act are not sufficient to steer. The province of Brabant is therefore also strongly in need of this bill. Anyway, if it is published for internet consultation next week, the Chamber can see it all and can read for itself where the instruments are complementary. The parties sitting at the formation table can therefore continue to discuss with that science how a next cabinet deals with this. The other subject that was asked for, also explicitly by Mr Geurts, was the fine dust emission of poultry farming. That is the problem that is also raised in the VGO investigations. In the immediate vicinity of livestock farms, a link is seen between fine dust emissions and various health complaints, in particular lung complaints. When that investigation had appeared, Secretary of State Dijksma and I, also on behalf of the Minister of VWS, indicated that we would take steps to reduce this emissions. Secretary of State Dijksma and I had agreed with the sector organisations in the poultry sector on an approach that would significantly reduce the emissions of fine dust over the next ten years. Such a significant reduction is also absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, the agreement has been withdrawn at the last minute by poultry farming, because sector organisations believe that the POR arrangements which expire at the end of this year should be extended. These are exceptions to animal rights for, among other things, the poultry sector. I have already told the Chamber that I do not see room for this, partly in view of the discussions we are already having on phosphate production in the Netherlands. Due to the difference of opinion on this issue, the cabinet now needs to take autonomous measures to reduce fine dust emissions. We will, of course, start from the discussions we have already had. The Secretary of State for I and M and I hope to be able to inform the Chamber about this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u136	This is a good example of the point the Party wants to make for the Animals. We are in favour of responding to this call from provinces for more control, but that leaves a national responsibility. Fine dust-resistant bacteria are prime examples of this. Now we have spoken with the researchers who, on behalf of the government that conducted the VGO research, are investigating the risks to public health for people living in livestock farms. We asked them: why did you not examine the measure to reduce livestock so that we can see what its effect is? The answer was: it is obvious that the most sensible measure is that it has not been further developed. My question to the cabinet is, therefore, whether the cabinet is taking this option into account. Or will the cabinet continue to investigate the different techniques and what they might yield?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u137	I have seen in various election programmes that various parties proposed a reduction in the livestock population in the Netherlands. Other parties have not done so. This shows that this issue raises quite different political views. I think it's really up to a new cabinet to cut the buttons on the direction it wants to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u138	I understand that the Secretary of State says so, because I know these relations in the Chamber, even though D66 wants to shrink by 25%; it would be nice if D66 confirms that here. However, my appeal to the Cabinet is to at least map that option. I can imagine that the outgoing cabinet would be reluctant, but at least we can see what it would mean to meet the fine dust targets if, for example, we cut the poultry population by 10% or 25%. Then it is up to the Chamber or a new cabinet to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u139	With regard to the reduction of livestock, various scenarios have already been taken into account by the PBL in the pass-through of election programmes. This also shows that reduction in any case has a good impact on environmental and climate problems. Of course, this also leads to less fine dust emissions, but reducing livestock is not the only remedy against particulate matter emissions. Even after reduction, we will undoubtedly still have an intensive poultry holding in the Netherlands which will still emit fine dust if you do not take action against it. Whatever political choices are made in this respect, fine dust reduction measures will therefore be necessary in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u140	I'd like to get a paragraph back, because it came in a little slow. The Secretary of State spoke of unbridled expansion that would be discussed in Brabant. For the report, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that we, as representatives of the people, sometimes look up the differences, but I expected the Secretary of State to bridge those differences and not use this kind of language. Unbridled expansion is not possible in Brabant. The maximum is 1.5 hectares and if they are filled in one place, an old farm must disappear in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u141	It seems to me to be a very decent Dutch word, but we can also talk about substantial enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u142	Continue with...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u143	Again. Neither can massive expansion. Pig farming, poultry farming and now also dairy farming have been carried out. The Secretary of State has carried the Phosphorus Rights Act through the Lower House. The pig and poultry rights have been exported, including within the south area. - Big expansion? - Yeah. What does the Secretary of State mean? It's about a quarter acres. When they are filled, square meters go off in another place. What do you mean, big expansion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u144	It is about the decision made by the Municipality of Bladel. It has indeed decided to give room for expansion in animal numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u145	I suggest that the Secretary of State continues to answer the questions. Mrs Lodders, a lot of questions have been asked, and this is a 30-member debate. There can therefore not be unlimited interruptions. I'm gonna step in now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u146	Can I make one more comment? It's a fact. The number of cattle in the municipality of Bladel has been declining since 2000, with the exception of 2015, as there was an increase at that time. That declining line has certainly been visible since 2005 and then I'll do it in broad outline. Let us talk about the facts and not talk about them on the basis of images, because then there is a very wrong impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u147	You've made your point. I suggest that the Secretary of State continues to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u148	That seems to me to be a good thing, Mr President, because the policy of the Municipality of Bladel is being discussed in Bladel and not here. However, it is clear why the relevant alderman has resigned, namely because the decisions of the college allow for the keeping of more cattle in locations within the municipality of Bladel. The follow-up studies to the VGO study have been requested. The results of the follow-up studies are indeed expected for the summer, as some have said. I'll send them to the Chamber as soon as they get there, of course. The Health Council has also been asked to advise on the effects of secondary particulate matter. That's fine dust that travels over longer distances, you could say, and thus also crashes over longer distances, possibly also with major health consequences. This binds to ammonia; this is explicitly about secondary particulate matter that is the result of ammonia emissions. The Health Council is expected to deliver this opinion by the end of this year. The Chamber will take it for granted. Mrs Ouwehand has asked if I am prepared to come up with an integral analysis. We have already discussed this briefly. The necessary analyses have already been carried out in recent years. The cabinet wrote a letter in 2013 about intensive livestock farming. It states that an integrated and structural approach is needed to solve societal issues. Recently, an ESC opinion from the Nijpels Commission has been published to give new impetus to the sustainability of livestock farming. I have already said that one of the main points of this opinion is to work with a national director. I said at the time that I would like to appoint it to ensure that the approach outlined in the ESC opinion is also taken into account. I don't think it makes much sense to make another whole analysis. I believe that we must now take concrete steps, including political choices that must be made here by a new cabinet. I have also outlined that in recent years this cabinet has made a major effort to improve the sustainability of livestock farming. Mr De Groot asked me about my willingness to cooperate, and I think he asked everyone to do so in the field of agriculture and horticulture, particularly in the area of circular agriculture, the circular economy. I was just talking about the director for intensive livestock farming. It seems logical to me to ask him to include in his work the desire for more circular farming. His or her role is also emphasised to drive the process of sustainability in cooperation with all chain parties. The director is therefore working not only with livestock farmers, but also with all the other organisations involved. I said earlier that they have a significant influence on what is happening in the chain. The circular economy and innovation are important elements of the approach that we want to implement in order to achieve a livestock farming that has both economic perspective and social support. That's where we need to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you for this. I specifically asked for an inventory of the legal obstacles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u150	Yeah, that was the next question I wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u151	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u152	There are already many initiatives in the field of circular agriculture. I mention, for example, the reuse of residues from the food industry and animal feed and the reuse of animal manure in the Netherlands and in European arable farming. There are currently no specific legal restrictions in the department. As an instrument to discover those kinds of limitations, we have the green deals. Those are actually agreements with frontrunners, where we enter into the experiment together. One of the green deals I recently signed was the Green Deal meadow pigs. That is a wonderful initiative by a pig farmer in Brabant who actually wants to keep pigs in a very different way. He wants them to walk outside, as pigs normally do in their lives, but he also wants to use them in nature, in order to help maintain nature. In doing so, you sometimes run into obstacles, including in the laws and regulations. Of course, it's aimed at a very different way of loving pigs. In this kind of green deals we agree that we sometimes experiment and see if all these regulations are necessary for this kind of pig farming. In this green deal and in the green deal we made with the gentlemen's farmers in Boxtel, we agreed that we are going to look at whether we can suspend certain regulations for such initiatives, because they simply do not apply to these initiatives. This is how we try to discover legal barriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u153	The initiatives of male farmers and grazing pigs are all wonderful initiatives, but 99% of farmers simply have the animals in the stables. That certainly also applies to pig farmers. They are doing their best to raise pigs for our meat production under current laws and regulations. The Secretary of State speaks a lot of fine words about the experimental space. Is he going to help all those other farmers he doesn't put in the window? Will he offer their new experimental space and new opportunities to work on innovations? Being innovative is beautiful, but it is also very expensive and very bureaucratic for a lot of farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u154	Given what I have done in recent years, that is a bit of a strange question from Mrs Dik-Faber. I have given substantial financial support to the action plan on the vitalisation of pig farming. This plan is aimed at ordinary, regular pig farming and aims to give pig farming a much stronger and better future. Pig farming itself also says that its future lies with another way of keeping pigs. That's the way I have to go. I have always said that individual farmers are often unable to make that conversion because they are very dependent on the plans of chains that are much more powerful. The great thing about this action plan is that it has come from the bottom up. It comes from the pig farmers themselves, who themselves outline a good direction for the future. On the contrary, I have strongly supported that plan with a considerable financial contribution. I'm just gonna say it out of my head, but I think I put about 20 million in there. That is really much more than in the initiatives mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u155	I know the action plan, but that was not an answer to my question. Let me give you a concrete example. I'm an entrepreneur in the Gelderse Valley and I have ideas for reducing fine dust emissions. Before I can take steps to do that, I have to look at a list of best available techniques, but my idea is just not on it. If I'm gonna get that on that list, I'm gonna have to test it in four stables. How do I do that? I have to invest. How do I make that back? I have to take all kinds of steps when what I want to do is a desirable step. How are we going to give room for those innovations, just on the farmers' heirs of an individual entrepreneur? Is there an experimental room for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u156	We have also looked at this, including in the discussions with poultry farming. It is primarily a responsibility of the Secretary of State of I and M. It is also prepared to look at ways to speed up this type of procedure in order to ensure that new techniques can be implemented much faster and more easily. That is also included in the letter the Chamber receives about poultry farming. I can imagine that we will see whether the approach we have in mind for poultry farming can also have benefits for pig farming. Mrs Dik-Faber referred to the FoodValley manifesto. The Secretary of State for I and M has also announced plans for the adaptation of the stable assessment. The House will also receive a letter on this matter very soon. Mr Futselaar asked for a response to the conclusions of the OJ on manure and its consequences for derogation. The Chamber receives a response from the Cabinet to the PBL evaluation on manure policy. Of course, we are all involved in the preparations for the Sixth Action Programme. The annual monitoring of the derogation companies shows that the environmental results of the derogation companies do meet the objectives of the Nitrate Directive. The derogation is therefore not under pressure for that reason. That was a bit of the suggestion put forward by Mr Futselaar. The derogation is under pressure due to the excess of the phosphate production ceiling. We have discussed this very often in this Chamber, although in its previous composition. Mr Geurts asked me to respond to the statement made by the deputy in Brabant. I have said before that I do not think that is entirely appropriate. It is up to the Provincial States to judge their own deputy and not to the cabinet. In his explanatory statement, Mr Geurts spoke of a hex to farmers. The moment you address parties in society to face each other in a reasonable way, I share that very much with him. I do not think that this is the right word, because discussion about the fitability of livestock farming in society and providing social support for it is a relevant discussion which, however, requires both sides to understand it. That's what I've been advocating here. This means that on one side of farmers you can expect understanding for the social debate and willingness to adapt to it and on the other side of society and the political understanding for the difficult position in which farmers are often in, because they cannot independently shape that change and need help from, for example, politics, government or society itself. At a time when we are talking about this matter with a little more understanding of each other's position, I think that we can take important steps forward in the coming years that will benefit everyone. That's how I got to the end of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u157	You have a second term, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u158	I have a very short question on this point. Mr Geurts called the campaign of Wakker Dier misplaced and mentioned a hetze. The Secretary of State must have seen the ads. It wasn't an attack against the peasants. So it would be nice if the Secretary of State also stressed that civil society organisations that perform their role in a good way could not be accused of creating a song.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u159	Civil society organisations, citizens in the Netherlands, everyone has every right to express their opinion on the policy of the cabinet. And one has to know for oneself what form one does it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u160	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. In view of the interruptions, I assume that everyone needs them. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u161	Mr. Chairman. The problems are recognised. The cabinet is taking a number of steps, but it is not fundamental enough. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that agricultural policy is characterised by a fragmented approach to achieving different objectives, such as phosphate reduction, reduction of ammonia emissions, improvement of water quality and improvement of animal welfare, while not even mapping the climate forecast for livestock farming and agriculture as a whole;]] [[noting that the fragmented approach has not sufficiently brought social goals closer and has led to continuous uncertainty among entrepreneurs;]] [[expresses the urgent need for an integrated agricultural policy in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to present an integrated analysis of agriculture, with a view to assessing all objectives in a coherent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that standards and targets for the environment, nature, animal welfare, water quality, climate and public health protection cannot be met in the Netherlands in the case of the same size of livestock;]] [[points out that a substantial shrinkage of livestock will have to be achieved within the next cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-185]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u162	I have a very short question. What is "essential" in the eyes of the Party for Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u163	The Animal Party believes that in the long term a 70% reduction in livestock is needed. You're not gonna realize that in one cabinet period. In view of the electoral programmes of the various parties that are now at the formation table, I think that 10%, 15% or 20% could be a good commitment to the forthcoming government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. I'll tell you later why I'm filing the motion. That's more convenient than before. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State has repeatedly agreed to send to the Chamber a cattle-proof law which allows provinces to be sent to animal numbers, but that it has been postponed several times;]] [[Whereas the delay of this law has the effect of increasing numbers of animals increasing the situation in livestock-proof areas;]] [[calls on the government to bring this bill further into proceedings and, if possible, to send the bill to the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u165	There may be every reason not to deal with and accept such a bill in the Chamber during a missionary period. I do not think that the Chamber is going to do that either, and I honestly do not even think that I am in favour of it myself. But I do want to know the bill. I want to know what the proposal ultimately is, because it has fundamentally changed compared to previous proposals. I want to hear it's already been to the Council of State. I would also very much like to know the opinion of the Council of State. The only way to do that is if a bill comes to the Chamber. Then we also know the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u166	Mr. Chairman. I also had a motion on the cattle-proof areas Act. I will not table that motion because it is very similar to Mr Grashoff's motion. In addition, the Secretary of State has said that the bill is in principle ready and in consultation. The SP will file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas new organic farms are affected by the further reduction of the dairy sector;]] [[whereas as early as 2016 a motion from member Smaling c.s. (33979, No. 110) was adopted to establish a separate scheme for the new organic dairy farms;]] [[considers that these dairy farms reflect precisely the right direction for agriculture and should therefore not be the victims of the phosphate rights debate;]] [[calls on the government, still the Smaling motion c.s. to implement and to provide, in the short term, a separate scheme for organic dairy farms in the phosphate reduction plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u167	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I've heard his answer about the better earning model. I was standing in the back of the hall with a stuffed cake, but I got it all. Our farmers were once forced to keep more animals, to keep their heads above water, so for the sake of the earning model. It has been my opinion for ten years that we can only remove this from the retailers. They're really gonna take the big money. They make beautiful decorations to consumers in shops with organic and animal-friendly products. I'm not going to file a motion, but I hope the Secretary of State will just promise me the following. I may speak on behalf of several colleagues in the Chamber. We would like to know what the roadmap for the better earning model looks like. I ask for a factual account, but what I think is most important is an overview of actors. I want to know whether enough farmers are involved in this, people who are really at the front. I also want to know which powerful retailers might have a big finger in their mouth. I think that the Chamber, as a controlling body, should get a picture of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u168	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas negative effects on the environment and public health should be addressed in a targeted manner through cooperation between the sector, suppliers and technical service providers of the agricultural sector, government and science, including Wageningen University & Research and the technical universities;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the agricultural sector, to make existing emission reduction techniques more widely applicable and to come up with a plan to support more directly innovations in the farmyard, including through public-private cooperation in the field of innovation and demo projects in the field of energy, climate and reduction of harmful emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the FoodValley region, the Manifest Healthy Environment has been established, with the aim of reducing the concentrations of particulate matter, odour and ammonia by emission reduction at source;]] [[calls on the Government to actively support the Manifest Healthy Environment Farming in the FoodValley region, including by improving the practical application of emission reduction techniques in the management of individual entrepreneurs, and informing the Chamber about this before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-189]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28973-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u169	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u170	Thank you, Mr President. I come to the various motions and the question put by Mr Graus. First of all, Mrs Ouwehand's motion on item No. 185 for an integrated analysis of agriculture. That is a motion with all sorts of observations on what Mrs Ouwehand thinks about agricultural policy at the moment. I'm gonna have to dissuade that motion. I do not think it is appropriate for this cabinet to carry out such an analysis in what will be its last months. What she has had, however, is an ESC opinion which is an integral part of today's debate on the whole intensive livestock sector. The director who will be appointed as a result of this will also continue to work on it and will also identify further problems. Then the motion to part No. 186. A ruling shall be submitted to the Chamber. It is not for me to say anything about this and I have no advice on this motion. It's not a request to the government. The motion in part No. Mr Grashoff asked for the legislative proposal to be brought further into procedure and, if possible, for the legislative proposal to be sent to the Chamber before the summer. That's policy support. I have already said that I will start the internet consultation in the near future. That'll be early next week. Mr Grashoff said he wanted to know the bill. So he can know it, because he can look it up on the Internet himself. Of course, I have to wait for the results. I'm gonna have to wait and see what reactions come in. I will then discuss further the procedure of the legislative proposal in the Council of Ministers, but my commitment is to ensure that it is soon, hopefully before and otherwise in the summer, to the extent that it can also go to the Chamber. It is then up to the future cabinet or this Chamber to decide what is to be done with it. I hope, of course, that the Chamber will continue with it enthusiastically. Then the motion to part No. 188, which calls for a separate scheme for organic dairy farms in the phosphate reduction plan. That is not exactly the subject of intensive livestock farming that this debate is about, but let me give Mr Futselaar a response. I have to discourage the motion. How's it going now? All companies that have grown after 2 July 2015 have been told "no further growth" on that day. The companies that have done so, despite the clear warning given by the cabinet, are now faced with the need to reduce again. I don't care if you're a biological company or a non-organic company, because Secretary of State Dijksma's statement "doesn't grow anymore" applied to everyone. It can't be that you're surprised now, even if you're a biological company, that you have to undo your realized growth again. That was actually warned at the time. Mr President, I shall now come to the motion for a resolution on item No. 189. That is a motion by Mrs Dik-Faber to make emission reduction techniques more widely applicable. I would like to suggest to Mrs Dik-Faber that we hold that motion and wait for the letters she will receive in connection with the VGO investigation. I have already indicated that the Secretary of State of I and M will also inform the Chamber on certain points. I think that is the right time to discuss it further. If Mrs Dik-Faber insists and puts the motion to the vote, I therefore advise against the motion. I think there's a better time to talk about this. The motion in part No. 190 about the manifesto Healthy living environment livestock farming. I and M are in consultation with FoodValley to support that manifesto through practical measures such as Space in Rules and by searching for or creating that space. In this sense, the motion supports policy, and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. There is another question from Mr Graus, who came back to his well-known motion on improving the income model for farmers. He actually asked if I could report what I've done about it. Actually, that's about everything that not only I, but the entire department of the ministry that deals with the agricultural sector, day in and day out. We strengthen the earning model and provide social support and a good fitability within the Netherlands with as little damage as possible to nature, the climate and our living environment. That is what the departments within the Ministry of Economic Affairs that deal with the agricultural sector do on a daily basis. Every letter that the Chamber has received from me over the last year and a half, and before that, from my predecessor, Secretary of State Dijksma, is actually a follow-up to the motion tabled by Mr Graus, because the policy is to do what was in that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u171	I have every confidence in that, too. I'm just asking if I can be kept informed from time to time. This applies not only to me as a petitioner, because I think everyone is entitled to it. I am concerned that a lot of farmers I have contact with, including smaller farmers, say: they pass us and they are not going to hear us. They're talking about the powerful retailers sister and the powerful retailers like that. I want to take that away. I also want to know what I can say to these people. I don't know. It's all happening outside of us. That is why I am asking whether we should know who the actors are and how they are doing. Can we get a factual account or a roadmap? Could we maybe get some interim reports? That can be very short, on an A4's. I don't expect a full report if there's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u172	But this simplifies Mr Graus's own motion. He shouldn't, because he had a very good point with that motion. That is also what I indicated in the first term. For example, the added value of intensive livestock farming for the Dutch economy is 0.09% of our GNP. That is a very small proportion, whereas given the size of intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands, you would expect it to have a greater interest in our economy. But she doesn't. Then it's primary production. This is partly due to the fact that farmers themselves earn so little. The whole policy therefore aims to ensure that farmers themselves can create added value and thus gain a stronger position in the chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u173	Finalizing, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u174	Rounding up. With me, care must also be above speed. So I am not losing my own motion, but I was just asking if we, as spokesmen, could in the meantime find out who is sitting at the table. I would like to know who the actors in practice are who are involved in this, because I have no idea at all about that now. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u175	Secretary of State, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr Graus is actually asking about the daily work of all those people who work in our department for the agricultural sector. They talk to farmers and go to work with farmers, just like myself. We are talking to the umbrella organisations of farmers, to representatives of the supermarkets and to representatives of the supplying industry. We are constantly talking to everyone to realize the policy commitment, namely that farmers themselves can earn more. This requires innovation and change in business models, as I have just advocated in detail. You don't do that overnight. So you haven't improved the income model for farmers overnight. This sometimes requires a very different way of organizing your business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u177	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u178	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-7.u179	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank everyone, including the Secretary of State.
