ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u1	I apologise for these English terms, but that is because the training is formally called that. We're gonna try to keep it going today. I give the floor to the first speaker from the Chamber, Mr Duisenberg, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. The VVD is very enthusiastic about this law to increase the association degree in the Netherlands. Ad-programs are specific for MBO students, but also for havists, by the way, an interesting way to continue learning in HBO. It's an extra specialization on top of the MBO diploma. The two-year course is extremely accessible. Because the training is extremely accessible, it is also much more attractive for MBO graduates. It is not for nothing that the students report to the Rotterdam Academy, the Ad-Training programme of the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences which is best developed, that if they did not do the Ad-Training programme, they probably would not have done any other education in higher education. Since the Ad can also be an intermediate step towards an HBO-bachelor for many MBO graduates, we are in fact talking today about part of the solution to a much wider problem, namely the flow of the MBO to HBO. The Ad thus fulfils an important emancipating function. That is why it is an extra pity that growth has been so limited in recent years. Since 2006, more than ten years ago, Ad's colleges have been able to offer, but growth has been minimal. Today there are 7,000 students in an Ad-program and that is only 2% of the HBO students. The OECD also notes that the Netherlands has relatively little associate degrees. Compared to countries like Germany, Switzerland and Austria, it is not yet a twentieth in the Netherlands. Although the commitment of the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences seemed to change, it continued to drag the chairman of this university to motivate his colleagues to also focus on Ad's. Also from the MBO and especially from MBOs in large cities, vocational schools and agricultural mbos (aocs) you hear that it is difficult and that the demand for Ad's is often not fulfilled. The OECD also notes this in the skills review. It states that the Netherlands has very few Ad's in relation to other countries and concludes as follows. I translated the quote. International experience suggests that short-cycle programs such as the Dutch associate degree are more successful in countries where a set of institutions besides universities and colleges offer them, for example Fachschulen in Germany I haven't translated that into VET colleges and Kollegs in Austria. Associate degrees are less successful in countries where professional universities, colleges, according to the OECD are key agents. Other institutions may be more inclined to set up associate degrees. So much for the quote from the OECD report. I think we have a chance today to get more Ads, which we all want. As I said, this is good for the deepening of the study of MBOs and the flow to the HBO. This bill solves an important bottleneck, namely by giving the associate degree an independent positioning, within the Higher Education Act and disconnected from the existing related hbo-bachelor. However, according to this legislative proposal, there must be other Hbo-bachelors already offered. It is possible for MBO and HBO to set up the Ad together, but under the responsibility of the university and bound to a maximum of 50% of education within the MBO institution. Why the 50%? The VVD would like to remove further barriers and give more space to put the MBO in position and involve it. That is why I have tabled an amendment, which is my first amendment, and I would like to explain it here. As a guiding principle in the legislative proposal, the Minister quotes that the Ad is offered in an environment in which Hbo-bachelor education and practical research are also taking place. This is also the most important approach of the Association of Colleges of High Education when it responds to my amendments. The Association Hogeschoolen says: "The Ad-training programme should be offered as much as possible in an environment in which Hbo-bachelor training and practical research also take place. Ad-training offered in another setting should be an exception. This is to ensure that students come into contact with an HBO study climate." I understand that this is a very logical starting point for colleges that are affiliated to the Association of Colleges of Higher Education. However, I wonder what exactly is an HBO study climate. Is that necessarily a better environment for some reason? Is that so decisive? Is there any way to determine what it is? At the Rotterdam Acadamy at the Pieter de Hoochweg in Rotterdam only associate degrees were held and the teachers went to that building. Is study climate not very subjective and depends on the situation, I wonder. That climate can be very good at one HBO, but not at the other. An associate degree can be even more ambitious. You can also see that much on the vocational schools in the MBO, for example, where the focus and small scale creates an ambitious atmosphere. A specialist MBO or an agricultural MBO, an aoc, can sometimes be much better in a subject or have much better contacts with, for example, the profession field. So why the 50%? I don't understand. Why wasn't it 60%, 40%, 80% or 20%? As far as I am concerned, the 50% is arbitrary and unnecessarily hinders new Ads. That is why I propose in my first amendment to delete that 50%. I would like to point out to my colleagues that it simply remains within the WHW. The Minister must agree. The HBO institution must also agree and make the application itself. There are the same requirements as for any other associate degree course which is given entirely on an HBO. Then there is my second amendment. I can be brief about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u3	Just a minute. I believe that Mr Van der Molen of the CDA Group has a question on the first amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr Duisenberg very much refers to the climate in the HBO. It is intended that the MBOs or havists who opt for an associate degree could take the step to HBO, because they can taste the surroundings. That is exactly the step the CDA considers very important to them. How do you feel about that on behalf of the VVD, Mr Duisenberg? You'll unplug that if you put it in an MBO, in theory.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u5	It is important to be able to take that step, but we are not putting it down as an independent education for nothing. If we now completely emboss it and say that it has to be given for at least half in an HBO environment, you also get that many Ad's don't come off the ground and that many students don't choose to do an Ad. Then you're even further away from home than we both want.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u6	Indeed, we both want as many young people as possible to opt for an associate degree if it suits them and they want it to be. I have another question about the amendment which relates to this and also the criticism from the HBO. If 99% of such an Ad is filled in by an MBO and only that 1% of the examination is done by HBO, isn't that actually a crazy form? You allow an HBO, an institution, to examine, while it cannot guarantee or fully guarantee the quality of the training itself. You're not gonna fill that in. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u7	I think it's crazy to mention a percentage anyway. That's not why I'm doing it myself. The principle is that this is a training set up within higher education. Training still needs to be set up from a university or a legal entity for higher education. So that still has to be done, even if my amendment is adopted. So it remains a piece of education that is jointly designed by a college, an MBO school or anyone else. In any case, I find it very arbitrary to mention a percentage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u8	I do understand Mr Duisenberg's reasoning. I think 50% also sounds a little arbitrary, so I can imagine. But when he asks what an HBO study climate is, I wonder if it is not the most important that it is covered by an HBO institution. For the emancipating function of the Ad Diploma it is important that a student can say: it is under an HBO institution, I go to HBO. Maybe he's the first in his family to go to HBO. Maybe that's the most important thing, more important than the learning sphere or whatever. The student can say: I go to Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences, or Rotterdam Academy. That is why I am a little reluctant when asked to support this. Perhaps Mr Duisenberg can give his views on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u9	At that Rotterdam Academy I made the opening of the academic year three years ago. Those are pure Ad-Training. So you're not in high school specifically. And the ambition blew out of that building. The principle remains that it is a training in higher education which is set up jointly with a university or a legal entity of higher education. It can also be private. You want to set up the best study climate that suits those students. It must also meet the quality conditions of that EQF level 5 and also within the accreditation conditions of the Higher Education Act. I'm gonna go back to that OECD report. It says that one of the reasons why it didn't grow that way in the Netherlands is that we didn't give institutions the room to shape it. So we have not given the space and trust to different institutions to shape this. I believe that we are creating unnecessary obstacles and that this will avoid initiatives at different institutions, or that students will not choose to do so. In a few years, we'll be sorry. All I want to do is remove this obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u10	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u11	That was actually what I wanted to say about my first amendment. I can be brief on my second amendment, because it is in line with what I said before. I would also like to propose that we remove the obstacle to Bachelor's education. I want to make sure that it is also possible for an institution to be fully specialised in associate degrees. Again, a university or legal entity for higher education must take this initiative. After all, the associate degree is an independent training offered within the WHW. That principle remains absolute. I'm rounding up. I began by emphasising the great need for self-training at the level of associate degree. We all feel that great need. I also said that we must note that growth has been disappointing over the last ten years. I have also noted that we are actually talking here about the important subject of the flow from MBO to HBO. The Ad thus has an important emancipating function, which we must facilitate as much as possible. So let us not lose another ten years by still creating unnecessary obstacles. I would find that a huge loss for all those students who are not going to be able to do Ad after all, or who are not going to choose to go to such an education. I would also find it a huge loss for all those training courses that cannot set up an Ad, and for all those employers who would have liked to have hired people at educational level EQF-5. Let's give settings the space and confidence, and let's give the associate degree the full space to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u12	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen, because we have slightly changed the order of the speakers. After Mr Van Meenen, Mr Bishop will speak. Then we go back to the list of speakers. Mr Van Meenen speaks on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. Opportunities for everyone, that's the title of the D66 election program. The idea behind this title is that everyone should have the opportunity to fully develop. Now this often goes wrong with the transition moments in education, for example between primary and secondary education, between secondary education and MBO or higher education and between MBO and HBO. The associate degree should make that step easier for students. It gives MBOs more opportunities to develop and improves their chances in the labour market. With this bill, the associate degree becomes an independent training, making it an attractive route for MBOs or for workers who want to learn further. I am pleased that the Minister has supported the bill by, among other things, looking at automation and digitisation and what impact it will have on the labour market in the coming years. This subject is very important to my party and often remains unlit here. Digitisation offers many opportunities. Yesterday, for example, it appeared that a quarter of ICT companies have a shortage of staff. So there are opportunities for people who are being retrained into ICTs. But there are also risks. More and more jobs will be automated in the coming years and decades. That is not something to be afraid of, but we must prepare ourselves for and ensure that we provide people with the right opportunities for retraining. The associate degree is also part of the solution for this. I still have my doubts about the fact that for a second associate degree the institutional tuition fee must be paid instead of the legal tuition fee and about the degree of selection that may take place, but both are matters that we must regulate throughout higher education and not just for associate degree. As far as D66 is concerned, we are going to ensure that a second study is also affordable and that only training with a lack of perspective on the labour market can be selected. My group looks positively at this law, but, as so often, success depends on its implementation. For example, cooperation between MBO and HBO institutions and business should be encouraged to develop good associate degrees. Such cooperation can be developed in regional associate colleges. Does the Minister agree with me on this? And how will it encourage this cooperation? In addition, the associate degree should also become an attractive route for students to continue for an Hbo-bachelor after completion. HBO settings should provide space for this, for example by recognising subjects. Does the Minister agree with me and how does she ensure that this is encouraged? Finally, the associate degree really needs to become known to companies, so that they know the level of the employees they hire. This also makes the associate degree more attractive to students, as it improves their chances in the labour market. The Minister will provide information on this together with VNO-NCW. Now, in the recent past, with an important legislative proposal, I have seen that the information was not quite perfect. In my text, an employee has now written in brackets: loan system, tongue in cheek. There are also some shortcomings in the provision of information in the case of choice of study. How is the Minister going to prevent that from happening? Information is crucial to the success of the associate degree. I have another question about the letter of amendment. It regulates the connection of higher education institutions to the Basic Register of Education and the Diploma Register. That is very good in itself, but I am a little concerned about one sentence in the explanatory statement. It says that "for other policy purposes too" may be important to have access to these personal data. Now goal binding is an important principle in privacy law. You may only collect data for a particular purpose and not collect it first and then come up with a purpose. The purpose of the note is now to implement notification and registration procedures. Can the Minister reassure me and assure me that access to the registers will only be used for this purpose? Finally, a word about Mr Duisenberg's amendments. One regulates that MBO institutions themselves should be able to offer the entire associate degree. The other provides that the funded higher education institution or a legal person may also exist if only associate degrees are offered. In my speech, I set out two objectives: to improve the transition from MBO to HBO and to improve retraining and retraining opportunities for workers. I don't think it's good for that transition when an MBO institution takes care of the entire associate degree. I would then like to join in the brief debate on the interruption that took place between Mr Van der Molen and Mr Duisenberg. I am therefore not in favour of the amendment. As far as the second amendment is concerned, I await the Minister's response. I can imagine that the private providers of higher education can certainly focus on the retraining of workers by offering only associate degrees, but then there must be this need. Otherwise, this amendment will solve a problem that does not exist. Can the Minister indicate if she has received signals from funded or private institutions that want to focus on offering associate degrees alone? I myself know that, for example, the AOC Council has said that there is a need to be able to do so. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this should become a general rule. How does it interpret this amendment? My tendency is to do it, if it becomes possible, only by way of extreme exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u14	We are still hearing the response to the second amendment. I'd say as much space as possible. Those are words you often use yourself. Trust the field of education, I'd say. On the first amendment, the following. The amendment does not propose that it should certainly not say that it should be possible from the MBO alone to set up an Ad. It's still something for a college. The amendment is about the arbitrary 50%. I just want to make the link with the associate lectures, that collaboration between MBO and HBO. Do you agree with me that, if you get such an associate college, it is a pity to work together between MBO and HBO, if you are going to limit that in advance in the law by stating that at least 50% of education must be provided by HBO, in an environment where HBO-bachelor education and practical research are also taking place? So you set pre-conditions in the law. That is limiting for those beautiful associate lectures you like, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u15	Mr Duisenberg knows that I have a shudder for Hague standards. This is one of those. I understand that very well. At the same time, I seem to agree with Mr Van der Molen, and not with Mr Duisenberg, that it is good for the status of associate degree when it takes place in an HBO environment. I have also heard your contribution, I say to Mr Duisenberg. You ask what exactly that is. That's an HBO setting, for example. We have to assume that; we have to talk about trust. So yes, 50% is always tricky. For me it does not need to be cut with scissors, but that relationship with an institution that also provides bachelor's education is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u16	With these framework conditions that are now laid down in the law, that Hague standard, a restriction is imposed on beautiful initiatives from education. This may mean that for certain courses there are no associate degrees or only associate degrees for courses whose higher education location is at a distance from students, which ultimately means that they choose to abandon them. It will then be obstructed, while we want to exploit this potential as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u17	It is complicated, I agree with Mr Duisenberg. I also see that good things can happen, even if the rules are different. I am always from the adage "you should not have too many rules; you should above all be able to have exceptions to the rule," but I believe that this amendment removes the whole rule. I think that's a big deal. So I would like to focus on something else. That is why I ask the Minister in what cases she sees the need, or at least a very sharp demand from the institutions, for this kind of action to be taken. Then maybe we can do something with that, but to throw that whole rule overboard, I think that's quite something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u18	That would have brought you to the end of your contribution. Then I give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u19	Allow me to say one more thing, Mr President. For all kinds of reasons, I have to leave the meeting. Those are very good reasons; you can assume that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u20	That's what I'm assuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u21	We will, of course, continue to follow the debate, because, as I said, we are also very interested in the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u22	Sometimes it's no different. You're excused. Then I give the floor to Mr Bishop of the SGP for his contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u23	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank those Members who are so willing to give me a higher place on the list of speakers, because I have a problem similar to that of Mr D66. Falling between shore and ship, that feeling can be felt by a MBO who after his training needs further training, while the step towards full HBO training is perceived as too great. It would be nice if there were a way between the MBO and the HBO. There is at present the so-called association degree. In practice, however, it appears that this intermediate route is a narrow path, not to say a kind of goat path. It continues to look for the specific added value of this training. The SGP is positive about the bill to regulate an associate degree's independent position. The aim is to increase the attractiveness of training. There is still enough work to be done with regard to the awareness of the associate degree. My first question concerns that. Does the Minister consider that the term "associated degree" helps to increase awareness and familiarity with this form of training? I cannot entirely escape the impression that the term is not very suitable for unraveling feelings of recognition and for evoking all kinds of positive associations. Maybe we should look for another indication. I'd like to hear the Minister on that. The SGP has a few questions about how the associate degree is positioned in the bill. The government clearly sees training as part of higher education. Greetings! I agree. At the same time, it is possible to shape training in practice for as much as half of it in secondary vocational education. How does this theoretical positioning relate to the possible practice? Where does the 50% standard actually come from? Is this standard purely symbolic and indicative or would there really be problems in practice if, for example, the share of MBO were to be 70%? In short, we do need a more detailed explanation on this point. The SGP also wonders whether the substantive requirements offer sufficient scope to allow the associate degree to be a more attractive option. The government opts for a study period of 120 points. So that's two years of study. Why does it have to be so strictly regulated? The question is whether the length and added value of this training are sufficiently in proportion to each other. Does a two-year training programme have enough to offer to compete in the labour market or would students opt for full HBO training rather and more easily? I would like to hear more from the Minister. The legislative proposal also contains a strange one, namely the advisory committee to assist the minister in taking far-reaching decisions on the sense of social responsibility of institutions. The committee is the result of an extremely flexible attitude of the First Chamber in what the First Chamber itself sees as a point of principle. Now this point is added as a letter of amendment to this bill. That is an original route, but you could say on the basis of the commitment of the government in the First Chamber that this part should be assessed in conjunction with the bill that has already been passed in the First Chamber. Actually, the letter of amendment is a kind of novelle on the other law. In view of the state of affairs, the SGP would not find it strange if the Council of State were to be asked for its opinion on this matter again. When it comes to the composition of the advisory committee, the SGP signals a certain one-sidedness. The government states that the ministerial arrangement will provide for the committee to have expertise in education law and equal treatment. For other expertise, the committee will possibly involve externals. Of course, it is obvious that the committee itself should be competent in the field of education law. In our view, however, the choice of equal treatment as a specialty is rather arbitrary from the broad social perspective, the perspective of social responsibility. Given the problems we have so far, it is not even so obvious to focus specialism on equal treatment. Let me give you the following example. At the Islamic University in Rotterdam, for example, much more play the limits of freedom of expression. Freedom of religion, freedom of association and academic freedom can also be considered. The SGP therefore recommends that the expertise that the Committee itself should have should not be limited in advance to just equal treatment, but also to the wider spectrum of fundamental rights. The bill indicates that committee members must comply with the requirements for designation as a judicial official. I should like to hear more from the government about this. Does that mean that the committee members must have completed legal training? That would seem very thin. In that case, it is very complicated to refer to the Law on the legal status of judicial officials. If this is not the case, what further professional requirements are envisaged? In fact, the Law on the legal status of civil servants has the possibility to impose more detailed requirements for various functions. It is important, in our view, that there should be clarity about this at this stage, so that we do not have endless discussions about it later, which could in fact undermine the credibility of such an advisory committee. We therefore look forward to an explanation from the Minister on this point. I would like to thank you very much for your willingness. Know that I will leave you all with melancholy in the heart. That feels like abandoning all these friends and friends, but I'm pulling myself together and I'm gonna go later. But your answers are being followed breathlessly, Minister. You can be assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u24	You are right to say "just now," Mr Bishop. That is true, because you have not yet left the Chamber, since Mr Duisenberg has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u25	Yes, I would like to ask Mr Bishop to stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u26	I was thinking: Mr Duisenberg is bringing up his amendments!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u27	No. I hear Mr Bishop hitting that 50%. I feel the need to clarify this discussion a little bit, also because it is an important point for me. Mr Bishop also asked where this 50% came from and whether it should not be 30% or 70%. I had the same question: isn't it a Hague standard that only unnecessarily hinders? I have a question following the plans of Aeres Hogeschool with the Groenhorst College in Barneveld regarding a possible Ad for veterinary practice manager. Could that be an example of an AD that is actually being obstructed if you set a Hague standard that 50% should be kept in a college environment? Isn't it a pity if such initiatives didn't go ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u28	Yeah, once. I can also imagine that there will be as much thought about a certain bandwidth or a certain margin of manoeuvre in its design, depending on the training it involves. The MBO event can in some cases get a little more accent than the HBO share. I would like to make that clear, and that is why I am asking. It can strengthen the concept and increase accessibility, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u29	Yeah, so we're in agreement. It's good to talk about that. Does Mr Bishop agree with me that the guiding principle here is that it is a training at EQR5 level, which meets certain quality standards under the Higher Education Act, and for which a university of higher education continues to bear the responsibility? We are not going to change that, but it is true that this kind of standards or percentages are a bit crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u30	Yes, I said at the beginning of my speech that, as far as we are concerned, there really is an HBO stamp on it. It is therefore covered by the Higher Education Act. The question is, how exactly do you shape that? This indicates exactly where the tension field lies; between mbo and hbo. You're looking for a solution that can serve a certain category of students.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u31	I give the floor to Mr Özdil, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u32	Mr. Chairman. Our country is the land of opportunity and of progress. This is largely due to the way in which we train young people into the labour market. Vocational training is made up of different levels and benefits from the flow between these levels. From an MBO-2 education to HBO, you should be able to try anything to find what suits you. This is how we ensure that businesses get the labour they need. But much more important: so young people can find their own place, between all the levels and training that our country is rich. For those who wish to do additional training or for students who have already completed MBO-4 training, a full four-year HBO course is sometimes superfluous, as is for the high school student who wants to move quickly to the labour market. Hence, an associate degree will take a nice place in the educational offer. This is also a solution for workers who want to learn. That is why I am pleased that an associate degree can also be achieved part-time. The associate degree programme already exists, of course, but is given its own legal status by this law. This is also a way of getting rid of business. GroenLinks is therefore positive about this legislative amendment. The thresholds in our education system for students who are just starting a new education are the most vulnerable moments for those students. Then they often fall out and when the flow is not properly regulated, they stop learning. This transition must be guaranteed especially for students who wish to receive full HBO training after an associate degree. They should also be able to take a lot of points to the next level. My colleague Bishop just referred to it. Previously, the requirement was that, after an associate degree programme, graduation on an HBO would take up to 150 credits, or two and a half years. Does the Minister believe that this should still be the goal and, if not, why not? As a replacement, an obligation for HBO institutions is included. Is it the aim of the associate degree to ensure that there is at least one HBO course? The fact that a graduate student with an associate degree has to start all over again on an HBO programme does not seem to me to be something we should want. Mr Duisenberg tabled a number of amendments aimed at ensuring that other trainers and HBO institutions can also offer associate degrees. That is also the thrust of Mr Beertema's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u33	On the previous point, Mr Futselaar of the SP has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u34	It's about the flow. There's a certain contradiction. If the Ad needs to be independent, have an independent curriculum and perhaps have to be more practice-oriented, then you should actually accept that the flow to HBO or perhaps a Bachelor's programme takes a little longer. If the curriculum is largely comparable, you can no longer speak of a separate diploma. If we want to make the flow to the bachelor's office easy, we actually undermine the independence of the Ad diploma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u35	In my view, it is not necessarily the intention that associate degree should be directed towards practice. It's just a stepping stone to an academic, literary situation. Furthermore, it is already possible that students may pass through the MBO or the HBO after completing a training course. We have introduced the bama system without too many obstacles. The fact that associate degree is an end product, as Mr Futselaar rightly points out, does not mean that it should create a new barrier for students who want to continue after obtaining an Ad diploma. That does not seem to me to be the right way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u36	The Ad that Mr Özdil now describes almost reminds me of a kind of candidate exam within an Hbo-bachelor. After two years you'll have an Ad and then you can continue towards your bachelor, but I don't think that's really the purpose of this bill. This bill says independent. The Ad is not even connected to existing Bachelor's programmes anymore; it is truly independent. I think we're going another way. Does Mr Özdil agree with me on this? I'd almost ask him if he'd vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u37	I fully agree with Mr Futselaar's analysis, but he just put words in my mouth that I did not use at all. I repeat my answer. The fact that the associate degree is also a final product, a final diploma, does not mean that students are not allowed to continue to flow. I do not think that this is desirable at any level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u38	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u39	The amendments tabled by Mr Duisenberg and Mr Beertema, which I have just spoken about, make it possible for institutions to offer only associate degrees. That doesn't seem like a good idea. The embedding in an HBO is, in my opinion, an essential aspect of the associate degree. Contacts with fellow students, lecturers and researchers at an HBO institution are very valuable parts of the new programme. That is why I am not so enthusiastic about associate degrees where more than 50% of MBO education takes place. Don't get me wrong: MBO institutions are wonderful examples of good education rich in crafts. In the MBO the emphasis is on mastering a profession; there you often learn in practice. As an employer, you then wonder what the added value of an associate degree programme is at that level. In our view, it is precisely in connection with higher education. The degree of association must be linked to a higher level of vocational training for a good reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr Duisenberg, who tabled the amendment, has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u41	I was just trying to understand Mr Özdil's reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u42	Good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u43	This is also a bit along the lines of Mr Futselaar's interruption of the independent position. From the first part of Mr Özdil's reasoning, I understand that an Ad is only an HBO education if Bachelor's training is provided at the school in question. According to this bill, an associate degree is intended to be an independent training course in higher vocational education? That is by definition what this law proposes. That is precisely the independent position, but it is clearly not worth it to Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u44	I would like to put the question back. If we follow Mr Duisenberg's reasoning, you could also ask: why would you want to put it all on the MBO? It is an independent self-training course between MBO and HBO, but it is aimed at connecting to higher education. Now there is already the possibility to do 45% to 50% of the associate degree on the MBO, and that is fine with me. However, there is no reason to make that more than 50%. Colleagues have already mentioned it: what you do is let the MBOs carry out the tasks and let the HBOs do the checks. That's not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u45	Then Mr Özdil will have to read the amendment again, because it is still just a higher education course, including the amendment. I will outline the consequence of GroenLinks' tight stance and sticking to the 50%. The Van Hall Larenstein University of Technology is carrying out an associate degree, which already exists and which is called integral enforcement environmental law, now in Leeuwarden, but would also very much like to perform it at the Wellantcollege, which is located in Noord-Holland, Zuid-Holland and Utrecht. Mr Özdil's position would mean that such initiatives, such as Ad's, would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u46	Mr Duisenberg is now presenting an individual case, but the facts remain the same. I have read the amendment very well. It is already possible to allow up to 50% of the Ad training to take place on an MBO, so that hardly stands in the way of cooperation. The involvement in a higher education institution is part of the reason for the existence of the associate degree programme. The associate degree programme should at least first stand on its own feet and have become a clear form of education before institutions other than HBOs should be able to offer them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u47	Let me get this straight: my amendment to item No. 12 does not imply that there should be an even greater share of MBO in the Ad-Training programmes. With my amendment, I merely wanted the Ad-Trainings to think physically about the building, the office, the building hooking up with a rocket or the campus of a rocket, in order to enhance the appearance of these MBO trainings. So that doesn't affect the content of the law. I just wanted to clarify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u48	I have the same answer: the idea of associate degree is involvement in HBO, with HBO teachers, near a place where research is being done. It really has to be a supplement to an MBO-4 diploma and a way to an HBO diploma. If MBOs also start offering associate degrees, there is a risk that associate degrees will become MBO-plus training rather than HBO-min courses in practice. It is already possible to have close cooperation of up to 50%, and that seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u49	I'm not saying mbos should start offering ad-training. I am quite satisfied with the law and I have only asked questions about the place where that training is given. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u50	If Mr Beertema is satisfied with the law, I think it is right that he should not table an amendment. Mr. Chairman. Contacts with fellow students, lecturers and researchers at an HBO institution are very valuable parts of the new programme. That is why I am not so enthusiastic about associate degrees for which more than 50% of education takes place on an MBO. It is highly advisable to work with MBO institutions because this is already possible up to 50%, but the majority of the lessons must take place at HBO, at least until the associate degree has developed into a strong, independent type of training with a clear profile of its own. Mr Van der Molen, together with Mr Bruins, has also tabled an amendment (34678, No. 13) submitted. He would like to see an intermediary between the labour market and the associate degrees. It is a new education, which is now on its own feet. I do not think we need to come up with a ministerial arrangement to record this. My group is therefore not very enthusiastic about this addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u51	There's room in there. Mr Özdil is not very enthusiastic, so I can help him with that. For MBO institutions, of course, it is already true that, even if they start new training courses, which are new and must stand on their own feet, we have, precisely by this legal entity SBB, arranged the involvement of business with the way in which we put this education together. So also for new MBO training in this case, whatever will apply to associate degrees. So it's not very unusual in itself. I would like to hear from Mr Özdil whether I have made him a little more enthusiastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u52	Mr Van der Molen is quite right when he says that I choose my words carefully. That's right, I said not right away. That is why I am also open to looking into this further and, among other things, to see what it means by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u53	I would ask you to continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u54	The Protection Names and Degrees Act also aimed to record something else. My colleague Bishop already referred to that. Universities and colleges now have an active duty to take social responsibility towards their students. The ultimate means that the Minister can use is to deprive an institution of its power to grant degrees. A teacher who makes a statement that is not, I quote, conducive to the sense of social responsibility, can then be dealt with by the training or, if necessary, by the Minister. That may seem harmless, but what would be the effect of this? The direct cause was indeed in the very despicable statements of the rector of the Islamic University of Rotterdam, but should we, because of such a figure and his abject statements, go to pieces with the principles of academic freedom in our country? Let me give you an example. A teacher who was involved in the occupation of the Virgin House assumes his social responsibility by condemning the funding of the education system. However, some Members here in the Chamber do not agree 100%. To impose socially responsible statements from above does not fit in a free country, and certainly not statements specifically aimed at educational institutions that are supposed to be the bastion of free thought and free speech. That is why I am grieved that a minister will make that decision, not the judge. The concept of political correctness must be taken very literally when scientists can be called upon by the Minister of Education. This is contrary to freedom of expression and to academic freedom. It should not be Turkish situations here! By the way, it is also very shaky under state law. Hence also the SGP with progressive parties like D66 and GroenLinks majorityed. The First Chamber had similar criticism. Eventually, the law was approved in the First Chamber, provided that a committee of skilled lawyers would advise the Minister in this area. With this law, that committee is set up for advice. My question to the Minister is: how much freedom will she and her successors have to deviate from the committee's opinion? That must be well-founded and the reason for departing from an opinion must also be sent to our Chamber. Hopefully it will not often happen that a college or university is called upon to fire someone, but by giving the Hague politics a role in this, that opportunity will be increased. It would not be the first time that members of this Chamber have called for the resignation of an academic. That is a very bad thing, precisely because we, as politicians, must also be able to rely on a fair and independent science. Whether it is research into climate change or research into historical political concepts, politics needs free philosophy and free science to make the right choice. In order to ensure this independent role, therefore, something more should be done than just the Minister's statement that the committee's opinion will certainly not be lightly handled by its successors. The Council of State had already criticized this article when it was introduced. We believe that this criticism was well founded. That's why I was wondering why we didn't ask for an opinion from the Council of State on this part of the bill. I would like to know whether, according to the Council of State, the independence of that committee has been secured. Will the intention to appoint the members of the committee be public? Are there any objective criteria for what is socially responsible? I therefore wonder whether the committee's review framework will still be submitted to the Chamber. Finally. It is not the role of politics to dismiss academics for statements and opinions. That's the role of the judge. But if it is going to happen, I want at least to ensure that the criteria are as objective and as neutral as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u55	I do not think Mr Özdil can be persuaded. I'd like to ask him the following question. I will give him an example of the consequences of his position. At the beginning of his speech, Mr Özdil said that the associate degree is particularly attractive for part-time education and is therefore also very good for lifelong learning. I agree with him. People who work can also do association degree training part-time. But does Mr Özdil also realise that sticking to this Hague standard, which is 50%, means that, for example, people who want to do an Ad-Education programme in green education, will have to continue to travel to the location where the HBO environment is that Mr Özdil would very much like? As a result, they will no longer do so, because they are not going to travel a distance after work in order to be able to follow that training. It is thus actually made less accessible by Mr Özdil's position. He's going against his own goals. I'm so sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u56	Mr Duisenberg comes here with an example. If you were to go through that example, you'd have to get rid of lifelong learning. Then no one should go on a journey to improve his knowledge, to take a course or to take an education. So I don't really see what his point is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u57	Mr Duisenberg wishes to make another point. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u58	If you live at the canals of Amsterdam, you may not notice it that way. But if you live in Barneveld or in Zwolle or Kampen or somewhere in the head of Noord-Holland, you will suffer from this. Perhaps it would also be good for Mr Özdil to go into the country once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u59	I am happy to accept Mr Duisenberg's remark for notification. As someone who grew up in Heusden, Brabant until his 9th birthday and lived in Rotterdam-Zuid until last year, I think that is a wonderful remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u60	It's gonna be fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u61	As a Zwollean I feel obliged to say that Zwolle knows some very large and very good MBO and college institutions. So you can actually go there in almost any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u62	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u63	I call Mr Bertema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mr Beertema, who is a fascist according to the absolutely independent standards of the honourable Professor Rob Riemen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u65	Look at that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u66	There you go! This goes by Mr Özdil. He's, I think, still too excited. Mr. Chairman. The PVV welcomes this bill. We have always had a warm heart to associate degrees, especially for reasons of emancipation and upliftment. The two-year-old Ad programmes provide an important question from the best mbo's who want to study after their training but do not want or cannot take Bachelor's degree. This training opportunity is really going to contribute to craftsmanship and craftsmanship, even after level 4, which is actually already a specialist training course. The Ad programme will be an absolute top education for the best and the brightest that the MBO has in its home. Ad-training strongly contributes to our small and medium-sized enterprises, to our manufacturing industry, which is so terribly important, and to our knowledge-based economy in general, in a way that we must not underestimate. It is a good thing that associate degree training becomes an independent training, independent of the Hbo-bachelor. I have sometimes argued in the past to position the Ad programmes according to the model of the vm2 courses, where I am always so crazy. Those trajectories were physically housed in the VMBOs. The program was designed in close cooperation between vmbo and roc. For example, I would have liked to see the Ad embedded in the MBO, also physically, in close collaboration with the HBO. That is not going to happen and I think that is a missed opportunity, but as far as I am concerned, this second best education is working well. We're gonna see how that's gonna work out. Still, I'd like to explain why I wanted that connection with the MBO so badly. Do you remember what it was like in the MBO? There were meaos and mts'. There were high-school retail schools. Those were top-level schools where employers were at the gates to offer the students with the highest grades a job. All these fine courses have gone to waste in the fusion violence with which we go there again to attack all those left-wing stormers in education: big, bigger, biggest was the adadium, up to 40,000 students in rocks. They were superintendents, too big to fail, busy with banking and real estate positions. They were busy with everything, except education. In those years, the MBO's reputation has gotten a huge pinch. With the addition of what was once the training work, in the MBO levels 1 and 2, the quality of the real vocational training, 3 and 4, deteriorated enormously. There was an overfocus at the lowest levels, because the presidents of the CoBs were also very ambitious politically. They put their rocks at the service of that left-wing agenda. They would ensure that mass immigration in the big cities would be facilitated in the field of education: all these boys and girls a diploma. If it could no longer be done with proper training and examinations, then with competence-driven education, in which everyone eventually achieved a qualification, regardless of the level, the knowledge and the competences. For example, I myself delivered a whole generation of executive secretaries in that competence education, each one of whom was unable to complete a simple standard note and who had the greatest difficulty in writing a composite sentence without fault. All a diploma and all flowed to Inholland, where I then worked in Rotterdam-Zuid for the HBO programme Event Management. That's what I think it was called. This is the core of the story as teachers experienced in the MBO back then. With bleeding hard we saw the craftsmanship and craftsmanship go down. I remember a fellow metal who had a child at the age of the Cito test. He took everything out of the closet to prevent his child from getting VMBO advice: tutoring, training and heavy conversations with the school. At my question why he did that, he said, and I found that very sad: with a vmbo advice she was sentenced to the MBO, then she comes on a rock. It had come to this: teachers who should be proud of their school and their education did everything to prevent their own child from going there. That was extremely depressing. Things have improved in recent years, fortunately, in the MBO and in the HBO. There's been a quality hit. But that's far from enough to give the rocks the reputation that the meaos and the mts had. For that, much more needs to be focussed on that craftsmanship than there is now. To this end, the appearance of these rocks also needs to be improved much more. There is now a golden opportunity to boost that reputation. We can do that by placing top-level training in the rocks. It is then called the associate degree programme and comes into the same building where the boys and girls of level 3 and 4 educations are. They run into each other in the break room. They know each other in their own educational community. Thus, the Ad-Trainings become a role model to strive for. For example, these Ad's stimulate the ambition of all those other participants in levels 2, 3 and 4. The roc gets the chance to share in the shine of ambition, of quality, of the success that the Ad-training has, if it is physically housed in the roc's. As I have said before, it is better to be a top level education in the MBO sector than the lowest level of training in the HBO sector. That would have been the Ad, if it had been embedded in the HBO. It would have been the lowest education of an HBO institution, which actually wants to be a university light. That's a step-kid. When moving in on roc's which is a bad word that actually is, but I think it is the right word anyway, the associate degree becomes the highest goal to strive for. Hence my proposal to embrace this law. I do so with the addition that Ad-training as self-employed training must be physically included in the roc's, precisely in view of that agenda of upliftment and emancipation. I have also tabled an amendment to that effect. Finally, Mr President. The Dutch language as a language of education, culture and science is seriously threatened by English, so serious that the constitutional task of the minister and of the government to protect Dutch is gradually being violated. That's a big annoyance for a lot of people. With the name "associated degree," another step is taken on the path of that marginalization of that beautiful language of ours. That is why I would like to ask the Minister to come up with a suitable Dutch name for this beautiful new education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr Beertema asks while he walks by in front of me if he can take the three minutes he has left with him to another debate. Well, that's not gonna happen! I give the floor to Mr Futselaar for his contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr. Chairman. We could talk about "associated degree" instead of "associated degree," but I honestly do not think that this will increase its popularity. Self-employed training with its own labour market position, the independent associate degree, can be a very good means of encouraging graduate MBO students to continue studying if they think they are unable to handle a full HBO-bachelor. It also gives an extra chance to workers who want to continue their studies during their careers. In the Netherlands, such possibilities are still far too limited. Furthermore, it stimulates flowing through the HBO in a different way. These are all positive effects, and that is why the SP is in favour of this bill. With all the experiences that have been gained so far in the country with Ad's, the model of Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences is most obvious. They chose to organise the Ads independently as much as possible now, not only independently of existing training courses but even physically at their own location and with their own independent organisation. This is also important, according to the SP, to promote cohesion in such training. Perhaps it would be better to say "coherence" and to have a good specific approach in the field of study efficiency, for example, which is in line with a specific target group. It is not uncommon for students who follow an Ad-Project to come from an environment where higher education is not self-evident. Sometimes they may even be the first in the family to take a step further on the education market. The Rotterdam example deserves to be followed and we are therefore pleased with the choice for an independent interpretation of the programme. We are also pleased because in the current situation we see risks in the combination of Ad and Bachelor. We hope that this proposal will meet that, but we would like to ask about it. What we don't want is for HBO institutions to use the Ads as a sort of... I don't want to use the word "drainhole" because we want to put the Ads as an important education. So we do not want them to direct students whose expectations it is or whose experience in practice teaches them that they are less able to participate in an HBO-bachelor course, towards the associate degree. We want this law to have an emancipatory effect and that would become completely out of sight. The Minister said earlier in reply to questions that this effect would not be so bad, but we are still wondering how we can prevent it. How do you prevent, for example, HBO training from sending them to intake interviews? How do you prevent an intake interview from saying, "Well, maybe you should go to that Ad-training of ours"? We know that we have problems with students with an MBO background and there is therefore a certain motivation for colleges to do so, if they look purely financially. According to the debt system monitor, some parties continue to call the euphemist "the social loan system".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Also for students in the second year of a bachelor, who have survived the moment of the binding study advice, it can be a financial incentive if they hear from the HBO institution: you are slowing down, you know what: go into the Ad-program. This can now be relatively easy because these training courses are linked. We hope that it will be more difficult when the Ad journey is made more independent. The Minister states in her note on the report that she considers the idea that an Ad is being used for this purpose, for that outflow, to be very undesirable. We agree with her that this is very undesirable, but the question is how to prevent it. How do we monitor that? What guarantees do we ask for in this area of institutions? I am not very keen to propose that extra legislation be introduced here. It is really about implementation, but we have to make good agreements about it with each other. I would like to mention a second hypothetical case that can be used in the current system. Imagine, you have a Bachelor's degree, with a connected Ad-education. The Bachelor's programme has too little student entry and the university decides to abolish it. As a college, you have a duty of care for the sitting students. You gotta do something with that. Actually, you have to teach those students for three, four years. That's really annoying, considering you're actually trying to get rid of that education. Then it's very tempting to push, in the vein of: you want to be done quickly, we want you to be done quickly, why don't you go on that Ad journey? That is the kind of abuse that I should like to call it, which we want colleges to prevent. I think this proposal is a step in the right direction, but we do want to ensure that it remains so when the Ad becomes a success: an independent training course with an independent curriculum. If you do that, the consequence is that Ad-trainings should not have a large overlap with regular bachelor's programmes within the HBO and that there should therefore be no great degree of connection. It is right to call for a separate curriculum. That is also provided for in the bill, but it has consequences for the flow. After all, if you have a separate independent curriculum, then it would obviously not be very easy to pass on to an Hbo-bachelor without any study delay. Otherwise, the curriculum of the first two years of the Bachelor's programme is apparently very similar to that of the Ad. We do not think that is desirable, partly because of the potential abuse I have just identified. The introduction of the Ad requires adjustments at educational institutions, but also at employers' level. This has been discussed before. In general, it is clear that employers are positive about the phenomenon of associate degree, but we also get signals that this does not translate sufficiently into jobs specifically targeted at Ad's. That can be cold feet with employers or simply lack of knowledge. A good perspective for the Ad would be that it is a diploma that leads to appropriate work. This is necessary for the success of the associate degree, and the Minister will also have to act as an ambassador to industry in order to make it clear that this diploma is there, that it is valuable and that employers must also contribute to it. Finally, the various amendments that are before us. I am still hesitant with my support at the moment. In a way, we are re-launching the Ad here today, if we approve it. It already exists, but this is still a new form, perhaps a new form outside Rotterdam, and it must be successful. If you say that it has to be placed in rocks as much as possible, I really do understand that consideration. If you say: we need to make it possible to start training courses that only offer Ad's. Who knows what kind of commercials would like to do that? I'm afraid that might undermine its success. I have to chew on Mr Duisenberg's amendment, because I would also like to wait and see what the Minister says about that 50%. Indeed, I think it sounds arbitrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u69	Mr. Chairman. When I heard Mr Bertema talk about the rock he had experience with, I was reminded of the rock where I started as a student. That was neither left nor very bad, because if it had been bad and left, I would not have ended up in the CDA group, I think. We're all sympathetic. In many places in the Netherlands we have seen the emergence of associate degree programmes in recent years. And not only in Rotterdam, I notice. I've gone over the list and I've noticed that there's some kind of spread. It is now really time to turn these Ad's into full-fledged training. The CDA therefore wholeheartedly supports the bill submitted to us by the Minister. We especially appreciate the associate degree programmes because they are a good opportunity for MBOs to move on, first of all to the Ad itself as an independent training course with a good level that you can come up with. After that, they may be able to go on to an HBO degree. The CDA distanced itself from the idea that Ad-Training should be introduced in order to increase the number of higher-educated people in the Netherlands. That shouldn't be the target. We are really talking about filling in a lack of level between MBO and HBO in vocational training. The CDA supports the joint provision of Ad-Programmes by MBO and HBO institutions. As far as we are concerned, that should be the standard in practice. For us it is important that the diploma is recognised in the labour market and that Ad-training is seen as part of higher vocational education. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions raised by our group in the report. On most of our points we are reassured by the answer, but the CDA continues to have a number of concerns. From conversations we have had with various HBO institutions we hear that HBOs can be reluctant to start an Ad-training because of the funding, the t-2 cost. Now that is no different for the other HBO courses. You're gonna have to start that too. If we look at the not overwhelming interest in the pilot, this is a justification for the question to the Minister whether she recognizes this sound and whether she might see funding opportunities in this area to reduce restraint. We also heard more often that HBO institutions are more inclined to start an HBO master than an Associate Degree course. Let me be very clear. As indicated earlier, the CDA attaches importance to the dual system of higher education in which colleges and universities each have their unique position. A university should above all not feel too good to go for an associate degree programme and should not want to play college in all cases. Can the Minister state her views on this matter? Then there is the link between Ad-training and the labour market. It is not for nothing that the minister chooses to join the MBO. It is also a question of vocational training. In the MBO it is laid down by law that the declining field of occupation must be involved in the establishment of new training. This legislative proposal is in line with the legislation for HBO which, in accordance with the macro-efficiency test, requires the institution to demonstrate the need for training, but does not regulate the involvement of industry in the design of the training. The CDA considers this involvement of business to be very important for the MBO and therefore also for an Ad-Training. The CDA considers this all the more important because the Ad-Training programmes can also partly be provided by MBO institutions. It is therefore logical to increase the involvement of business. This has also been included in the Education and Vocational Training Act. That is why, together with my colleague Bruins from the Christian Union, I have tabled an amendment to regulate this for the Ad-Training in HBO. We now have a chance to get this right from the start. We also ask the Minister to make an extra effort to raise the awareness of employers with the aim and content of Ad-Training. In particular, in the coming years, it may be difficult for employers to define exactly the value of the Ad Diploma. Can the Minister indicate what action she will take in addition to this law to prevent students with an Ad-Education programme from getting into work because the employer does not know exactly what the value of the diploma is? Would it not only inform the Chamber about this policy, but also report periodically to the Chamber on the opportunities for graduates in the labour market? On 18 May the results of the National Student Survey came out. This showed that the appreciation of Ad-students for internship guidance had fallen and was lowest compared to all other higher education courses. We ask the Minister to respond to this. We also ask her to pay explicit attention to this aspect in the accreditation of new training courses, because this needs to be done much better. I would like a commitment in this area. Unfortunately, the Minister has not been able to reassure us on the issue of MBOs and loan fears. Again, the most recent policy monitor shows that, among other things, MBO students flow less to HBO than to the introduction of the loan system. We will discuss this with the Minister at another time. Finally, a point which was referred back from the First Chamber to the Second Chamber via a novelle, namely the Minister's power to act in the event of discriminatory statements under the Protection Names and Degrees of Higher Education Act. In our time-limit for dealing with it, we have taken this into account. The CDA asks whether it is possible for a stepped-up system to be put in place whereby the Minister designates the Supervisory Board as the institution's supervisor to put matters in order with regard to the functioning of the person concerned. According to the Minister, could this be in line with Chapter 9 of the WHW for WW, Article 9.9a and Article 9.51 (2) and Chapter 10 respectively for Higher Education? I'll give it to you in a minute, Minister. I understand you can't write it with me. This includes ways of combating maladministration. Is the Minister prepared to seek further advice from the Council of State on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-10.u70	We will continue at 6.30 p.m. with the VAO Agriculture and Fisheries Council. Then I will suspend for dinner, then we will give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions of the Chamber and continue the debate. We are very sorry, but it is not possible otherwise in view of the agenda.
