ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	April 26th Sharper: 2.0 on the Richter scale. May 3, Stedum: 1.5 on the Richter scale. May 9 Emmen: 1.6 on the Richter scale. May 16 Overschild: 1.7 on the Richter scale. May 27 Slochteren: 2.6 on the Richter scale. Five earthquakes with a force of at least 1.5 on the Richter scale in a month. Saturday the 1,391st quake, the heaviest in two years, all induced or the result of human action, the action of this cabinet. It doesn't stop. People feel despondent. Mr. Chairman. I want to know what the minister's gonna do next. Is the gas extraction going down now? In the week when the NAM, Shell and Exxon show that they only care about their wallet and possibly go to court to prevent the reduction in gas extraction, Groningers must once again worry about new damage. On Saturday, dozens of houses were damaged again. Those cases are not being treated right now. Damage to other tremors is not recognised, because those houses would be in a so-called outlying area. Residents have to wait in their broken house and that while the region of the Groningen Soil Movement, the Gasberaad, the provincial government and municipal authorities have already prepared a plan to make good the damage well, quickly and generously. All the Minister has to do is say yes. I'd like to ask the Minister if he's finally saying yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman rightly calls for attention to be paid to the earthquake that has occurred in the Slochteren area. Earthquakes that are more powerful than 1.5 on the Richter scale can usually be felt. The 2.6 earthquake on the Richter scale is not only felt and has caused unrest in the area, but has also caused damage. Ninety-seven reports of damage have been received by now. This reflects the gravity of the situation, not only around this earthquake, but also in a general sense. There is still an earthquake problem in Groningen that has a major impact on people's lives there. That is why we are working with all our power to do what is necessary there. Firstly, as Mrs Beckerman knows, we have drastically reduced the volume of natural gas production. In 2012 it was 48 billion m. In the meantime, we have decided to go back to 21.6 billion m. Furthermore, we are in the process of setting up a large-scale reinforcement programme, precisely because the problem in Groningen is serious. This 2.6 earthquake on the Richter scale in recent days in Slochteren is an illustration of this. The number of earthquakes is falling dramatically. Over the past four years, the number of earthquakes has decreased from 29 per year to 13 per year. Then I'm talking about palpable earthquakes of 1.5 or more on the Richter scale. But 13 is even more than serious. It is possible that, in the first half of the year, it will be more than thirteen. There is therefore every reason to draw attention to all the possibilities for improving the situation. Those opportunities are all being exploited. Damages are all being dealt with. At the moment there is a transition from one system to another. It is now almost 1 June and the month of June is used to complete the work of the new system, after which the recordings of damage, including those 97 I mentioned earlier, will be converted into processing, into dealing with the damage. That's all going on. We have out of 80,000 reports of damage in Groningen. It's terrible to say 80,000 reports of damage! In the meantime 67 000 have already been taken care of. These will also be dealt with as soon as possible on the basis that all damage caused by earthquakes will be fully compensated, apart from the value increase scheme. This means that if you have a damage of €1,000 or more, except for damages, you will also receive an increase in value for your property of up to €4,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	One of the most important monuments in the area where there was an earthquake on Saturday is Fraeylemaborg. The damage to the bail was just repaired. The deposit was just out of the docks after previous earthquakes. After the quake of Saturday, the deposit has to be rebuilt in the scaffolding. A painful example, because it shows that our heritage suffers mercilessly. 90% of the monuments in this area are damaged. Our pride, our history, is literally crumbling. This too is the result of political choices. This is another cause for concern for the cabinet. I still do not hear the Minister making a new commitment on reducing gas extraction as soon as possible. Finally, say yes to the region when it comes to a good and generous damages protocol. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	90% of the monuments? I cannot repeat that, for that I do not have any information. The example of the guarantee in Slochteren is a justified example that illustrates the seriousness of the problem. I am very aware of the seriousness of the problem, which is why two things are happening, namely to reduce the volume of natural gas production as much as possible on the one hand and to set in motion the strengthening programme for buildings in the area on the other. It is not that I do not want to decide to reduce the production of natural gas. We had taken a five-year decision based on 24 billion cubic metres per year, but in the light of recent developments, the cabinet decided to reduce this further to 21.6 billion cubic metres. This is to our best knowledge on the basis of the latest information the minimum we can do from the point of view of security of supply combined with security of supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	Groningen can't wait any longer. Groningen can't wait until the end of the formation. Groningen needs politics now. It's a question of taking sides. The SP asks the Minister one last time: do you now side with Groningen or do you side with the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	Groningen doesn't have to wait. The choice of money is, of course, not on the agenda. Four years ago, we had 15 billion revenues from natural gas extraction and now we have 2 billion revenues from natural gas extraction. Money is therefore not a consideration at all. The consideration regarding the policy on the extraction of natural gas in Groningen is that extraction should be reduced as much as we can and that it should be further strengthened. There is therefore a consistent choice for the Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	The CDA shares the concerns of colleague of the SP, like all political groups in the House of Representatives, I think. What amazes me very much is that the NAM is threatening to take the view that it does not agree with the reduction in gas production. I can't wait to see how the Minister looks at that. Does he want to reflect on this and take it into account that the NAM has still not delivered a better measurement and control protocol? It just keeps going on and on. We also don't know exactly what the effects are of the distribution across the whole area. Will the Minister reply and reflect on what the NAM is actually doing? The CDA finds it truly unprecedented and incomprehensible. I'm getting a little upset about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	Progress has been made on the measurement and control protocol. I understood that this morning with the inspector in charge of the State's supervision of the mines. The second point is the attitude of the NAM towards the extraction decision. We've taken a mining decision for five years. That's 24 billion light years. The SodM has indicated that certain measures should be considered once a certain limit value has been exceeded. That limit has not yet been exceeded. Despite this, the government has decided to reduce gas extraction from 24 billion to 21.6 billion m. The NAM now says: that limit has not been exceeded, so you're actually too early with that. That is the theorem of the NAM; I leave it on the account of the NAM. The cabinet has made an assessment and has taken the decision that I have just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'd like to continue with this. There are still earthquakes in Groningen. This was the fifth one this month. Mayors, usually a little bit challenged, speak more and more. Mayor Geert-Jan ten Brink van Slochteren has said: now less gas. The mayor of Ten Boer has spoken out about this. Nevertheless, the NAM says: look at it, politics; you can make some decisions, but we object and we want to win more. The PvdA considers that this also requires a moral stance by the Minister. This behaviour is socially irresponsible. It's not acceptable. We should not take this from one of the biggest gas winners in the Netherlands. Does the Minister agree with the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	The mayors in the area I have experienced as sensible figures and not so much as defendants. I think it is very understandable that they are showing the unrest in the area, given that this unrest is widespread and, of course, addressed to the mayors. I don't have the experience that the theorem or attitude of the NAM would be "look at it." Her attitude has been very cooperative in all these years that I have been in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and it is at the moment. We have taken a decision that went beyond the advice of State surveillance of the Mines. The NAM relies on what has been agreed quite recently. I think she has the right to make her argument. I'm not prepared to disqualify the NAM.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	The large number of spokesmen at the microphone shows that this is very much alive, not only in Groningen, but also in the House of Representatives. I shall be requesting a majority debate on this subject in the course of the work. The Minister has decided to win flat; the decision sees 24 billion cuub for five years. During the debate on that decision, too, many parties, including GroenLinks, asked: how can the Minister say that it will be at that level for five years? The Minister has announced that he will return to that. GroenLinks asked: can't this reduction be much faster; why not in October? I would like to ask you again: can this reduction to 21.6 billion cubic metres just be implemented next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	I shared with the Chamber all the information that was at the time and recently behind our decision to win 24 billion m flat in Groningen for five years. We have discussed this at length. I do not have anything new to add to that. It is true that the 24 billion and the flat mining were in line with the advice I received from the State surveillance of the Mines. After that, the advice came: you don't have to do anything yet, but understand that we are close to the signal value after which you should consider doing something. On my proposal, the cabinet said: we are not going to wait for that; in view of the current trend, we are going to reduce the 24 billion m for five years, starting as soon as possible to 21.6 billion m. What is "as soon as possible"? That's the new gas year, which starts on October 1st. For this reason, lowering extraction is not meaningful, because we are currently winning to fill the storage in Norg. If we don't fill it, we won't have enough gas available in the coming winter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mrs Van Tongeren, your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	The second is that people can report their damage, but nothing happens. The Minister just said in response to the SP's questions that all of this is going to happen at a good pace. The theory that there used to be about the so-called "outside area" has now also been deactivated with this earthquake. People have been waiting a year and a half for their damage to be dealt with. The number of people who would like to see their case dealt with by the arbitrator is also increasing. Isn't it time for a big plan, where things are handled generously and quickly, instead of taking a long time to look at everything? People now want to respond to their damage, but at this very moment the Minister has said: we are shutting down the entire damages settlement for three months and we want to get rid of the arbitrators.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	The spokesperson of GroenLinks is now going through a very short turn. She calls Slochteren, where the 2.6 earthquake on the Richter scale occurred, the outskirts. That's not right; it's part of the area it's about. It doesn't matter if you're in or out of that area. Wherever earthquake damage occurs, that damage must be compensated and compensated. Damage reports are all being dealt with, but there is a new, improved system for damage handling on the way. We move from the old to the new system. The new system will be applicable on 1 July. Between now and 1 July, the damage will also be actively absorbed. The Safe Living Center goes to the people who may have damage. So we're actively working on it. Damages are being recorded. Once the new system is available on 1 July, it will be applied. We are talking about damages which remain for one and a half years, but these are damages which were initially found not to have been caused by natural gas extraction. That was examined in greater detail later. That is when that conclusion was drawn again. Damage caused by natural gas extraction is compensated and damage not caused by natural gas extraction is not compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	There's been a lot to do about the damage protocol. Can we assume that this will take place on 1 July and that this will apply not only to the inhabitants of the earthquake area but also to the so-called outlying area? I think it's very important to acknowledge now. Law provides that damage caused by gas extraction is damage, regardless of whether one lives within or outside the so-called nuclear area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	The last thing Mrs Dik-Faber said is entirely correct. I just said the same thing. It doesn't matter where the damage is. If the damage is caused by natural gas extraction, it must be compensated by the NAM. It is right that Mrs Dik-Faber brings up the damage protocol. Here's what happened. The situation in the past was: you had a damage, you reported it then and you had to deal with the NAM. We then put the Center of Safe Living in between. Then we added the National Coordinator Groningen. Then we removed the NAM. We're perfecting that system right now. The damage protocols are no longer established by the Safe Living Centre or by the NAM, but by the National Coordinator. That's all going on right now. The National Coordinator's expectation is that this process will be completed on 1 July so that the settlement of damages under the new system, which is better for the inhabitants of Groningen, can be resumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	Your second question, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	I also really hope that the damage will be dealt with quickly. My second question concerns the extraction of gas itself. In the past, we have indeed decided to redistribute gas production across the field. Is this quake, which was a little bit more intense than we have seen in recent times, a reason to look at yet another redistribution of gas production? In concrete terms, my question is whether gas production in Slochteren should not be reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	I agree with Mrs Dik-Faber on the speedy handling. That's what's gonna happen. Normally damage cases are dealt with in six weeks, but it may be that the damage detector wants a second assessment according to the old system. It'll take more time, of course. It may also be that an offer for settlement has been made, but that no decision has yet been taken by the claims detector. It may also be a complex matter. There are all kinds of reasons conceivable why it takes longer, but the standard handling of a damage is six weeks. There is no reason at the moment to review exactly how to win. For example, there are currently no indications that, as has been suggested, seismicity would be moving from Loppersum towards Slochteren, more south. That is not the case; there is no indication of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	When the earth trembles and when your house rips, you especially want to be helped very quickly. Now we ask people in Groningen for patience, because we are developing a better compensation scheme for them. I have two questions about that. For a truly independent compensation scheme, it is very important that the person who comes to see if there is earthquake damage is truly independent. That was one of the key points of the review. Can the Minister indicate whether he is making real progress on that point? The second question is whether we will soon have enough people to deal with the reservoir of damage that is increasing in the coming months, so that people are helped as quickly as possible and do not have to wait long for the costs to be repaired or refunded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	The people who take damage are sent there by the Centre for Safe Living. The Centre Safe Living was at a distance from the NAM, but is now only controlled by the National Coordinator Groningen. The NAM's out of there. In addition, these people work with a manual drawn up by the National Coordinator and with protocols adopted by the National Coordinator. In doing so, we have achieved the situation that the people who are damaged in that area have to do with the government that plays an important role there, because we have been allowing gas extraction there for many years. That government feels responsibility and also takes that responsibility in direct contact with the people who have damage. So that system is good now. It is now being worked out and applied. I hope to be able to do this from 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	The Minister has just mentioned the new damage protocol which will enter into force from 1 July, but there is still a lot of discussion about it at the moment. In Groningen, there's a lot of uncertainty about how this is going to work out. Can the Minister guarantee that the new victims of that earthquake will not fall between shore and ship? I have one more question. Two weeks ago, the Court of Auditors concluded that out of the 1.3 billion earmarked for earthquake repairs, only 50 million are left and 96% have already been spent. Can the Minister guarantee that these new cases are generously covered by this regulation and that it will not be said that the money is running out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	There's never any mention of the money running out for damages. Any damage caused by natural gas extraction shall be compensated. I have nothing whatsoever to do with estimates or anything at all on this point. Whether or not the estimates are exceeded is not important. The damage will be compensated. So there's no such relationship. You also asked whether 1 July would be feasible, given the ongoing consultations. I'm gonna have to rely on what the National Coordinator said. He made a schedule that ends on July 1st. He's doing his best to realize that. I'm confident he can do that. Several parties are needed to reach agreement. So let's see how that goes. We intend to apply the new system on 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	The last question, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	The Minister can therefore guarantee that the 1.3 billion agreed for expenditure from 2014 to 2018 will soon be complemented if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	As far as claims, damages and damages are concerned, I have nothing to do with estimates. The damage will be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	We've had questions about this for so long and we know the Minister's answers. I shall therefore vote in favour of Mrs Van Tongeren's request for a majority debate. We just need to have a proper debate on this. If necessary, we need to file motions so that the entire Chamber can support this. Then we'll really help the people in Groningen. I have one more question: can the Minister answer Mrs Van Veldhoven's question from D66? She asked if the Minister had enough people to handle that reservoir of damage reports. I'd like to get an answer to that. For the rest, we're sitting here pointing at each other. We have already tabled motions for resolutions on everything that has been requested here. As long as they're not supported, we're not helping the Groningen. Party politics is being played over people's backs. I think that's very sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	I shall leave Mr Graus to comment on 'party politics on the back of people'. I come to Mrs van Veldhoven's question, which has not been answered. I apologise to Mrs Van Veldhoven for that. We now have many people working in Groningen. This morning I spoke to a number of international experts about scientific research that needs to be done. They told me that 80% of the world's available knowledge of induced earthquakes has now been seized by NAM and by NAM-related parties. The other 20% was seized by the State surveillance of the Mines. This means that all the expertise needed for scientific research is used. The same applies to the settlement of damages. What is required of employees is available to my information. I have no information to show that there is a reservoir and there are delays in dealing with damage. We must also realise that the number of palpable earthquakes, i.e. more than 1.5 on the Richter scale, has decreased from 29 to 13 per year in four years. So there is a more than half cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time.
