ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 2016, the Open Government Act, an initiative law of GroenLinks and D66, to replace the WOB, was passed by a large majority by the Lower House. This despite fierce opposition from the civil servants and ministers. The Minister, perhaps overwhelmed by the fact that the Chamber agreed to a more transparent government against his advice, then decided to launch a second investigation into the costs of introducing the Open Government Act. An e-mail released by a WOB request from Open State now shows that the researchers have worked with the aim of preventing the Open Government Act from being adopted by the Upper Chamber. I quote: 'Remember that we are engaged in an exercise which is also aimed at preventing a law that would as such create an unattainable workload'. The mail also shows that the figures on which the investigation is based are not based on a serious calculation. I quote: 'If it is not possible to give more than a global picture, then it is full of a global picture. If your numbers don't know exactly, make a rough assessment." This really creates the image that research has been put in place to put the Open Government Act in a bad light. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister. Have you, in any way, formally or informally given the objective to the investigating top officials in order to prevent the Open Government Act from being raised to law with the investigation? If not, how do you explain that, according to the wobbled mail, this was understood by them? Why did the researchers ask administrative bodies for gross estimates instead of actual figures when they asked for information? Did they do this with the Minister's consent? Finally, Mr President, does the Minister share that this information raised raises significant doubts as to the integrity and quality of this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At a conference last year of governments on the subject of open government, a relatively open government, I was asked: what about making declarations every month, with agendas and the Public Administration Act, which basically makes every document public unless there is a reason not to? So we have a good track record at that point. The Open Government Act goes one step further and says that in principle all documents, e-mails, documents, and whatever, policy but also implementation, should be made public as much as possible. If that does not happen, such a piece must be argued why not. If it does, personal sensitive information that could affect privacy must be whitened. I pointed out in the House of Representatives that this would entail major costs. The First Chamber has asked for an inquiry into that. I have already said in the House of Representatives that the Tax Administration alone is taxing it on several hundreds of millions. Then the First Chamber said: we want a more complete picture in a quick scan. That quickscan was done by the General Administration. It wasn't a PhD exam, but it was done seriously. They have said with all the parties involved: what would that bring? Then you also have to think about the municipalities, the Council of State, which also includes DUO, study funding, Social Insurance Bank, ministries. That led to an estimate that does not surprise me, because I have already said in the House of Representatives that you have to think in the order of hundreds of millions. You must therefore realise that there are very large numbers of documents, many of which may never be seen by anyone, but each of them must be checked. If someone at DUO says: I'm seropositive, what about my study funding, then the answer to that is relevant. This can be made public, but of course there must be whitewashing, not only in the introductory phrase but also in the text because the privacy of the data subject must be protected. That brings with it actions. It is useful in itself, so I see great benefits, but the costs need to be mapped out and the costs under the law were estimated to be zero. Now they've been estimated by the General Administration in the order of one billion. You've seen the amounts, it's been sent to the First Chamber and made public. Again, it's a quick scan, so it could still be something wrong, I leave that in the middle, but it has to be covered anyway. So for the government's opinion on that law, this doesn't make a difference. That remains to discourage it because large costs are incurred that are not covered. Finally, Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act implies that when we charge local authorities with such costs, we have to talk to them to cover those costs for local authorities, and that was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	The fact that sensitive personal information needs to be whitened, I understand. This is an adopted initiative law, Minister. The Minister states here that the investigation of ABDTOPconsult, which he has put to work, had a political objective. Whether that's the prevention of a workload or the law an sich, it's the same thing. Doesn't the Minister really understand that it doesn't give a pass to have an investigation conducted on the basis of his political wishes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr President, for the record, it was the political wish of the First Chamber. He said: we are faced with a bill passed by the Lower House, which is always so in the Upper Chamber, that the government discourages mentioning extremely high costs. It was a few million and structurally hundreds of millions. That's why we're asking BZK to ask ABD to estimate those costs, to make a quick scan of them, and that's what happened. That is indeed a political wish, but not so much from me, or at least it was my wish that this would have been taken into account in the House of Representatives. This was done at the request of the First Chamber. That is where it is now and where, as I understand it, the treatment will soon be continued. I would actually like to refer to that. If one criticises that investigation, it could be discussed there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to say one more time: it is full of a global picture if it is not possible to give more than a global picture. That says something about the rationality of the research and the outcome of the research. To what extent is this research reliable if it is controlled in this way at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	The question was about the fact that the text of the bill states that it does not entail any costs. The government believes it will cost 1 billion. Let us now, in consultation with the municipalities, the provinces, the Social Insurance Bank, the study funding and the Tax Administration, show how high these costs may be. A number of public authorities wrote back that they had no idea. At that time, it was called upon to give an estimate in order to comply with the request of the First Chamber for the quickscan. That's done. Again, the amounts have not been mentioned to six numbers behind the decimal point, but I believe it has been reported to the First Chamber that the total amount is in the order of 1 billion. If you say it could be 10% more or less, then I'm not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Then Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. We attach great importance to an open and transparent government. D66 was a co-initiator of this bill for a reason. We too have looked at this research with some eyebrow frons. The Minister says that many of the parties involved were involved in the investigation, including the initiators. They then indicated that a number of things that were involved in the investigation were by no means the intention of the initiators. All this has been included in the costs, by the way. Mr Voermans quite rightly said last night in Nieuwsuur that there is quite a bit of late maintenance in the government on this point. All these costs are now attributed to this bill. You may wonder if all this is right now. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	There are three points. First of all, I believe that, in the meantime, those involved have indicated that their intention may have been more limited than the text of the law. The text of the law calls for as many documents as possible to be made public. This will ultimately be subject to legal review. That was also the starting point for that investigation. I understand the thought of the late maintenance. In fact, those costs should have been incurred long ago, but that is without prejudice to the fact that they are not and that they stem from the obligations arising again from the adoption of that law. On the question of how much it costs if you pass the law, you can say that there are many governments that do not have an accurate register where all the texts and emails they produce are searchable by keyword. It'd be good if they did have a register like that. It's a win if they do. I agree with that. But the costs involved are real costs arising from the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs Özütok has just asked very clearly about the purpose of the investigation. The assignment, which was also sent to the Chamber, was to see what the costs would be. Now you can find all sorts of things that a global assessment has been made and the question whether that can be raised to fact. But what matters to us is that it is said that an official writes to another official that the purpose of this exercise is to prevent this law from coming into force. It is a question of conducting an investigation, under the guise of costs, as a political means of preventing a law that is more open. The Minister did not go into that at all. So I want him to answer Mrs Özütok's first question. Was the goal, to prevent the government from getting there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	No. The aim of the study requested by the First Chamber was to map out the real costs in general. I am not surprised that they were high, because I had already said in the House of Representatives that they would be high. Now, in the context of the WOB, an e-mail has come out of an official who apparently says that he has perceived this. But then I say to Mrs Voortman: just if you want full disclosure, you must be prepared to accept that there will be pieces coming out. I didn't write that e-mail. I didn't receive it either, and I didn't order it. Nor is it my perception of the purpose of the investigation. That will remain on the person concerned's behalf. Yeah, that's what you get when everything comes out. Then you have to be prepared for that. Once again, the purpose of the investigation was very explicit to me at the request of the First Chamber to come up with a quick scan to visualize the costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP for her question to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Environment.
