ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the General Financial Reviews and the discussion of the Tax Plan package 2018. This package concerns the legislative proposals 34785 Tax plan 2018, 34786 Other tax measures 2018, 34787 Law abolishing the VAT agricultural scheme, 34788 Law on retention holding cooperative and extension of retention exemption, 34819 Amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 until phasing out the deduction for no or limited property debt. You have probably understood that I mentioned the short title in the 34785 to 34788 legislative proposals rather than the full long title. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Finance to the Upper House. It is for them the first step here in their new role, and I say this very clearly to the Minister of Finance. I wish them much wisdom, and I wish them success in the performance of their duties. I say to the Minister, you know the Chamber, so brace yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate the new Minister and Secretary of State on their appointment and welcome them. But after this friendly start, I have to go straight to a more critical tone, because we are talking about important issues today. Last week Asterix and Obelix passed by here. I would say: it is with the new cabinet as with the bard Assurancetourix from Asterix and Obelix. As the bard himself thinks he can sing so fantasticly and the rest of the village cannot hear his false notes, this cabinet thinks that it is fantastic with the Netherlands, while the rest of the Netherlands doesn't think so. The cabinet has confidence in the future; the rest of the Netherlands does not, and certainly not in this cabinet policy. Politics should be about the Netherlands and the Netherlands, less about figures and The Hague, as we read on the first page of the coalition agreement. I can imagine that the cabinet would prefer not to talk about figures, because they are not very good. But that is what we are going to talk about today in the General Financial Reviews. For example, I wanted to start with the disposable income of households in the Netherlands according to Eurostat. If you look at this in recent years, then in eleven years the available income in the Netherlands has increased by an average of 1.1%; significantly less than in the neighbouring countries. For example, over a period of 11 years, the increase in disposable income in Germany is more than twice as high. In the same period of 11 years, even the EU average is almost twice as high. Once again, all the countries around us are doing better, even France. Looking at the period from the introduction of the euro in 2002, the picture becomes even more dramatic. So we can clearly say that Rutte II has not done anything at all, but of course we cannot charge this Minister and Secretary of State for Finance. That is why we are talking today mainly about the budget for next year, but also about what lies ahead with Rutte III. And that certainly doesn't look any better. The people with an income of 1.75 times the minimum wage up to 3.5 times the minimum wage, say the backbone of our society, see at the end of this year that they have made up 0% with their purchasing power. They are told that in 2018 they will be able to expect an increase in purchasing power of 0.6%, while the economy is growing in the coming years. But the Dutchman who, according to this new cabinet, has to deal with it does not, or hardly does, benefit from it. Over the past few years, we have had to turn in and our continuing 6% economic growth has been ruined. And now that there's a bit of growth, it's taken immediately and Henk and Ingrid don't notice any of that at all. On the contrary, what is already being previewed is minimal and there is a burden increase against which that small plus will amply turn into a big minus. The CPB believes that care premiums will increase by 24% over the next four years if the necessary agreements can be reached, otherwise it will become even more dramatic. Then there's the energy tax. The PVV has for years indicated that subsidising the windmill industry and the solar cell industry and the whole sustainability circus at the expense of the citizen is going to run wild. Now Secretary of State Snel states that most households will have to pay €583.61 energy tax at the end of this reign. A 38% increase. Mr. Chairman. For a random example of how that happened, we look at the books of Windpark Houten of Eneco. The wind yield appears to be half of what was calculated in the prospectus by Ecofys. The result is that the turnover in 2016, for example, is not enough to pay the accountant, the maintenance technician and the insurance. On top of a return of €272,000 in energy supply there is a subsidy of €661,000. Now this is just an illustration, but with all the other wind farms it is not much better. Lock subsidies are needed to keep those wind farms running. You just have to have a normal common sense to understand that this isn't gonna work. I would therefore ask the Minister and the Secretary of State whether they can guarantee that it will remain with the 38% increase in energy taxation, which is, moreover, not already in the government's weight increase picture. In other words, is this cabinet going to intervene in the subsidy circus that Henk and Ingrid have to pay if the increase in energy taxes is even more out of control? I would also like to refer to the rather euphemistic remark made by the Council of State in this regard, which says: it is advisable to give a clearer picture of how and where the costs of climate policy are going to fall towards 2030. Those, too, foresee that the costs will run out of steam. As much as the sustainability circus gets out of hand, it gets out of hand with the asylum industry. Apart from the question of how insane it is to flood the Dutch people with, according to some, replaced by, mainly North Africans, we should also look at the costs of this project. Two years ago, the PVV was able to calculate that for the average cost of an asylum seeker, based on the first application, you will reach €36.000 per asylum seeker. The largest cost items are IND, COA and DT&V, Return and Departure Service, but grants to legal aid for asylum seekers, RefugeeWork Netherlands, Nidos, you name it, are also good. But we're not there yet. Once they're status holders, the prize circus really starts. The regular costs that will then be incurred include assistance, rent allowance, care allowance, child benefit, individual income allowance, child-related budget, remission of charges.The charges are of course only for the native Dutch. And then, at the same time, this government tells 65-plussers: you only work a few more years, because the €9,600 you cost a year is too much for us. And to young native Dutch people who want to start a family and have been on the waiting list for a home for a long time, this cabinet says: "Wait a minute, because we have to start with a quota of status holders. Mr. Chairman. The Nyfer Office calculated a few years ago that the total cost of the asylum influx is as much as 7.2 billion per year. That was before the asylum influx really got completely out of hand under Rutte II. So it's definitely higher now. For this money, we can not only retire at 65, but we can also eliminate our own risk in health care and reduce the premium. Of course, some of the decisions on these issues have been taken under Rutte II, but this cabinet continues on the path taken. In fact, there's another tooth. After 2021, as demonstrated by the CPB's credit transfer, there will be a further increase of 1.2 billion. And the Council of State is talking about longer-term burdens of up to EUR 7 billion. Let me now turn to the financial misery which this cabinet once again has in store for the border region. As I said last year, Rutte II was physically, coincidentally or otherwise, at the widest possible distance from the border region in The Hague and, with this example as a symbol, had also been placed at maximum distance from the citizen. Rutte III goes one step further with the increase in the lowest VAT rate, by no less than 50%, to 9%, and not to mention the increase in tobacco duty. During the previous cabinet period, many petrol pumps, but also other shops in the immediate vicinity of them, have been closed down throughout the border area. The difference in the price of automotive fuels between the Netherlands on the one hand and Germany and Belgium on the other was almost zero at the beginning of that period and is now approximately €0.30 per litre for ordinary petrol. The remaining middle class which was in the vicinity of these petrol pumps also led to a soul-blowing existence with all the negative employment effects as a result. Now the people in the border region get another reason to go shopping in Germany or Belgium. And people who are already going to Belgium or Germany will also buy other products that are not cheaper. At the moment, many Dutch people are crossing the border for cheaper petrol, smoke, spirits and meat. This thanks to Rutte II. As has already been said, this cabinet is doing a little bit more when it comes to the eradication tactics of the middle class in the border region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u4	Mr President, thank you. Apart from these words, I strongly support Senator Van Strien's call for a proper assessment of the effects of VAT increases, particularly for the middle class and, in particular, for the border region. In this Chamber we have often discussed a border impact test. You have also expressed a very positive opinion on this recently. Is the PVV prepared to support my group chairman's motion, as tabled last week, on such a test on VAT?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u5	I've studied the motion carefully. I agree with the fact that there should be a border impact test. But I think even more that if that test shows how bad things are, then we must take action. I think that's much more important than just measuring. I live 30 meters away from the border and I see petrol pumps being shut down. I see the stores are being closed. I see what's happening. I do not need the border impact test, but for The Hague it has to be. But then something has to happen. On the motion we will return later in the day. At the moment many Dutch people are already crossing the border for cheaper petrol, smoke, spirits and meat. Thanks to Rutte II. As I said, this cabinet is putting a little more on top of it. In the opposition, the CDA sometimes gave the impression of worrying about the border effects. I wonder what the official comment of this CDA minister is now. Therefore, please comment on this later. I now come to Tax Plan and the other tax laws. The previous point, of course, was already at the crossroads of taxation and General Financial Reviews. Fake news seems to be a big problem these days. I'm inclined to agree with that. What to think of, for example, the following: when the British decided on 23 June last year democratically to choose their own path, or to choose a Brexit, the Rutte II cabinet almost hysterically declared that that country, on the other side of the North Sea, was facing its downfall. An exodus of companies from Great Britain would arise. The CPB also predicted that the Netherlands and other EU Member States would attract more foreign investment through the Brexit. Britain became less attractive to investors as a gateway to Europe. In the newspapers, sent by the information of the cabinet, there is talk of a brexit ravine. In the meantime, of course, we all know how they got that Brexit-ravine. It was on the edge of that brexit ravine, according to the latest political reading, of course full of informers! And what was the first thing this new cabinet could come up with in terms of fiscal measures? The abolition of the dividend tax, which is already among the lowest in our neighbouring countries, with the aim of preventing Dutch companies from moving to London. It is either one or the other: either the Rutte II cabinet has been spreading fake news or the Rutte III cabinet is spreading fake news. I would like to hear from the Minister or the Secretary of State for Finance which of the two Cabinets is now the publisher of fake news. Apart from the question of who is now the spreader of fake news, Rutte II on the Brexit of Rutte III on the dividend tax or possibly both, because that is most likely still the question of where rationality is in this discussion. According to Het Financieele Dagblad of 15 November, the Stichting On the basis of an analysis of the shareholdership of the ten largest AEX companies, the Stichting Onderzoek Multinationale Verenigingen has concluded that 77% of the shares are owned by shareholders who do not improve anything if the Netherlands abolishes the dividend tax. These shareholders will then have to pay more tax in their own country because the dividend tax is merely a withholding tax. This leads to their tax advantage being entirely in foreign treasuries. More than three quarters of the 1.4 billion this measure costs, therefore, disappears directly into foreign treasuries. One quarter, approximately 320 million, disappears into the pockets of mainly American hedge funds and asset managers operating from Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Cyprus or the United Kingdom. The latter are the countries that do not tax dividends. These hedge funds and asset managers, operating from these countries, and since last week supplemented by the VVD with old grannies from Chile, should then boost the course of our multinationals and thus ensure that the headquarters remain in the Netherlands. Such an air cyclist from our tax centers comes from a cabinet which, with a renewed VAT increase and an increase in tobacco tax, is killing the middle class in the border region, which, with the same thunderstorm in the clear sky, imposes an equally unreasoned and unsuspecting penalty, has set up a system that, under the pretext of sustainability, is structuralally scattering billions of subsidies to the business community at the expense of families, which is spending structural billions to put hopeless fortune seekers in homes that were meant for our children and grandchildren, and that our elderly people will continue to work up to 67 and perhaps 70 years, because the AOW would not be affordable. During the preparation I sometimes thought that I had ended up in the haunted house of the Efteling, but with that difference, that you are not standing outside again after ten minutes to take a breath. But we haven't had all the attractions of this cabinet. The abolition of the Hills Act, called phasing-out in official newspeak, is another law that comes out of a box like a devil. I can say, like a devil. Apart from the fact that this proposal once again leads to an enormous burden for older people in particular and leads a fine on a virtue- and sparing life, this proposal demonstrates, above all, the total untrustworthyness of the government. People are being scared of the future and their trust in government and politics is being completely shattered. I would like to know whether the Minister and the Secretary of State are aware of this. I would like an explicit response to this. First it was: hands off the mortgage interest deduction. After that, when the mortgage interest rate deduction was wound down in 30 years, Rutte II said: this is it, this is what we are going to do for the next 30 years. You can now decide on the basis of this tax information. And now, four years later, the mortgage interest relief is being reduced further. On top of that, the abolition of the Hills Act. First one is tempted to redeem his house, then destroy the scheme again. As with the mortgage interest rate deduction, it is promised to reduce this slowly in 30 years. Mr. Chairman. Not a man who believes this cabinet anymore. Not a man who, through the accumulation of deception, still has faith in the government. One of the reasons given by the Cabinet to abolish the Hills Act is that there are more repayments due to the low interest rates on savings rates. It can't be more astounding. You are being caught as a saver because, if necessary, we have to sit in the euro together with the celebrating southern European countries that Mr Draghi installed in Frankfurt to ensure that their debts disappear like snow for the southern European sun through the unlimited creation of money. As a result, interest rates have become virtually zero and the sparing Dutchman who then pays a little extra on his house is then taken by this government. The increase in population as a result of unbridled immigration then results in a huge increase in house prices, which doubles the cash register in The Hague. And the elderly, who are already seeing their pensions dwindle by the same Mr Draghi, are allowed to bite. Mr. Chairman. In this context, I have a specific question for the Secretary of State. Is he prepared, if the abolition of the Hills Act were to be adopted, to say, of course, that we do not hope, in advance, that the flat rate will be reduced in proportion to inflation in the event of an increase in the World Trade Organization? Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the flat tax bullshit. Flat tax or proportional tax is a form of income tax where every income is taxed with the same percentage, says Wikipedia. Because socialists don't like proportional taxes, this cabinet has invented a social flat tax. Not a person who actually knows what that is, but let us look at the effects. We had, through the jungle, income-dependent tax rebates, which overlapd and then with different routes of up and down, de facto so much seven discs. It should be noted that the bizarre system of tax rebates does not gradually increase the tax, but even falls below 20 000. And what do we have in front of us now? Just two more tax discs, the cabinet calls. But because of the completely intact jungle of income-dependent tax rebates, which has once again been somewhat muffled but which as a system is fully maintained, we now come to, three guesses: seven discs. Apart from the dip below 20,000 we now also have a lump of more than 60% around €70,000. In short, the cabinet once again brings fake news. I have not yet mentioned that the lowest rate has been raised twice by this cabinet even before the new rate has been introduced. On 27 October, the Minister for Social Affairs mentions the initial rate of the first tax disc 36.89%, in the coalition agreement it is 36.93% and a few weeks later it is 36.95%. Well, that promises something with this cabinet! Mr. Chairman. I'd like to wait for my questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, on behalf of the members of my group, a warm welcome to the two new rulers. For the Minister, speaking in sports terms, he's playing a home game here. Of course, that's an advantage, but I know from experience that you can also lose home games. However, knowing this minister, he will realize that, with all the goodwill and confidence in his person, my group will ultimately have the content of the support it will give to the policy. As far as the Secretary of State is concerned, the First Chamber is a new area, but in view of its wide experience, my group has every reason to look forward to constructive and fruitful cooperation. In order to reassure the Secretary of State, I say that night work and filibustering are highly unusual here. I see him laughing relievedly. Mr. Chairman. The rulers already have General Political Reviews and Financial Reviews behind the electors in the House of Representatives. We had general political discussions last week at that time, unfortunately, because of important state issues elsewhere, but my group does not need to do all this again. This cannot be done either in view of the limited speaking time. That is why we want to address a number of issues of a more fundamental nature, partly in preparation for debates which will undoubtedly be carried out on the basis of concrete legislative proposals. Firstly, budgetary policy for the coming years, as reflected in the government agreement. In general, my group supports this policy. The figures also give rise to this. There is a modest surplus, and public debt is falling further and well below the 60% GDP limit. Of course, there are risk derivatives, especially in the international field with the Brexit as the main concern, but the Dutch economy is robust and can have a hit. According to the Central Planning Bureau, the coalition agreement as a whole contributes to a further strengthening of this economic growth. Good! But if we look at the longer term, the picture is less fluffy, at least as far as public finances are concerned. According to the CPB, the sustainability balance changes from a plus of 0.2 to a minus of 0.4% of GDP and there is also a spill-over effect. However, after 2021, 7 billion in charges have been charged. Without these burdens, the sustainability deficit exceeds 1% of GDP. The Council of State is right to make critical comments on this. The answers to questions raised by my group in the written preparation of this debate show that this change is entirely due to the extrapolation of healthcare expenditure. Without the CPB's anticipated development in healthcare expenditure, the picture of public finances is extremely sound, but in controlling healthcare expenditure, my group has doubts about the forthcoming cabinet period. Management tools as a higher own risk, higher own contributions and interventions in the package are not provided for in the government agreement. My group understands this in itself. These are difficult measures that can affect vulnerable citizens and therefore have little social and low political support. As a result, however, the government agreement is committed to a large growth reduction package, as it is called, of about 2 billion and then entirely in the curative sector on the basis of new agreements with the sector in new broad agreements. It is remarkable that the CPB has refused to fully honour these 2 billion as a realistic reversal; it comes to half. That's pretty exceptional. I don't remember this happening very often. Can the Minister explain why, by way of derogation from the Central Planning Bureau, he considers this amount feasible and wants to take responsibility for his budget? It is precisely because of the large impact of the assumptions on expenditure development that the VVD Group would like to see the sustainability deficit reflected, including and excluding the development of healthcare expenditure, in order to increase the understanding of underlying factors. Is the Minister prepared to consult with the Central Planning Office on this matter? At the same time, my group has the idea of whether care expenditure should not be subject to separate budgetary arrangements, a sort of autonomous salmon standard, and the Hoekstranorm should be called it. This could include a link to GDP growth. This means that healthcare expenditure remains the same as a percentage of GDP over the government period, perhaps with deviations if GDP grows significantly more or less than the long-term average. The great advantage of this is that there will be no more displacement of other major public expenditure such as security and education, as well as an increasing care bill for citizens and businesses. Deviation from this standard can, of course, always be ex post on the basis of political decisions. Then it should also be indicated which other collective expenditure this involves or that this is to be borne by citizens or companies. My group asks the Minister of Finance if he would be prepared to send a note to this Chamber in consultation with the CPB in which he discusses the advantages and disadvantages of a separate budgetary standard for care, linked to GDP growth. I look forward to his reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u8	I follow this reasoning with great interest, because the growth of healthcare expenditure is a concern for all of us. I do have a question about the proposal, namely the idea of linking it to the growth of the national product. The reason why this is so complex for care seems to me, among other things, that a Baumol effect, if I may call it that, is the fact that the productivity in care can almost inherently not rise as quickly as productivity in the large total economy, is already immediately throwing soot into eating such a link. How does Mr De Grave view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u9	That's a well-known economic theory. I'm not an economist, but I've been looking into it. It applies to more parts of the economy. If I look at the broader picture, it is interesting to note that in recent years, for example, we, as a society, under the policies of the previous minister, have managed to reduce the growth of healthcare expenditure below the percentage of economic growth, i.e. 1%. That includes the Baumol effect. In other words, there are many aspects that are important for healthcare expenditure, unlike the Baumol effect. By the way, I do not exclude that there can be a conscious choice of all of us to say: we are committed to letting that part that we collectively finance in healthcare be higher than the growth of national income. A detailed report was published yesterday in the newspaper showing that the Netherlands is separate in healthcare expenditure. This is not so much the case with spending on the curative sector. That's where we're on average. Yesterday, figures showed that. Where we are very different is the fact that we are collectively financing a very large part of long-term care. A country like Germany doesn't know that. May I suggest that I take a small side step in the direction of the first speaker? He talks about the fact that income in the Netherlands is so lagging behind. Yes, that is partly very explainable, because a significant part of that income growth is spent on care. Germans get a little more income, but they have to pay for the long-term care. That is a choice we have made as a society, to spend a large part of that economic growth on collectively funded long-term care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u10	Mr De Grave suggests that the quality of our care would rise above the European average. That is absolutely not true. If we compare the concern with that of a number of other European countries, we can see that it is at least as good as in the Netherlands. That cannot therefore be the reason to remain behind in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u11	You may have listened to something other than what I said, but I did not say this at all. I was concerned about the level of expenditure in relation to the question of the standard. I have said that the Netherlands is on one side with regard to total expenditure on long-term care. That makes sense, because, for example, something like the AWBZ does not exist in Germany at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u12	Expenditure on health care in the Netherlands is no better than in many other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u13	That's a completely different discussion. I only note that a significant part of the growth of the Dutch economy has gone towards increasing healthcare expenditure. Let me give you an example: 2.1 billion extra for care for the elderly. This is not available for the income of citizens. By the way, this discussion shows how interesting the thought I bring forward is, because it makes this discussion much more insightful. There is a link between how much you spend on collectively funded care and income and other collective spending. If we spend more on care, there is less available for other topics. That's how logical it is. That is a very different discussion than whether or not we would spend our healthcare expenditure efficiently in the Netherlands. That's another discussion, but it doesn't seem like it's for the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u14	Finally, Mr. Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll try one last time. Mr De Grave suggests that at least the costs in our countries are higher than in our neighbouring countries. I therefore assume that this should be because we have a better quality of care, and that this is the right thing to do. Of course, that's absurd.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u16	The term 'nonsense' is used by Mr Van Strien, I believe, every 30 seconds. It seems to me that the report I am referring to indicates that we are collectively financing a larger proportion of healthcare expenditure. We're all on one. Many countries, for example Germany, have no collective facilities at all. There's private funding. The question is whether it is more efficient in Germany or in the Netherlands. I'm gonna stay out of that for a while. I am only concerned with a system choice made in the Netherlands to fund a significant part of healthcare expenditure collectively. You can find a lot of things about that, but I am particularly concerned that it is very important that it is made as clear as possible, because we can make the important considerations that lie underneath it as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u17	In my view, Mr De Grave is quite right to say that it is a political choice how much we want to spend on care and how much we want to fund collectively. This also applies, for example, to long-term care. So that can be a political choice that we all support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u18	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u19	At the same time, he proposes to introduce a new standard where it is stated that healthcare expenditure should not grow more than economic growth. I think there is a contradiction in that, because if we make that political choice, it is strange that we commit ourselves in advance to a standard that actually eliminates the political debate or at least temporarily puts it in the background. This political debate can only come about by calling that standard into question again. What is Mr De Grave after?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u20	What I am looking for is to ensure that these kinds of debates are politically insightful, including the consequences. For example, my group notes that without any broad discussion there has actually been an additional 2 billion for long-term care. That's a lot of money. There are consequences. So that 2 billion is not available for people's income, not available for security, education, you name it all. Of course, politics always decides on these kinds of considerations, but I am concerned that you should keep that discussion transparent on the basis of that broader consideration. The advantage of this standard.... can also be deviated from the Salmon standard... is that you start somewhere, that you make it insightful and that consideration can be made politically, including the effects. The growth of national income is 2.5%. If we all want to see the growth of healthcare spending rise above it, it is important to make it clear at the expense of citizens' incomes, corporate profits or other collective spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u21	In my view, the costs without such a standard are also transparent and it is about what political choice we make. Long-term care costs money, but we are also growing together, so we can then ask how to finance it. Then there are several possibilities. I would like to point out that in the case of long-term care and collective care, working conditions have only deteriorated in recent years. In that sense, care is just expensive. Next, the question is what political choices you want to make and how you want to finance it. We do not need such a standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u22	That's obvious. That is because you are afraid that this discussion will take place, including the consequences. We don't think so. This shows that, as far as you are concerned, healthcare expenditure can grow even more. But I do think that you should give society a mandatory understanding of what choices the SP makes. The answer is simply: yes, it is at the cost of your income; yes, it is at the cost of the money available for education; yes, it is at the cost of the money available for security. Well, then you're gonna have to be honest with me. Then I'm your person. Then we make other considerations than the SP. That's a good thing, by the way. But I don't see why you're afraid of that insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u23	Finally, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u24	Finally, two brief comments. In his speech, Mr De Grave assumes all the time that total public expenditure is fixed and cannot grow. Of course, we can also choose to increase the overall share of government in the national economy and to finance it through certain taxes. That too is a political choice. Then we could also invest even more in education, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u25	Could be, yeah. That, of course, also has consequences. You will have to explain this to Mr Van Strien, who already says that the Dutch are hardly making any progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u26	Last point, Mr President. Mr De Grave talks about healthcare costs that are constantly rising. The SP is not in favour of increasing healthcare costs. The SP has very good ideas on how to reduce healthcare costs, for example by abolishing market forces in healthcare, but I do not hear Mr De Grave on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u27	That is not on the agenda either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u28	I will not be provoked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u29	No, that's not on the agenda. Mr. Van Strien, one more interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have some CBS data here. While healthcare costs increased by an average of 0.9% a year in 2013, 2014 and 2015, the Dutch economy increased by an average of 1.7% a year, not adjusted for inflation. As a result, healthcare expenditure, expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product, decreased for the third year in a row in 2015 and now covers more than 14% of GDP. These are CBS figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u31	Yeah, but I already told you that. I really need to ask you to listen a little more carefully when I say something. I have already indicated that it was very good that we were able to bring this healthcare expenditure below 1%, as a result of the agreements on the broad lines. I've explained that in detail, Mr. Van Strien. It is only striking that the Central Planning Bureau assumes much higher growth rates in the calculation of the sustainability deficit. That is why there is a sustainability deficit, which I have explained in detail. From there back to the discussion. It would be nice if something that I try to explain carefully, is also innerized. Anyway, I'd like to explain it again. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I believe I am in favour of the tax proposals. That's what my colleague Van de Ven is going to say. I can confine myself to comments of a more general nature. General: positive, balanced, on balance a clear plus for citizens, driven from the coalition agreement; for companies to a lesser extent. In doing so, it is important to see the various measures in conjunction. Only the increase in charges and not the reduction in charges or the other way around does not contribute to a balanced picture and therefore does not contribute to balanced considerations. For example, my group looked with some amazement at the intense and sometimes even a bit emotional debate about the planned abolition of dividend taxation in the House of Representatives and this morning here too. If we can believe the media about that... special. We are dealing here with a tax which, if I may believe the experts, is a very special tax. It is unique and generates a lot of money, but has no disadvantage at all. 1.4 billion, but there are no disadvantages. I thought for a second: fivefold, that tax! This will yield 7 billion and will not have a disadvantage for the Netherlands. That can't be true. Although I am not a fiscalist; I am not even an economist, I am just a simple lawyer, but this seems like a fairy tale: a tax without disadvantages. Is that right? That can't be true, can it? I would therefore like to say to the Minister that it is really crucial for a balanced debate to consider all the facts and circumstances relevant to a proper and comprehensive consideration when preparing the legislative proposal. This starts, of course, when the budgetary loss of 1.4 billion is based on structural funds, which would involve the planned abolition of the dividend tax. How stable is this structural yield, given the influence that industry, the international business community, can exert on the yield? This means a large number of legal proceedings, and I would also refer to the answers to written questions which run against the Dutch tax authorities in a European context, claiming that the Dutch dividend tax is discriminatory and contrary to the free movement of capital in Europe. I see Mr Postema standing at the interrupting microphone, but can I finish the piece of dividend tax? I imagine he wants to respond to more things. Then you'll be the first to do that, but can I finish my coherent story first? I have many more things that you will undoubtedly want to respond to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u32	The chairman will decide this, Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u33	Madam President, if you think that's a good idea? I am aware that I will soon have more provocative texts in the direction of the Labour Party. Then that can be taken equally. It would be a shame if he'd shot his gunpowder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u34	Is that an agreement as far as you're concerned, Mr. Postema?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Where the proposed abolition of the dividend tax is part of the overall burden package for business, we would also like to see it mapped out as closely as possible how this intention relates to an alternative such as the further reduction of corporation tax. We would also like to hear the main issue now, in 2017, when the government, with the support of the VVD, is working on a firm approach to tax avoidance through the customised instrument of withholding taxes and royalty charges, is precisely the legal basis for a dividend tax. A company based in the Netherlands has fulfilled all its tax obligations. You have to. Abuse and misuse are being fought hard, with the support of my group. That company has therefore contributed to the financing of collective provisions in our country. The rest is profit for free use. If the entrepreneur chooses to pay part of it to his capital providers, that is irrelevant if that capital provider lives in the Netherlands, because then the dividend tax is simply offset by the income tax. If, however, a foreign capital provider is involved, the Netherlands raises 15% and whether or not that provider of capital looks back depends on whether and if so what tax treaty the Netherlands has with the country of residence of the provider of capital. Well, here comes the fine example of Mrs Jorritsma, who asked: how do I explain that to the lady in Chile with her hair particles Philips before her retirement? The Financial Dagblad cited this example as hilarious on Saturday, but correct, and spoke of robbing behaviour. I quote: "The Netherlands robs capital gains from residents of other countries, who, unlike their own and many EU citizens, are unable to settle them, and thus de facto tax on profits that have already been taxed. The FD then concludes that the hope is that the Netherlands will lose court cases on the dividend tax, because the dividend tax is already a lost business, according to the FD. That's how frames go. Even before the draft law has been debated, the imagery is ready. As a senate, we should not be involved in this. We must judge on arguments and not on imaging.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr President, that little granny in Chile, that is imagery, and quite cheap imagery too. From a completely remarkable angle, we are going to speak at once about the grandmothers. I very much invite you to use this metaphor more often in the coming year. The more you use it, the more resistance you will generate. However, I did not want to talk about this. I also heard you say that you like to actually investigate. Of course, that appeals to me a lot more, and I do not think you want to go automatically in the list of things that are a rather limited list of things that would seem to support that legal basis argument of yours. Then we are talking about the Isle of Man, Guernsey, Malta, Cyprus and Monaco. Those are apparently parties who have also fought the legal basis. Apparently, the rest of the world doesn't. My main question to the senator is this one. In the Netherlands, we have invested a lot of assets with institutional investors, pension funds and insurers. For them, the abolition of the dividend tax is a very damaging phenomenon, as it no longer enables the tax on withholding tax to be offset through fiscal investment funds. I would like to have an answer from the VVD, especially since we are talking about more than 850 billion in assets invested in the Netherlands through these institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u39	That is a very relevant and fair question. I also assume that the legislative proposal will deal in detail with this element. In any case, we agree that we must all weigh up these facts and these images, including, by the way, the question I have also asked about alternatives. Everything has to be shown. I am concerned, and that is precisely why I mentioned Mrs Jorritsma's example, that we should look at the underlying idea. Of course, you are right, let us have that discussion about that legal basis. This must be seen in conjunction with the fight against fraud in the area of withholding tax, in the area of interest charges. I have read the quote from the FD, consciously it is the Financial Journal to indicate that this discussion can indeed be conducted and that there are arguments for it. That the image that has arisen, with all due respect, that this dividend tax is just a matter of 1.4 billion giving to a bunch of rich Americans and that we can sort of solve all the need in the Netherlands if we didn't do that, is just too simple. If we agree on this, we are going to have that discussion in broad terms, including the point you rightly mention. Those are substantive arguments and we must then exchange them and share them. Then you end up in the First Chamber, when the bill is here, making a total weighing down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u40	And through the chairman, huh? Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to point out that, contrary to that damaging image that you are so disturbing about the rich Americans, you are immediately setting up the image of an arm-grandmother from Chile. You're guilty of that yourself, Mr. De Grave. I think it is important to hear from the VVD Group whether you will actually look objectively at the results of an extensive study of the effects of this dividend tax and whether you will also be willing to consider its conclusions sufficiently in your consideration. Not necessarily because it is included in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr President, I can assure Mr Postema, through you, that we will make the weighing up as carefully as we will undoubtedly do the Labour Party as objectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u43	A supplementary question, because my group also likes to look at what it is actually going to mean. In any case, it is clear that abolishing this dividend tax costs us 1.4 billion in tax money that we could use very well for many social purposes; that it does not create jobs and does not mean anything to the economy. My question is this. It seems relevant to me to see where that profit ends, that 1.4 billion. Research shows that 1.1 billion of these will end up in the hands of foreign governments, so we have absolutely no use for them, and that only 0.3 billion will end up in the hands of those investors abroad. Would you like to respond and would you also consider it relevant to look at this in a more detailed study?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u44	I'm quoting again. I have said that we are explicitly asking questions about this 1.4 billion structuralally. We are also very interested in the answer to the question of how solid this actually is. How does this relate to all the trials that go on? Indeed, I am extremely interested in the justification of the amount. 1.4 billion is a lot of money. We can spend it on all kinds of things. By the way, it is in the business package. So before you have the idea that this can be used for all kinds of important wishes, I would point out that we are primarily dealing with a trade-off in the envelope business to say so. If you're spending $1.4 billion, you're gonna have to back that up. You must have thought that through, but there are two sides to that. I also think it is fair to give the cabinet the opportunity to defend the proposal with arguments. That's where my objection came in. The FD says the subject is politically dead because the debate has already been. According to that newspaper, we don't have to have the debate anymore. That's what I'm resisting. I think that is wrong. Especially here we should judge when all the relevant facts are on the table. We have all the questions you're asking. Insofar as they are relevant, they must be displayed. That can only make sense if you then make the assessment with an open mind when all the facts are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u45	I have a second question. The United Kingdom is one of the few countries that currently do not levy dividends. In that relationship, this is going to mean something. The reasoning is that we would like to bring a number of head offices of companies such as Shell and Unilever to the Netherlands. We do not want these companies to choose London as their location. That is one of the underlying arguments. Do you agree? Are you really prepared to investigate that argument? Your group chairman in the House of Representatives has indicated that this is simply a gamble. I would say that this is an expensive gamble if we do not know the social impact for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u46	Everyone speaks for themselves. I would not have used those words, but I am not Mr Dijkhoff. For my group, we do not gamble. That is why we say that when we have to give a final judgment on this, all the relevant facts and circumstances must be in the picture. Losing headquarters with all its effects is a factor. To what extent that factor is important also depends on all other effects that play. Of course, the proposal will also have to address the question of what this means for the wider locational environment. I think it is clear that the significance of having headquarters is extensive. You can certainly give that a place in your overall consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u47	Is the VVD prepared to have these effects examined in full and really assess with an open mind on that basis whether the abolition of the dividend tax is really a measure that the VVD can support? Are you going to do that in an open way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u48	I repeat my remark. I'm as open in that as you are. I can tell from everything that you're open to it, that you're really interested in all the facts and that you want to objectively weigh them up. We're in it just like that, really. I don't want to go under for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u49	If Mr De Grave and the colleague of GroenLinks are about the same, something beautiful can flourish. I would like to return to what Mr De Grave said earlier in his speech. He didn't understand the emotion surrounding this debate very well. I will explain this very briefly and then I will ask a question about it. Last week we talked in this house about the 378,000 children who are still growing up in poverty in the Netherlands. The cabinet allocates 25 million a year to tackle poverty and debt in families with children. At the same time, 1.4 billion is given away to foreign governments and shareholders. Maybe in that perspective you can understand some of that emotion. You say that if we were not to spend that 1.4 billion on foreign governments and shareholders in the context of the abolition of dividend taxation, this amount would have to benefit business in a different way. The money must remain within the envelope business. I have the next question. Which business does this 1.4 billion benefit exactly? It is (a) clear that most of the money goes to foreign tax. It flows directly to the American treasury. And (b) the CPB has confirmed that this plan, this proposal, creates zero point zero jobs. Which business does this benefit exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u50	We will continue to have the substantive discussion a little in advance. Now it's about frames. You say that the Central Planning Bureau has established that this creates zero-point jobs. No, Mr Van Apeldoorn, the Central Planning Office says that we do not have facts and data to calculate this. That's totally different! And that's how it goes all the time. There's talk of giving away taxpayers' money. We never talk about taxes. Each time there is a background, a frame that makes it clear with which emotion is in the debate even before the debate takes place. That's the emotion I've been talking about. As for the rest, it is true: I shall see this before, if I may put it that way. Do you know what this reminds me of? To the JSF. That is also such a political issue. Whether it was about poverty policy, about the environment or about anything else, it didn't matter. Especially the PvdA, as far as it was not in the government, always had cover for everything, namely the JSF. So is the SP, by the way. Everything could be covered with the JSF, incidental or structural, that didn't matter. Slowly we are now a year off. Everyone was getting a little faint from the JSF. That happened for five years. Now we have a new frame, namely the dividend tax. I know exactly what's gonna happen. The teachers, the poverty, in short, all the needs in the Netherlands can be met if we do not abolish the dividend tax. I have already indicated that considerable burdens are foreseen for business, especially in environmental policy. On balance, there is hardly any reduction in the burden on business in the coalition agreement as opposed to the citizens. We must judge on the basis of facts and circumstances this 1.4 billion, convincing, objective and without frame and bias. If, if, then it becomes clear that something else might be better, then it will have to benefit another measure in the whole of business. We are not in favour of additional burdens for business. So it's not being spent on poverty policy. You can talk to us about other measures. That can always be done, but not through the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u51	The SP Group is still in favour of abolishing the JSF, but this aside
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u52	You can't abolish anything until you have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u53	I'll be brief. Mr De Grave stated that the CPB could not calculate the employment effect. The CPB does not have the figures. My question is to what extent Mr De Grave has an insight into figures that the CPB does not have? Does Mr De Grave have these figures? Does the Cabinet have these figures? If not, on the basis of which does Mr De Grave claim that this will benefit business if there are no figures to support this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u54	I have responded to your comment that the CPB had established that it is zero point zero. I'm not CPB. I'm not capable of that. Part of my question is also to support this as well as possible. For the rest, I note that this 1.4 billion is included in the figures of the Minister of Finance in the total envelope for business. Then there is still a tiny bit of a reduction in the burden for business. If that fails, it is in line with a balance that another measure in the sphere of business needs to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u55	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn. This point is now sufficiently deepened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u56	This can be considered differently, Madam President. Very briefly and finally. The CPB is talking about reducing burdens for abroad, not for business. My question remains the same. Mr De Grave has still not answered that question. Which companies benefit from the proposed abolition of the dividend tax and through which mechanisms? Or does Mr De Grave say that we do not know yet? We're gonna study on it and we're gonna get back to it next year, but we don't really know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u57	I simply referred to the documents of the Minister of Finance. It is neatly included in the figures for the envelope business. If you disagree, see if the Minister is prepared to demolish it from there. Of course, I'm following the calculations of Finance. That's where it's neat and tidy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u58	We are debating a proposal that is not on the agenda for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u59	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u60	It's part of the coalition agreement. It is, of course, very relevant, especially for the image as Mr De Grave points out. For the imagery and also for the preparation of the debate that we are going to have in due course, I refer to N145 from the coalition agreement. In it, an Earnings Stripping measure is envisaged in the framework of the "anti-tax avoidance' Directive, i.e. a reduction for the business sector in the interest relief for investment that is thus included in the envelope of the business sector you are talking about with an estimated return of 1.3 billion. I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn, "Good luck." Do you agree with me that it is wise for the cabinet to discuss and include the broad envelope for business in the preparation of this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u61	I'm already happy with the new coalition partner. Look, that's how coalitions work. A perfect argument, thank you very much. I couldn't have used that yet, but thank you for filling me in on this. We certainly need to include this in the reflections. Moreover, I have spoken about the coherence with the royalties and the limitation of interest rates under the legal basis, but I think it is also good to consider the proceeds for the Treasury in the overall consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u62	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, very briefly now, because this same point was just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u63	This was a bit of a trigger from the coalition partner. Speaking of framing, what Mr Backer is now referring to is also used by the cabinet to argue for lowering corporate tax. We reduce corporate tax, but at the same time we limit the interest deduction. It's two and one, you can't count on rich like this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u64	I have a brief question for Mr De Grave. Does he agree with me that I did not hear him say at the point of the dividend tax that the abolition of the dividend tax can also be justified by the fact that the Netherlands has a very small capital market? Eventually we also want to bring foreign companies here to the fair, to the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, so that the headquarters can also be located here. This leads to employment. Then you have to collect your money from the big capital market outside the Netherlands, whether in Chile or from the English investor and whether it is with pension funds or with investment funds, whether or not you are liable to tax. This is actually what positioning is about, so it is also important that the abolition of the dividend tax is a measure that makes it attractive to raise equity rather than attract debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you very much. I did not indeed do that, but that is because the highest authority in our group, the chairman of the group, has already used it extensively in the general political discussions as an argument. Then it doesn't fit me to repeat this one more time. But I believe that the CDA and the VVD are very much in agreement on this point. This is a supportive argument. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. Taxes will never become popular, but it is very important that society retains sufficient support for taxes, because that is how we pay our collective spending. We can differ on the height, I say to the SP, but they are there and then they also need to be properly financed. I think we'll agree that taxes must be fair. That is why the VVD Group is very pleased that the government agreement indicates that the flat-rate capital and return tax will be replaced by a system based on the actual yield achieved. We have discussed this regularly with the previous Secretary of State and have argued for it. Good. The question to this State Secretary is when this system change can be implemented. In connection with this: another element of offence for many people, citizens and businesses, in my group's view, is the level of the tax rate charged by the tax authority, namely 4% for income tax and 8% for corporation tax. The IRS itself doesn't pay interest. That is, after an extremely long period. I see people smiling here; they all recognize it. That is simply not justifiable and also very bad, I say seriously, for the support in society for taxation. So, I thought, let's take the tax rate into this system of a tax based on the actually achieved return. Isn't that beautiful? Then the citizen pays tax on it, and if the citizen initially paid too little, he or she compensates the tax authority for the damage, so the real income that the tax authority would have achieved if it had been paid in full on time. That's a fair crossing. The tax administration reimburses, we pay the tax administration and the tax administration int what the citizen has about his capital in real returns. On this point, I strongly ask for a commitment from the rulers. If necessary, and this is unique to me, Mr President, because I have never tabled a motion before, I have a motion in my back pocket in case there is no reply to the satisfaction of the VVD Group and of a number of political groups who have also signed up. But I am honestly counting on the persuasiveness of the arguments and their reasonableness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u66	I once tabled a motion on a subject that Mr De Grave spoke about a few sentences ago: the fair distribution of taxes. You can feel it coming, Mr. De Grave. Do you think it is fair that a earner should be treated unfairly vis-à-vis two-earners? But I actually want to broaden it a little bit, because I've discovered... Mr. De Grave is busy with his time, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u67	My clock's ticking!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u68	Sure, I'll get your time, Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u69	What did you say, Mr. De Grave?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u70	My clock's ticking. Thank you for stopping, Mr. Chairman. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u71	No problem at all that Mr De Grave pointed out his clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u72	It doesn't matter either, because he was done with his story, so whether that clock runs for another ten minutes, doesn't matter at all. It's a little over the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u73	Well, okay. It went so fast to zero and I have two more sentences, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u74	Mr President, I shall continue my speech. I had a question about the difference between one and two earners, but I actually want to broaden this question. We've asked questions to the Minister and the Secretary of State. Now it turns out that it's not just about one earner, but also about two earners without children compared to single people without children. Then you get a very different discourse than we had last year. My question to Mr De Grave is how he looks at this fair distribution of taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u75	We have often discussed this with each other. I am incredibly grateful for the persistence of the SGP Group on this issue. It's been a familiar theme for me for a long time, I've explained it to you. I was spokesperson for the VVD in the Lower House when the two-earner law was introduced. It is all based on the principle: do you levy taxes individually or together? At that time, the choice was made to do it individually. That's a choice we've all made. In other words, the fair starting point is taxation of the individual. All this would not be so bad if this were not reinforced by the fact that we are in agreement with the problem of the levy at the bottom: marginal rates. Moreover, you can see in the documents that the proposals made by the Cabinet to do something about marginal rates through the flat fee do help with this issue. That's what I told you back then. We may have to solve the problem in the royal way by ensuring that marginal pressure is not so extreme. That also does a lot and makes the problem that you outline a lot less. The position of the VVD Group is that we do not agree with you that you should levy tax on the joint income, we are in favour of individual taxation, therefore we also supported that two-earner law at the time, but that we are available with you to see if the instrument of reducing marginal pressure can reduce the problem you are describing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you for that answer. Just, I'm talking about a single person right now. He's already on his own and doesn't have a second way to avoid taxes, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u77	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u78	But it's also being dealt with. I'll show you in peace and quiet, and I'll show you some stats that show you that. That's the first aspect I want objects. Shouldn't we be looking at that marginal pressure? It's a bit of a fix for 2021, but for 2018, which we're talking about right now, it's only getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u79	Again, do you tax an individual income or a joint income from the system? This point is also about a single person. A single person with €60,000 has a different marginal pressure than twice €30,000. In that middle group, it's going so high, there's the core of the problem. Let us agree that this is how we need to tackle and solve the problem. The cabinet has a number of good proposals for this. It's gonna have to happen along that line. By the way, your facts are also correct. Previously, it has been indicated that there were very serious tax consequences for people who became two-earners for the two-earner law. When a partner went to work, there was a huge marginal pressure. I have seen examples of partners who, say, went to work 12 hours a week and left zero on balance. So all this also has consequences, because then the marginal pressure arises with a double income. In short, a choice has been made, but the solution, which I share with Mr Schalk, is indeed in a massive attack and as much effort as possible to reduce that marginal pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u80	Finally, Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u81	Finally, Mr President. I will present Mr. De Grave with a state in which you will see that someone who will earn €1,000 more at a given time will turn in €1,000 plus €610. A marginal pressure of 161%. We're about to share it with each other, and I'll come back to it later, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u82	I'm aware of it. Again, I have said a few times that I share this with you. So we really need to get to work on that. Let's see what else we can do there. Absolutely, but we have to run that line. On the principle point of principle "We charge individual or tax on the basis of commonality?' We won't agree, but you know that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is my last point in terms of fairness and balance. We attach importance to a balanced taxation between IB entrepreneurs and DGA shareholders, managing director-large shareholders. According to many tax experts, the proposed increase in the box 2 tax from 25% to 28.5% breaks the balance. This would also impose an additional burden on old profit reserves. Please respond from the Secretary of State. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u83	Thank you, Mr. De Grave. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u84	I can hear you sneeze, Mr. Chairman. Cheers! Madam President. I join the welcome greetings and compliments of the two previous speakers and thank the Secretary of State and his officials for their commitment and commitment to the Tax Plan 2018 package and the bill for phasing out the Wet-Hillen. I have a maximum of six minutes to speak, so I shall proceed quickly. The Tax Plan 2018 package presented by Rutte II on Prinsjesdag 2017 was at the discretion of that outgoing cabinet policy poor. In my group's view, that qualification of the government does not apply to the proposal in the other fiscal measures 2018 of the possible liability of gift tax in the creation or modification of prenup. I'll get back to you in a minute. From the publication of the coalition agreement "Confidence in the future" by Rutte III on 10 October 2017, that tax package was dynamized with the coalition proposals on the gradual phasing-out in 30 years of the Wet-Hillen and the abolition of the dividend tax. Those proposals are intended to enter into force from 2019. Much has already been said and written about these two proposals; not only in the press, but also in science, and in the political arena of the House of Representatives. That's not the end of it. People have expressed massively about the phasing out of Hills with distress, confusion and indignation. The VVD understands this emotion. My group has therefore considered in depth whether the government has sufficiently carefully assessed the deeper feeling of the population about phasing out the Hills benefit. The VVD Group notes that the Hillen deduction was introduced in the heyday and euphoria of the welfare state when the tax money was not available. Prior to the deep financial and economic crisis from 2008, Hillen was a well-defendable facility for older people in particular, but Hillen is and remains a facility. A new cabinet, the new cabinet, can come to a changed understanding on the basis of changed facts and circumstances, and then the abolition of the Hillen deduction hurts. All things considered, my group believes that the 30-year transition period for the phasing-out of Hillen from 2019 is appropriate and necessary. My group therefore accepts the proposal for the gradual phasing-out of Hillen. The VVD Group will closely monitor the period of phasing-out over a period of 30 years. Madam President. I would like to comment on the possible liability of gift tax when entering into or changing the prenup. On the basis of an amendment tabled by Mr Omtzigt, this proposal of the outgoing Rutte II cabinet has been repealed in the legislative proposal Other fiscal measures 2018. My group asked the government to clarify the test criteria that had been established by the Demissionary Cabinet in order to conclude that there was no separate legislative proposal. In this context, the Government responded by referring to the letter of 20 July 2011 from the then Secretary of State for Security and Justice on Collecting Legislation. The answer is not entirely satisfactory. That letter was written by the government at that time on the basis of a commitment to the First Chamber, precisely because of the dilemma for this house if one legislative proposal brings together proposals of a different nature. During the General Financial Reviews on 17 November 2015, this Chamber adopted a motion by former senator Hoekstra on this subject, following an earlier motion on this matter by member Boorsma in 1993. The VVD specifically asks whether the Minister can confirm that the ex post assessment of the test criterion "Failure to comply' in the 2011 letter was not sufficiently weighted in the grant tax proposal. It is now clear that there is a controversial proposal because of Omtzigt's Chamberwide amendment. The VVD Group invites the Minister of Finance to comment on whether the Ministry of Finance can exercise more discipline not so much in relation to the letter of the 2011 letter on Collecting Law, but more in relation to the purpose and scope of the Hoekstra motion to implement independent legislation on the basis of separate legislative proposals. The VVD Group asks the government to submit the announced decision on the possible liability of donation tax when entering into or during the marriage, prior to the announced publication, to the Upper Chamber. Madam President. The VVD Group would like to receive a reply to the following questions in the report of the Upper Chamber, the answer of which is still open: 1. Are tariff changes and disc length changes which relate to later years than the year for which a Tax Plan is drawn up at all desirable? 2. Does the government wish to honour the request of the VVD Group to be informed about the timetable of each system change in the future and at the latest 12 months before the intended entry into force of a system change? 3. Do pension funds exempted in their own country qualify as residents for the new retention exemption? 4. How does the government intend to continue the tax administration's policy of implementing the dividend tax exemption for non-resident pension funds in the Netherlands? Finally. Does the government have the ambition to provide an attractive location in the Netherlands for the management of foreign pension funds? Madam President. I will conclude on behalf of my colleague, De Grave, on the contribution of the VVD in the first term. My group looks forward with interest to the Government's reply to its questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. The SP Group welcomes the new Minister and Secretary of State for Finance. For me, too, it is, of course, very special to see a valued former colleague before me behind the table of government. Today, by way of exception, we combine the General Financial Reviews with a debate on the Tax Plan. In that sense, there is something to say that expenditure and revenue are, of course, inextricably linked. Expenditure on the one hand and its financing through taxation, on the other hand, give a high degree of direction to society. How much money you spend on what, of course, are crucial political choices. Do you opt for accessible and good care without penalty on being sick or do you settle for a freezing of your own risk in exchange for a premium increase? Do you really choose to tackle the division and inequality in society by, for example, increasing the benefits that have been left behind for years and investing more in poverty reduction or reducing the benefits of one of the most vulnerable groups in our society? Do you choose to invest in military or in the further militarisation of international relations and in counterproductive war on terror? Mr. Chairman. What choices you can make at all on the expenditure side of course depends in the first place on how much tax you collect. The overall size of public finances, and of our public sector, is also a political choice. And then it's a fundamental political choice where you collect those taxes from. Whether you have any extra taxes mainly on those for whom life is already so expensive and who have already turned in the most or on those who have made the most progress. Whether you ease the burdens for those who create the value or for those who mostly assume the value. Whether you reduce the burden for workers in the Netherlands or for governments and shareholders abroad. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group believes that the new cabinet does not always make the right choices. Some choices we welcome or see as a step in the right direction. But in the end, our conclusion is that this cabinet does not invest enough in society, in people. Where multinationals go above people, this cabinet and this Minister and Secretary of State cannot count on our support. Mr. Chairman. The new government inherits from its predecessor a budget that is in balance, a national debt that is falling and an economy that is finally growing again after a triple dip recession. But this minister also inherits a Netherlands in which the division has grown and where, due to the cuts of Rutte I and Rutte II, the public sector has been distorted. A catch-up in public investment is therefore urgently needed. Moreover, the 2008 financial crisis has shown that the relationship between the real economy and the financial sector as well as between labour and capital was completely out of control. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, disposable incomes have risen twice as fast as incomes to around moderate levels and the pay gap between the highest and lowest paid has continued to rise, while benefit recipients, including the most vulnerable groups in this society, have been lagging further behind. What does this cabinet do now? Is this growing inequality finally being stopped? Is that gap being reduced? No, inequality is increasing during this cabinet period. The average average income per year is 0.8%, the average income per year is 1.3% and the average income per year is 1.4%. Does this now meet the widely shared desire of society to really address the growing inequality in our country? I'd like a response from the Minister. And perhaps the Minister can explain to us why the inequality for this cabinet is clearly not a theme at all. In the coalition agreement, it doesn't occur once. Or is this a mistake? In the meantime, the capacity inequality remains appallingly high in this country, also in an international perspective. The cabinet does not seem to want to do anything about this. But does the Minister think it is normal that 10% of households in the Netherlands hold 66% of their assets? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Where the growing division in society is perhaps the most poignant, there is persistent child poverty. One in nine children grows up in poverty. The Children's Ombudsman's report that came out last week shows what poverty means to children. Children who grow up in poverty at home have a lot of stress and tension, give their lives a lower report rate and come more difficult with them in school. These children then also have less good development opportunities. Tackling this problem seems to me an expensive duty. We were therefore pleased with the thorough SER report that was issued before the summer as a result of a previous motion by this Chamber, and the policy recommendations made in it. Our group is therefore very pleased that last week, almost Chamberwide, the Kox motion, which calls on the government, following a recommendation from the ESC, to come up with a proposal for a government-wide reduction target and thus a real structural reduction in the number of children growing up in poverty. We will, of course, closely monitor the implementation of this motion. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he has any ideas on how to achieve such a reduction target. This in addition to the half sentence now contained in the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. While the economy is growing strongly and the government can spend more without growing deficits, this government chooses not to reverse the already planned reduction in Wajong benefit. Everyone is getting better, this cabinet claims, but the most vulnerable group gets less than €80 a month. The SP Group considers this to be antisocial. Does the Minister recognise that this group must turn in and can he explain why he considers that to be justified? In addition, by replacing the wage subsidy with wage dispensation, people with reduced working hours are at risk of being paid less than the minimum wage for their work. We consider this to be fundamentally incorrect. In our view, it is also contrary to the principle also upheld by the cabinet that work should be paid. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The division has also grown in the Netherlands due to the underemployment of wages in productivity growth and thus in profits. The labour income ratio is historically low. This is not only a problem from the point of view of social justice but also a problem for the economy. So much is now even recognised from the angle where wage moderation has always been called the hardest. It's better halfway back than all the way down. Even VVD Prime Minister Rutte and the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Klaas Knot, are now openly calling for higher wages. But this minister does not seem to really want to join that growing choir, as if he still has to be convinced, as a last resort, that the delay in wages has taken too long. In the Lower House he did not want to repeat it to the Prime Minister. That is why I am asking him here: does the Minister support the call of the Prime Minister and of DNB President Knot to increase wages? I'd like a clear yes or no. Mr. Chairman. I now come to the chapter on public investment. In the coalition agreement, the term "investments" is frequently used. And yes, there will be more money for primary education, and we welcome this. There's finally going to be investment in nursing care. We in the SP Group are very pleased with that. There's gonna be more money for the police. All a good thing and much needed as far as we are concerned. But a more detailed analysis shows that the real catch-up isn't going to happen. There is a net reduction in healthcare costs. The penalty for being ill, despite the electoral promises of various coalition parties, is not reduced. Fortunately, more money is being released for justice and security, but this will not be able to repair the damage caused by successive cuts in previous Cabinets. The teachers in primary education did not go on strike again today without reason. Higher education's getting pretty messed up. There is enough money for additional investments in the quality of our society. That's a matter of making choices. A political choice made by this cabinet is to maintain a budget surplus for the coming years. The SP Group prefers to make a different choice. If the needs of society are still so high and if the economy has just climbed out of a deep valley and now needs investment to become sustainable future-proof, then you should not take up the money. There is no question of overheating the Dutch economy. And some heating would be good; then those wages finally go up. But even if we opt for a budget surplus for the coming years, we could invest much more than we do now. That too is a matter of choices. Does the Minister agree with us that the cabinet could have opted for more investment, even without debt financing and even with a constant surplus? I'd like a response. For example, we could opt for something that my party has been advocating for years to finally start to tax big assets in the Netherlands. This not only tackles an important but often neglected dimension of inequality, but also brings more money into the government's bureaucracy. Money that you can spend on matters that improve the quality of our society: to higher salaries in primary education, for example, or to more teachers in higher education, or to better working conditions in healthcare, or to further greening or to combat poverty in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The SP Group finds it incomprehensible that in the coalition agreement we read so little about this cabinet's plans for child poverty, while at the same time it is announced that 1.4 billion a year is being thrown overboard to satisfy Shell and Unilever's boardrooms. Yeah, so I'm just gonna come to the intermediate head of foreign debt relief, just to use the term from the CPB transfer. I hadn't met that term before. Maybe it's a novel in the history of the rich budget. Charge relief for abroad, alias the mega gift for those who do not need it and at the expense of those who could very well use it more. In short, in coalition circles also known as: the melon. The Christian Union in the House of Representatives finally managed to swallow this melon. That's extremely handsome. I wonder if she'll show this sample in the First Chamber as well. Moreover, like the other members of the coalition, it still has plenty of time to practice the art of melon swallowing, because it will take some time for this proposal to be dealt with as a law here. The cabinet also has a short time to work on the explanatory memorandum and on a renewed attempt to arrive at a sound foundation. The SP Group is looking forward to this, together with Mr De Grave. But if that justification is not forthcoming, it should actually be a rotten melon for the entire First Chamber in its role to reflect critically on the quality of legislation, which can be better left standing. The fact that the D66 Group has not yet reached a conclusion, as we heard last week, gives hope. Mr. Chairman. I would remind you that it is 1.4 billion a year, structural year in year out. The Minister and the Secretary of State do not even know exactly who is going to be wiser, as is shown by answers to questions from this Chamber. The only thing we know for sure is that the citizens of the Netherlands will not benefit at all. I'd like a response from the Minister and the Secretary of State. It is clear, however, that much of the tax money will soon flow directly into the treasury of other countries, the US first. Reference has already been made to the SOMO report. Where it is given away to foreign shareholders, the SP fraction expects negative rather than positive effects. It will certainly not help to protect our companies from hostile takeovers. Or is this minister really convinced of that? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The proposed abolition of the dividend tax is a sign for us that the cabinet has been led by the lobby of the large company. Of course, it's not the first time this has happened. The power of multinationals in the financial sector is far too great. The political influence of the boardrooms of Shell and Unilever, so clearly expressed in the Rutte III cabinet, means nothing but a hollowing out of our democracy. Or can the Minister explain once again what the democratic basis for a proposal that was not included in any electoral programme? Is this an expression of the will of the electorate who went to the ballot box on 15 March? Or is it an expression of the fact that the coalition parties, and the prime minister in the lead, and how exactly should we not know that we would have liked to have listened to a lobby of a powerful economic elite? I'd like a response from the Minister. To the extent that arguments have already been put forward from the cabinet side for this annual gift of 1.4 billion, it means that we must, above all, give in to the pressure of mobile capital, especially to activist shareholders, above all, must go first, even in tax competition, rather than restricting all this by means of legislation and regulation. And that while the Netherlands is about the last to deny this, this coalition has been a tax haven for the same multinationals for many years. In the meantime, the cabinet proposes to reduce corporate tax to 21% for the high rate, while profit tax is higher in most neighbouring countries. So we are leading the race to the bottom. Then where does it end, so we ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkhoff referred to the abolition of the dividend tax as a gamble. The SP Group doesn't like to gamble with 1.4 billion. We did not expect this from the cabinet or from this minister, but it fits in with the picture of casino capitalism that brought our entire financial and economic system to the brink of collapse in 2008 and plunged the world into a deep and long recession. An economy that works for all of us is also an economy in which the financial sector is of service to society. Here too, my group lacks a vision of the cabinet. Maybe the Minister can give it to you after all. What lessons does he learn from the financial crisis? To what extent does he think that enough has already been done to make the financial system safe again? It seems to him that it is enough, because the government agreement proposes to reduce capital buffer requirements again from 4% to 3%. The SP Group considers that to be extremely unwise. The minister's predecessor advocated 6% in the spring, at least in the desired direction. With this cabinet and this minister, we seem to be going the other way again. Can he explain this choice? Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, and much has already been said on this point, the increase in the low VAT rate will make the messages more expensive. Of course, this affects the most people for whom the daily messages are already so expensive and who can afford little luxury. As shown by an earlier study by the CBS, this mainly increases the tax burden on the lowest income. Does the Minister agree that the VAT increase is particularly bad for the lowest income? So these are the choices made by this government: to make the messages more expensive and at the same time to give 1.4 billion to the shareholders of multinationals and to the foreign tax authorities. And this is because the bosses of Shell and Unilever and his friends from VNO-NCW have talked to the prime minister so often that he was going to feel it up to all his fibers. What a mockery of our democracy. Does this government find it strange that people lose faith in politics? Finally, the Tax Plan 2018. The Group of the Party of European Socialists supports the vast majority of the proposals, but not the proposal to increase the tax-free rate and the capital efficiency levy from 25,000 to €30,000, as this is mainly beneficial to people with high capacities. A person with a capacity of €27,500 will advance two tens a year, with a capacity of €75,000 that is four tens, and above 1 million eight tens. The SP wants to increase the capital gains tax, especially for millions of assets. Mr. Chairman. To sum up, our opinion is that the cabinet is inadequate in terms of its own ambition to ensure that the Netherlands not only progresses in the statistics, but that the Dutch also experience this themselves. The division increases rather than decreases, so that some Dutch people will experience the recovery but others will experience much less or not at all, including the most vulnerable groups in our society. In the meantime, the lobby of big business is giving the cabinet an ear of 1.4 billion a year. Real confidence in the future and confidence in politics will require more. We therefore look forward to the Minister's first real budget next year to see whether the hand will be extended to the opposition. In the meantime, we look forward to the reply of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u87	I have not heard from Mr Van Apeldoorn about the extension of the withholding tax exemption in the dividend tax which leads to a budgetary loss of 30 million. Can he give a judgment on that? This is part of the Law on the obligation of retention of holding cooperatives and extension of retention exemptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u88	Is it about the dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u89	It is about bringing the holding cooperative under the dividend tax combined with extending the withholding tax exemption in the dividend tax leading to a budgetary loss of 30 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u90	That's in the tax package.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u91	I would disagree, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u92	Thank you for this suggestion. That is indeed in the package and we do not agree with it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u94	Madam President. On behalf of the CDA group, we also warmly congratulate the new rulers of Finance on their debut here in this house in this capacity. At least this applies to the Minister of Finance. We are assuming constructive dialogue and will welcome the Rutte III cabinet, as our group chairman Elco Brinkman described last week in the General Political Reviews. Now we know that the Minister of Finance is an avid long-distance skater. In order to hold on to that image, I would first like to consider the state of government finances. In all objectivity and with appreciation, we note that the previous cabinet, in particular the previous minister, has been paying close attention to the cash. The ice is nice and smooth. According to the Autumn note, this year's budget surplus is 0.4% of gross domestic product and the government debt ratio has fallen below 60%, 57.3% of GDP. The Autumn note shows that the Netherlands stands out in a positive way compared to the average in the Eurozone. There are no overruns in the expenditure framework, on balance a windfall of 2.4 billion, and on the revenue side there is also a slight windfall of 100 million. The European Commission is therefore very much in favour of the draft budget plan after the year 2017. For the whole period 2017-2021, a budget surplus is expected and the sovereign debt ratio will decrease further. However, it is worrying to note in the Autumn note that there is a setback in the EUR 450 million donation and inheritance tax. The question to the Secretary of State for Finance is how this can be done and whether this is one-off or structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u95	Beautiful texts, including those on public debt, but I understand that the public debt at the end of the budgeted period is even higher than before we entered the crisis in 2008. Shouldn't there be a faster repayment of public debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u96	I think that is what Mr Schalk means in a relative sense. The government debt ratio is expected to be around 47% of gross domestic product at the end of this cabinet period. That is indeed not as low as just before the Lehman crisis broke out, so in the 2009 budget. But that also indicates the long way to go. We are, of course, dependent on a number of variables, not least economic growth. I'll get back to you on that. Former Minister Jeroen Dijsselbloem, the Wageningen agricultural economist, operated in the beginning as a true Hans Brinker who had to keep his finger in the dike, especially in order to prevent that sovereign debt from rising too high. Later he received reinforcements from Secretary of State Wiebes, a real Delft mechanical engineer. However, few know the true story of the American bestseller "Hans Brinker or the silver skates." It was about Hans and his sister Greet's skating ambition. On wooden skates they prepared to win a long distance race skating. The crown would be silver skates. Now we do not have Hans and Greet, but the Leiden lawyer Wopke Hoekstra and the Groningen monetary economist Menno Snel at the Ministry of Finance. With a wink at the two skating shields from the sixties and seventies of the last century, Ard Schenk and Kees Verkerk, we could also call them Ard and Keesie. Let us assess in four years' time whether they will rise to the same Olympic heights as those legendary long-distance skaters Ard Schenk and Kees Verkerk. The 10 kilometers started for these rulers. Madam President. What a small country can't be big at. The Netherlands is a small country with over 17 million inhabitants, but a country with a large open economy in a very volatile and uncertain world. The ambition must be that we, the Netherlands, want to remain one of those top 20 countries, as the coalition agreement rightly states. Then we will continue to offer a perspective to all those who want to build a future in this country. What developments and uncertainties can have a major impact on the Dutch economy? Without wanting to be complete, I would like to mention the following three. The first is the future of the EU and, more particularly, the Brexit. The second is the first American policy and the impact on international trade. Finally, I would like to mention the major technological changes and their impact on the economy: digitisation, robotisation, bitcoins, blockchains and automation. All these developments and uncertainties also affect the policy to be pursued in the field of taxation, both internationally and nationally. Let us briefly consider all three. Assuming that a new German coalition has been formed in the short term, the question will arise as to what acceleration the EU will go in. The White Paper published earlier this year by the European Commission outlined five scenarios. The new French President Emmanuel Macron has a clear vision of the future of the EU and the euro area. For example, he wants to measure the issue of the Banking Union, his own Finance Minister for the euro area, and further powers for the EU in budgetary policy. Now French people can't skate very well, but this French president has started very quickly with enthusiastic supporters who are behind him and with a race schedule. What does the Minister of Finance say about this? What's our answer to that French rush? Brexit is coming at us in the short term. It is not yet clear whether it will be a soft or a hard landing. Economic interests for not only the United Kingdom, but also the EU and certainly the Netherlands are particularly important. Would the rulers indicate how they intend to find the right balance for the Netherlands in a potentially deepening EU under the leadership of the big countries after a soft or hard landing Brexit? Madam President. The CDA Group has taken note with approval of the tax paragraph in the coalition agreement. This is particularly true of the section dealing with international fiscal policy, so-called en- en-policy. On the one hand, there is proactive further involvement in the international agenda of the OECD and the EU to combat tax avoidance and abuse. On the other hand, the Netherlands continues to position itself as an attractive country for foreign and domestic entrepreneurs and companies. The coalition agreement has developed a very clear vision on this which the CDA Group supports. The rates of corporation tax are being reduced, especially by broadening the base, including less interest relief, as Mr Bakker has just pointed out. Secondly, the dividend tax is abolished. Thirdly, the abuse of Dutch tax treaties is unilaterally avoided by introducing a withholding tax on dividends, royalties and interest on money flows to low-tax jurisdictions. Fourthly, I would like to mention the retention of the 30% rule. These four elements should be the building blocks of international fiscal policy for the next ten years. In this way, a small country without a large capital market remains attractive to large countries. Long-distance skating is a long-term vision. In recent years there have been many short track skaters on the fiscal ice, as the rulers have experienced in their honeymoon weeks. For the long term, the question arises as to how the government looks at a possible acceleration of the fiscal agenda in the EU, when the European Commission and the European Parliament's rapporteurs get what they want. We are referring to the possibility of an accelerated political agreement on the two draft directives on corporate taxation, the so-called CCCTB and CCCTB. Last year, a majority in this House made a retention of subsidiarity and proportionality in relation to these draft directives. We are curious to see what the commitment of these rulers in Brussels will be to this important issue of profit taxation. I'd like a response. As far as the first American policy is concerned, we are currently seeing the US Congress dealt with a tax reform package as a matter of urgency. For international trade and therefore also for the EU and the Netherlands, the tax on profits is particularly important. The commitment is a substantial reduction in the tax rate for profits and the introduction of the so-called territoriality principle, a principle which the Netherlands itself has been applying for a very long time. In this way, it will again be attractive for American multinationals to repatriate the profits they have earned outside the United States to the United States and from there to reinvest again, apparently primarily in the United States itself. I have not yet mentioned the introduction of a possible 20% penalty charge on companies that do not invest in America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u97	I hear Mr Van Rij sketching beautiful images of international politics and comparisons and so on. My question to Mr Van Rij would be: will you also be able to compare it with the countries around us? I am only talking about two countries, Belgium and Germany, and in particular the increase in VAT. This is also a tax rate, and this directly affects Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u98	Madam President, that is exactly the difference between Mr Van Strien and me: Mr Van Strien is looking at this, and that is to be praised in him, as far as he is looking abroad, only just across the border to Germany and Belgium, and he is restricting himself to VAT. What I am trying to demonstrate is that outside the Netherlands a number of developments are taking place that will have a very significant impact on the Dutch economy, on the Dutch way of taxation. That goes far beyond the issue he is putting on the table. I will not return to VAT separately in a moment, but I would like to respond to it. First of all, we await the Government's response, including the Barth motion that has been tabled. We also support the 3% increase, which is part of a comprehensive package. You must therefore take this into account in its entirety, as described in the letter from the cabinet. So you should not take out that 3%, you should look at the total income tax package, at the reductions that are in it and at the consequences that affect purchasing power. On balance, you will see that purchasing power will increase for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u99	I note that a large number of sections of the population are important to Mr Van Rij, but the groups with lower incomes, the large number of people living within a reasonable distance from the border, shopkeepers and so on, as I hear, Mr Van Rij has no message of this. That's what the PVV is for, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u100	No, Madam President, if I may respond immediately. Of course, we are sensitive to all the effects of the overall package. What you are doing is picking out one thing and focusing on the border, and you are also assuming the wrong assumptions. The assumption you use is that the VAT increase would be bad for the lowest incomes. However, I should like to refer to the report of the Central Planning Bureau of 2014, which shows very clearly that the income effects you want to place here are not correct. An increase in the lowest VAT rate is equally good for people with lower, middle or higher incomes. And of the effects for entrepreneurs, I have said that I await the reaction of the cabinet first. I would remind you, however, that the barbers, when the rate went down to 6%, kept the advantage that was intended for consumers in their own pockets. Read that again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u101	Mr. Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u102	I assume that Mr Van Rij knows what the low rates in our neighbouring countries are Belgium and Germany. I think that this is rightly mentioned and that the CDA, to stay in Mr Van Rij's metaphor, is driving a bit of a crooked skate here. On previous occasions, the world was too small when it came to excise duties on petrol and diesel. At that time, there was a marked comparison with our neighbouring countries, but now the VAT rate is going to be higher here than in Germany and Belgium, and this has a major impact on those border regions. In the past, the CDA has taken a strong stand on this, and now Mr Van Rij says: I am not going to go into that in my speech. That's a really crooked skate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u103	I would like to respond to that as follows. I would be happy to start that debate with Mr Nagel, but at the moment when it is really on the agenda. And again, as far as the overall package is concerned, I wait first...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u104	The increase is now on the table, isn't it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u105	Mr. Nagel, let Mr. Van Rij speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u106	The point is that I also await the reaction of the cabinet first. The increase from 6% to 9% is not in next year's tax plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u107	It is in the agreement and that agreement is there for a reason. There is a CDA signature underneath it and that is contrary to everything we have experienced in the discussion on excise duties on petrol and diesel. Then the CDA was in the front row, and now the CDA's going down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u108	Madam President, if I may respond briefly, there is a real difference between an increase in VAT on the lowest rate and excise duties. After all, VAT is a tax and excise duties are not, as you know. We have not, of course, looked at this measure separately. We see this in the overall package and again, I await the government's reaction to the Barth motion before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u109	I do note an important trend break at the CDA, which has been advocating good impact assessments for years when fiscal measures are being taken, particularly when we look at border effects. A motion for this was tabled by Mr Van Rij's predecessor in the previous period, and his colleague Mrs Oomen has also recently been glowingly advocating this in the Limburg Parliament. So I think it is very strange that you are now hiding behind a notion of the complete package, and that you should be hiding behind the government's reaction. Surely we can expect the CDA Group to have a position of its own. If, indeed, you deviate from a previous position, then I think that you have a responsibility for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u110	Madam President, I'm going to repeat myself. However, we would like to take up the issue which also applied when Mr Postema's party was part of the coalition. There is now a coalition agreement and this is part of that coalition agreement. The proposals are yet to come. Of course, there is also a further justification for this. It is not just the increase in that reduced VAT rate, it is the total package. That is not the case now, and I am not going to anticipate that either. The CDA Group itself has not done an impact assessment, and I am very curious, Madam President, what Mr Postema meant by 'the Limburg Parliament', because that is a new one for me from a constitutional point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u111	I guess provincial states, I guess, don't they, Mrs. Oomen? She nods yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u112	Mr President, I invite you to look closely at the rules of the Limburg Parliament. Everyone can learn something from it, including Mr Van Rij. I find it strange that you say that you have not produced an impact assessment. That was exactly what you asked for to be standardized for tax measures with border effects. You seem to be departing from that now, and I would be particularly sorry if you did not want a factual examination of the effects of the VAT increase later, referring to a cabinet response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u113	Very briefly. I really leave the order as it is. The cabinet is coming up with the proposals. We will hear from the cabinet whether it will produce an impact assessment or not, and only then will we react. So you'll be patient, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u114	I would like to return to one aspect of the impact of the VAT reduction. The Nibud has calculated that 27% of the services and products that people with the lowest income are those with an income at the level of welfare and above that they buy under the low VAT rate. For average incomes this is 20%. There is indeed an additional effect on the lowest incomes. That's a pretty good touch of that pretty soon. Do you not think that a more detailed impact analysis should examine whether this has a solid effect on certain incomes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u115	That's a question ahead of you. I have been asked that question in several ways. I keep saying I'm really waiting for the government's answer first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u116	I have a second question on this point. The government says it's about shifting taxes on labour to taxes on consumption. We all think we should eat healthy. Do you not find it strange that we are actually slowing down the consumption of fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u117	In a political sense, you can discuss where to put the accent. In general terms, a shift from labour to consumption should also appeal to you. Only you make choices in that and you can think differently about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u118	I would like to return to the issue of cohesion. I'm putting this point to the motion. By the way, we will not vote on motions until they have been tabled at all. We get a reaction from the government first and the motion is still under arrest. We also have the question of what is the use of an impact assessment if you do not see it in conjunction. It concerns not only the effects of the VAT increase, but also the use of that 1.5 billion to reduce IB rates. As a result, people get more in their pockets and can spend more. How would you feel if the PvdA said that the impact assessment should also be about coherence, about the overall package? Then what's your feeling? That lingered during the General Political Reviews. I understand you very well. We also believe that only an impact assessment on VAT without consistency makes no sense. What if the PvdA says that this should be seen in conjunction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u119	I agree with Mr De Grave. You need to look at the coherence of the overall package. An impact assessment should focus on this. I hope that it will be so specific that you can have the discussion that Mr Postema would like, namely on the effects in the border region. I understand very well that he makes that point. This is part of the larger impact assessment. If the PvdA wants to amend the motion to that effect, it might be attractive. This obviously depends on the way in which the government reacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u120	Finally, Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u121	It is important to come to some sort of conclusion now, also thanks to Mr De Grave. A standalone analysis is never beating. We must avoid undersnowing the specific focus on border effects, including on SMEs. We've had a lot of calls to look at this very critically. It is therefore about the buying behaviour of citizens of specific products. This is the point Mrs Fox made. I would like to take the suggestions of both colleagues to look at this motion again in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u122	That looks like a very constructive round of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u123	But there's Mr Ribnnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u124	If possible, I'm even more constructive. I would like to know now or at another time where the total report that we are heading for now is substantially different from what the Central Planning Bureau has long provided. If the only difference is the cross-border effect, we have to see it now, because then we can save ourselves a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u125	This is a very fair question. I'm sure they'll think a little bit more about that. In any case, the positive basic position is there. It is a good thing that we are not conducting the debate in isolation but in coherence. That is what I believe is the profit of this round of interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u126	To clarify the following: I don't think the CPB transfers included the increase in the low rate of VAT, but I may have misread it. It says that this has not been included in the purchasing power picture, but that it only has a general effect on inflation. The point is that this increase does indeed affect certain groups more and that this has not been taken into account in the current purchasing power figures. Perhaps Mr Van Rij could take this into account in his considerations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u127	I'd like to leave that to the real Minister and the real Secretary of State for Finance, if that's all right with you. I will continue my speech. Another question is whether taxation is still in line with the digitisation of the economy in terms of both direct and indirect taxation. The CDA Group agrees with the government that taxation in the digital economy should primarily take action at global level, within the OECD. But our question to the Secretary of State for Finance is how long we can continue to take this position when countries like France consider unilaterally introducing a so-called GAFA tax, a Google-Apple-Facebook-Amazon tax. Digitisation also brings benefits to the Tax Administration when it comes to analysing data, especially now that the exchange of information is well underway. The question is whether our Tax Administration is sufficiently prepared to process the huge amount of data properly and efficiently. Can the Secretary of State respond to that? Despite the fact that the ice is so smooth and beautiful, we will have to keep an eye on it again. It can just snow and then you don't see very well if you're skating in a skate. The vulnerabilities for the coming period I would like to pass on briefly. The cabinet has rightly opted for a solid investment agenda. Overall, in the period 2017-2021 it amounts to 14.5 billion, partly due to an increase in expenditure and partly due to a reduction in the burden. The Council of State points out that, in the case of cyclical counterwinds, skating stars will need immediate action: a cutting wind from the east............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The margin against the medium-term objective for the budgetary balance is small. The chosen assumption of 2% growth is well-founded, but not prudent. The CDA Group found the cabinet's reaction to the Council of State's opinion somewhat lean. Would the Minister still give a detailed and concrete answer to the analysis and suggestions of the Council of State, such as conditional granting of intensifications for later years, working with a budget reserve or decision-making envelope? If the European Central Bank's policy on monetary financing is reversed less gradually and with greater shocks, it can become a clumsy one. In essence, the ECB's monetary experiment has never been shown before and has kept banks in the southern euro area countries on track. But does it really work? If long-term interest rates are to rise more sharply than is now foreseen in the short and medium term, then this will also have a direct effect on the national budget, especially now that it has been decided to rank interest charges under the government budget. And what account will the Netherlands be presented, for example, if Greece were to go wrong after all? Can the Minister reflect on that? Speaking of interest rates, I would like to move on to the vulnerability of the redemption-free mortgages, as described by De Nederlandsche Bank in the last half-yearly report. Almost 55% of the outstanding bank loans secured by a mortgage on a home consist of a so-called redemption-free mortgage. That amounts to EUR 340 billion and is almost half of our GDP next year, a huge amount. DNB rightly pointed out that banks should do something about this towards their customers. The large bulk of loans will have to be repaid in less than twenty years' time. That sounds far away, but it's not. That could turn into some kind of icing bramble on the skating skate. The Income Tax Act 2001 has become a completely opaque patchwork at home. The Council of State speaks of a complex accumulation of regulations. Seven different Cabinets have been responsible for this in the past 17 years. This creates problems in the implementation process. As a citizen, you have to keep separate accounts if you are to be able to follow the cumulation of the measures taken. Then it's no longer skating on smooth ice, but ice skating on bumpy ice with lots of wakes. Strictly legal systematic, the home is a source of income in box 1 of the Income Tax Act 2001. This means that a flat-rate income, consisting of a spending component and an investment component, should always be indicated and interest should be fully deductible. That hasn't been the case for a long time. The answers to our written questions give an almost staggering picture. I'll sum it up. The maximum duration of the mortgage interest deduction for one main residence was limited to 30 years on 1 January 2001. The loan scheme of 1 January 2004 de facto limited the amount of the mortgage interest rate deduction when achieving a positive alienation balance. The introduction of the Hillen deduction on January 1, 2005 tried to stimulate redemption. The villa tax was introduced in 2008. In 2010, the loan scheme for cheaper housing was abolished. With effect from 1 January 2013, the repayment obligation for the property debt has been introduced. It provides for a minimum annual repayment obligation of up to 30 years. In 2014, the so-called tariff measure was introduced. And then I leave aside the changes in exempt savings for one's own home, and the introduction and then the abolition of deductible interest on the rest of the debt. Let alone how the current arrangements work out for cohabitation, marriage, divorce, immigration and emigration. The Science Council for Government Policy announced earlier this year that it has not yet done so. The question is: who really knows about the tax treatment of one's own home? Even the most law-abiding citizen has become suspicious of the politics that each cabinet period re-dedicates to its own housing deficit and mortgage interest deduction. And the house is the only property for a lot of people. They do not take light decisions on this, given the great long-term financial consequences. In the meantime, the budgetary consequences of the house deposit balance and mortgage interest relief have decreased by many billions. This is due to a limitation of the mortgage interest rate deduction and the lower interest rate. In that sense, the argument that the Hills Act is becoming priceless does not really appeal. In 30 years, Hillen would cost 1.1 billion, while the net balance of the owner's deposit and mortgage interest rate deduction is expected to fall further to 4.8 billion euros. Maintaining Hillen would cost 5.9 billion in structural terms. This is still 2 billion cheaper than the budgetary cost of the balance of the house deposit and the mortgage interest rate deduction plus Hillen deduction in 2018. Can the rulers explain again why the Hillen scheme would be priceless in relation to total budgetary expenditure on own homes? Madam President. As you can see, the rulers will have to use the necessary persuasion to cross the CDA-First Chamber as regards the phasing-out of deductions. Hopefully, when replying, the spinning of pirouets is avoided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u128	I listen with great attention to the skating adventures of colleague Van Rij. He himself asked the question which gave extremely insightful answers on the overall fiscal burden, which runs from 10 million a year to 7. From that you can draw the conclusion that it is not so bad. You can also reason in reverse: from the richkas is incredibly long and very much subsidised to your own home. That is another political weighting of the numbers, of course. He doesn't make it. As a result, he comes to the government in response to his question. He outlined the complexity of the scheme. There have of course been many discussions about it and there is also a lot of literature about it. I see behind Mr Van Rij the shadow of Leo Stevens, I think, who has also published on this issue. He says: then take it to box 3 or make it simple and clear. There's a lot of people talking about that. Mr Van Rij is now asking the government for a ruling, but does he himself have a thought that he wants to develop? Or is it merely the determination of complexity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u129	With regard to the question of budgetary importance, I would like to say the following. You are right that for years that has always been the policy of the CDA, for decades the policy of home ownership has been promoted. In fact, this has always been done in the past by allowing the mortgage interest deduction to be fully deductible. I think it is right to understand that there are serious risks involved. Now you see that more and more people are putting equity into their own homes, including using the Hills Act but also since the change in 2013. If you take on a new loan now, you'll have to pay off in 30 years. So you see a shift from debt to saving with your own home, to call it that. We would like to start the debate on how far you should not encourage this as a government. Then you get the question: to what extent? That is quite right, because that should not be the new open-ended system. Are we ready yet? No, we're not ready yet. Your second question, if I may analyse it in this way, is: why do you ask about the complexity, because you can see it yourself? There are now so many inconsistencies, including in implementation, that it is really a problem in implementation, not only with the citizen but also with the Tax Administration. The question is whether we can already simplify with the current law. The State Secretary has already promised an evaluation of this scheme in the Lower House for 2020. I await the answer of the cabinet, if you will allow it. We will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u130	Thank you. Oh, no, you weren't done. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u131	I'm almost done; the ice skating comes to an end. Madam President. The government agreement announces a whole package of measures with regard to changes in the pension system. I'll sum up briefly. The so-called average systematiek is abolished. For all contracts, an age-dependent premium becomes compulsory and the participants receive a structure that matches the premium deposited. People continue to share risk derivatives, social partners develop a new pension contract, there remains a collective benefit phase and there will be a collective buffer. The system has freedom of choice as its starting point. Thus the coalition agreement. An amount of 1 billion has also been set aside to tackle the average system in fiscal terms. Could the Secretary of State be more specific about that? We know from experience in this house that the Law on phasing-out pensions had to go a very long way in its own administration, before a parliamentary majority emerged. This law was delayed on 1 April last, after last year's decision by the predecessor of this Secretary of State for Finance to adopt a novella. By the way, when can the Secretary of State indicate how many taxpayers have opted for a buy-back in 2017? Finally, Madam President, I would like to conclude. With regard to the 2018 Tax Plan and the other draft laws, the CDA Group has received a satisfactory response to the written questions, for which thanks. Our compliments on the speed and, in general terms, also on the clarity of the answers. With interest we look forward to the note on taxing the real return, as promised by the Secretary of State for the beginning of next year. That sounds fast! Finally, we are bringing to your attention the problems of frontier workers, as described yesterday in the 'Financinge Dagblad'. These are taxable persons, particularly from Germany and Belgium, who will have to request the general tax rebate by means of a very cumbersome procedure. Would you like to respond to that? Don't you have a better administrative solution for that? We have great confidence in both rulers and are waiting with interest for their answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u132	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rij. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I could give Mr Postema the floor, but not Mrs Sent. Is it true that you are so paired up, or that Mrs. Sent says, "Shit"? I see that you are not so attached to Mrs Sent, Mr Postema. Yeah, I mean, ideologically politically, but right now, I can do it. You have the floor, Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Labour Party too, we warmly welcome the two new directors of Finance to this Chamber. We wish them every success in the important tasks they face. One of these is the definition of the broad lines of financial policy, which I shall go into more detail. Next, my colleague Sent will focus on the 2018 Tax Plan and the Wet-Hillen. That's what we do as a couple. Together strong, as we say within the Labour Party. Mr. Chairman. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet has implemented a combination of austerity and structural reforms in recent years. As a result, the Dutch public finances are in good shape. Calculations by the CPB show that this is also the case for the medium term under unchanged policies. In the 2018 budget, the previous cabinet has made room for measures to strengthen household purchasing power. Without these measures, the median purchasing power of beneficiaries and pensioners would decrease in 2018. This cannot, of course, be the intention given current economic growth. For the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, a fair distribution of purchasing power between households was crucial. In addition to putting public finances in order and strengthening the sustainable economic structure, this was the third pillar of the former coalition agreement. In addition, the Demissionary Cabinet for 2018 has made additional funds available for nursing home care, safety and salaries in primary education. The 2018 Millions Note is in line with this. In this sense, I could be brief today, if it were not for the new coalition agreement to differ considerably from the previous one on a number of points, under pressure from the three main points mentioned in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. I'll walk by them. Public finances are in order at macro level. The task of the new cabinet is thus to keep it that way. It is striking that the positive budget balance is falling in the coming years, while it is expected that the government will manage itself in times of high economic growth. And what about now, we ask the Minister, with the sustainability deficit, as Mr De Grave pointed out? This indicates whether the government can still pay the same provisions in 2060, for example for education, social security and care. In recent years, the Rutte/Asscher cabinet has turned this deficit into a surplus, in particular through interventions in the AOW age and through the healthcare agreement. Is it true, as we ask the Minister, that the sustainability deficit has recently deteriorated again? And, if so, what measures will he take not to allow this to happen, in order to ensure that the welfare state will also be there for future generations? How's the stewardship going with this new finance minister? With regard to strengthening the sustainable economic structure, the coalition agreement offers a number of important intentions. What is missing, however, is a reflection on globalisation, particularly on international capital. For too long, globalisation has been seen as inevitable, especially for an open economy like ours. But we can still be a trading nation, even if we are committed to transparent, fair and sustainable commercial practices. We can fully attract investors, even if we keep out the vultures that cut up and empty our businesses. The country can be governed without the help of multinationals that have so actively engaged in cabinet negotiations. And also restricting cryptocurrency will not affect a decent citizen. How does the government view these outbursts of globalisation? Does she consider them inevitable or does she attack them? Mr. Chairman. In a sustainable economic structure, people must be at the centre, not money, the market or capital. For example, wages have been lagging behind the rise in labour productivity for years. Mr Van Apeldoorn pointed that out. This is attributed by the CBS to the increasing number of flex workers and self-employed workers. That is indeed an unacceptable development. But also for workers with fixed contracts, pay on labour has fallen far short of the pay on capital. How does the government view this worrying development? Does it agree that capital should be at the service of labour and therefore of people, and not the other way around? What measures is the government going to take to ensure that work pays better than wealth? In a sustainable economy in which not financial capital, but human beings are central, different choices are made than the new cabinet makes in the government agreement. I am not talking so much about the words, but about the actions and the corresponding budgets. After all, we are talking about financial considerations. I believe that most of the groups in this House agree that education is one of the most crucial factors for a sustainable economy, an attractive locational environment and a society in which everyone participates. Education took a prominent place in many electoral programmes, including related expenditure. It is therefore downright disappointing what has become of this in the coalition agreement. Last week, the Prime Minister spoke of an increase of 1.6 billion, but he was not talking about education, but about the entire OCW budget, including scientific research, social service, culture, heritage and many other posts. No additional funds will be made available for the education itself, except for the amounts already mentioned for primary schools and for technical training courses in VMBO. Worse still, education receives a reduction of structural 183 million. That is the world upside down: billions of people promise in election programmes, negotiate and come out with a discount for the sector. Last week in this House, the chairman of the D66 group said that reductions in education in order to promote efficiency, while at the same time investing in education, is not a necessary measure for his group, but a stain that the negotiators forgot to clean away. Can we, for example, ask my fellow Members here in the Chamber, call on the government today to do away with this ugly discount? And will we suggest to the Minister that this rising discount be undone from 2019? That gives the Minister another year, also to see whether it will come to this end with the other dossier that almost all the groups in this House are in the throes of: abolishing the dividend tax on behalf of foreign investors. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet seems to want to make a completely different choice than that of a sustainable economy in which people are at the centre, primarily a choice for multinationals. It would not be my party's choice, but if you are committed to this, do it well: effective, effective, feasible. It is not for nothing that these are important criteria for this Chamber to which we assess the quality of policy and legislation. However, the proposed abolition of the dividend tax does not meet this requirement in any way. A lot of research has been done into location factors. I do not know of any who would call the dividend tax an important factor. The Centraal Planbureau repeatedly shows no positive effect for the Netherlands as a country of residence. And the top team of head offices, a think tank of the Minister of Finance's own top officials, advises in his report with headquarters to the top even explicitly to refrain from removing them. I quote from their opinion: "The abolition involves a large budget package which must be covered by measures which are mainly domestic enterprises. That's not wise. Specific measures are often at the expense of the general fiscal environment. Therefore, as a Chamber, we do not have to ask too far to remove this unbearable proposal. I also noticed in the debate with my fellow Members from D66 that this measure is already being looked at, whether or not within the envelope of the business community. I can imagine that the VAT proposals that are so damaging to SMEs will be included, as has been reported to us from the sector. We therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to reconsider this gift for foreign investors and foreign governments and to invest the resources involved not in foreign financial capital but in Dutch human capital. Mr President, I come to my final point. The third pillar of the Rutte/Asscher cabinet also requires continued maintenance by the new cabinet. This is not only reflected in purchasing power. The debate on the VAT increase is a good example of this. The Prime Minister dismissed the objections by stating that, in the end, everyone or almost everyone, he corrected a little afterward, he would improve on them. But that is not at all the contradiction that we are calling for attention to be given to. Our first concern is that because of the rising prices of fruit, medicines or books, people will make different choices and these products will decrease less. Is it too much to ask to get those behavioral effects mapped out? And yes, that is allowed from an integral point of view, as we have just discussed. Our second concern concerns the effects of the VAT increase on the competitive position of independent retailers, particularly in border regions of the EU, but also in shrinking areas. They often coincide, but not always. An extra test on this can make it clear how serious this problem is now. I refer once again to the motion tabled by my group chairman on this matter last week. Such a study is appropriate to the many calls we have received from small and medium-sized enterprises: from florists to recreational companies, but also, and very penetratingly, from SMEs in the Netherlands. We would like a response from the Minister to this request. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I'm gonna take a look at the clock. I see that Mrs Sent would need ten minutes if there were no interruptions, but I am afraid to take that risk entirely. What am I gonna do? What am I gonna do? I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-3.u135	I have two more announcements to make. The meeting of the SZW committee has been brought forward to the start of the lunch break. The meeting will take place in Committee Room 2. Incoming is another notice of member Gerkens being prevented from attending because of personal circumstances.
