ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on coercive measures and the use of police forces in the ggz. A warm word of welcome to both ministers. We have five speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Like everyone else, she has three minutes' speaking time. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr President. People with mental problems are vulnerable. They need care in the first place. If they are a danger to themselves or their environment, then intervention must be proportionate and effective, but always taking into account their condition. Recently, a poignant story came out in which a psychiatric patient was tased in a separate cell by the police. The images were shocking. What concerns me is that the Minister writes that the use of measures and means of violence is to the police. I have two questions about that. First of all, does the police have enough knowledge of the ggz? Have the police officers who intervene in crisis situations in the GGZ been trained to do so? Secondly, do these ministers ever consider the use of tasers necessary and proportionate in the ggz? Would the cabinet also like the use of tasers in the ggz to be checked against international conventions, including Article 3 of the ECHR? Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks opposes the use of tasers in the ggz. These are vulnerable people whose use of a power surge weapon goes far too far. Human rights organisation Amnesty agrees that tasers should not be used in the ggz. Even the producer of the taser advises against using it in people with mental problems, because the effects have only been investigated on healthy people. In addition, the use of tasers by the police is still in a pilot phase. It is being tested whether the use is a good idea at all, let alone with this vulnerable group of people. So certainly in a pilot period, we're not going to test tasers on psychiatric patients, are we? I would like to hear from the Minister of Health whether she also thinks that psychiatric patients are not guinea pigs and ask the Cabinet to stop the use of tasers in psychiatric institutions immediately. Finally, the use of these coercive measures raises a broader question. Do we have sufficient insight into the use of coercive measures in the ggz, particularly in cases where the police are involved? In July 2016, the Chamber received a letter from ggz directors and professors expressing their concerns about the sharp increase in coercive measures and their lack of monitoring. Looks like that signal wasn't picked up. Does the Minister for Health agree with GroenLinks that good analysis of the use of coercive measures and their increase is important, and that we need proper registration to give an insight into the reasons for coercive measures and regional differences? I'd like a response to that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you. Then Mrs. Diertens of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The feeling of not being treated as human was worse than the pain. That's how the patient described being tased by cops in a separate cell. We are very shocked by the images and the article. I wish the patient and his family a good recovery. We hope that our questions will be answered tonight. The statement of the Parnassia Group clarifies some things, but at the same time raises questions. Have all the procedures been followed and the conditions met before the police were called? In addition, I wonder where the patient's responsible treatment was during the incident. What exactly was his role? Mr. Chairman. Co-operation between police and ggz is getting better and better. Nevertheless, the report Evaluation National Covenant Police GGZ showed that there are also improvement points. In this case we see some of these points coming back, for example the structural exchange of knowledge and experience. Has this exchange improved significantly in the meantime? The systematic information of the family when the police intervene in an acute situation should also be improved. That too went quite wrong here. Why did this happen? Why haven't they been informed? And how is this improved? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then use the taser itself. D66 has always been very critical of this. The police say the taser leads to dosed violence, maximum effect with minimal injury. But does that apply to vulnerable ggz patients who are susceptible to trauma? Does the use of the taser really lead to minimal injury in this case? My group has serious doubts about this. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I wonder if there is sufficient attention at the police academy to the use of tasers on confused persons. After all, we are still in a pilot phase. Are cops able to make a good assessment? And do they take with them the mental state of the patients? Is it even desirable to use tasers on vulnerable and confused people during a pilot phase? And has this been applied to people in crisis before? I'd like a response. Finally. The taser will end next year and will be evaluated. Can the Minister promise that this evaluation will address in detail the use of the taser on confused people so far? And can the Minister promise that the taser will not be used for the time being in such circumstances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u5	Thank you. Mr El Yassini has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have a question for Mrs. Diertens. She talked a few times about vulnerable people. People with mental problems are indeed vulnerable. Mrs Diertens herself worked in a ggz institution. Can she confirm that vulnerability and weakness are two different things? And that someone weighing 120 kilos might be mentally vulnerable, but physically so strong that there could be a life-threatening situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u7	That is also why I am asking this broadening question about the precise circumstances in this case. I understand your point. Sometimes the protection of other people in the environment is also important. But separation cells are also something of the past; they are no longer there either. Psychiatry has found other ways of helping and respecting human dignity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u8	I have a brief follow-up question. I think that's true, for example when you look at the HICs, the High & Intensive Care units. The separate cell doesn't actually exist anymore; that's an extra secure room nowadays, an EBK. Within the ggz it is said: a good EBK is an empty EBK. But can you confirm that there may also be situations in which it has escalated so badly that there is a life-threatening situation in which intervention is required and that it is often about human lives?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u9	Yes, of course there are those situations. But the question is, do you have to fill it out with a taser weapon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u10	Taser producers themselves indicate that their product has not been tested on people with psychiatric illness, so to speak. Can Mrs. Diertens respond to that? What does she think of the use of tasers if they are not actually intended for this group of vulnerable people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u11	That's what I asked in my story. To what extent is there experience with previous situations? Is this a single case or has tasers been used on people in a crisis situation before? And if so, what are the experiences? That is why I am asking for its use to be included in the study so far, so that it is very clear in the evaluation, and to stop using the taser now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u12	So, if I understand correctly, does Mrs Diertens agree with me and also with organisations such as Amnesty and the Human Rights College that this taser should not be used on people with mental illness?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u13	I think that, in the first instance, without it being refuted, is our approach and that we are not in favour of it. We have said before that we are not so good for taser use at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u14	Could Mrs. Diertens perhaps distinguish between confused people in a mental institution and confused people in the street? 'Cause how do you know on the street if someone's confused?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u15	In this situation, I am talking in particular about confused people within the institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Kooiman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate is perhaps two-fold. At first we unfortunately had the incident with a taser on a psychiatric patient in solitary, and last Friday there was the incident with a 13-year-old boy who was confused, whose police might not be able to estimate the age and who was also tased. Two letters have arrived with the MPs, from Amnesty International and from Defence for Childeren. Both letters deal with these two cases. Both organisations have a number of doubts about this and ask for enlightening answers. They are mainly questions to the Minister of Security and Justice. The SP is quite critical of the taser's use. We are not against the taser, but we are critical of it. Is a new weapon even necessary for the police? We were wondering because there are a lot of possibilities within the police, but in particular we were wondering because the police were already very busy just following basic training. The IBT trainings didn't always follow the police closely. It was hard because there was a very big workload with the police. I myself have been a spokesperson for five years, and I myself have been allowed to do an IBT training, the integral professional skills training. I have to say, that's very intense. There is specific practice on entering, for example, a solitary cell. Then you go in with shields. I've been on both sides: on the side of the police, but I've also played patient. I must tell you that both can be very frightening situations. I also questioned the ggz settings. They have also sent two burn letters stating that it is quite busy, that they are dealing with withdrawal stops and that the clients they have inside have become much heavier. Shouldn't we be looking at that? Then I'll look at the Secretary of State at VWS. You also have to look at what is cause and effect. Why does the police have to come in eventually? Why does it happen so often, and why is it more and more often? Cops say they have to go to that ggz setting all the time. And the ggz institution itself indicates that it is getting increasingly complex cases. Mr. Chairman. We had a debate with the US Secretary of State a few weeks ago. We have talked about the almost 300 million that lies on the shelf with the health insurance companies and is not being used in the ggz. But in the ggz there is a huge workload. Prevention is better than cure. We must ensure that patients do not need to be isolated and receive adequate treatment. I think we should bet on that. I would like a response from this Minister. How is it going to prevent the workload from rising and how is it going to ensure that the 300 million is used to care for patients? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. Then Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. I know how aggressive people with psychiatric illness can be. In the opinion of the CDA Group, a ggz institution should be able to deal with this in principle. The medical staff will have to be in sufficient order in quantity and quality to cope with these very serious cases. That therefore requires sufficient staff to cope with an emergency situation. Police deployment must be an exception. Can the Minister, I think that of VWS, indicate how often police assistance is requested and whether this clearly differs from one institution to another? Why does one institution rarely or never need police assistance and the other institution much more often? What minimum requirements does an institution have to meet in order to carry out the task itself? And what control does the Minister exercise in this regard? Mr. Chairman. There are national and regional protocols that regulate co-operation between police and ggz. The Minister's letter sets out how police assistance is regulated in the ggz institutions. But in the national covenant, there's actually nothing to read about it. This is mainly focused on the approach on the street and on the access to care. Is what is stated in the letter then in the regional protocols? Would it not be much better, especially now that we have a national police force, to be described in a national protocol in a uniform manner when the police provide assistance, who decides which means of violence is used, what is and what is not proportionate and what is the role of the doctor? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Finally, Mr President. There are currently three places in the country where there is a pilot with the taser, the stun gun. The CDA supports these pilots, although we are less sure about the taser in advance than about the bodycam and the extendable baton. But it's okay, it's fine that there are pilots running. Would the Minister of Security and Justice not exercise wisdom if he did not allow the use of the taser within the walls of a ggz institution during the duration of the pilots? Sometimes the superior is the enemy of the good. It is fine that the police can use this medicine outside the walls of a ggz institution and that it is tested with it, but we can expect that within the walls of such an institution patients, however aggressive, can be neutralized by other means. Let us first look at the usefulness and necessity of the taser on the street before we use the taser in this precarious situation within an institution. A power surge weapon in psychiatry isn't an image we need to put together. I'd like a response from the Minister to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u20	That was your term, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u22	Very good. There is another question from Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u23	I have a question to ask you about your story, but also about what I have just heard from Mrs Diertens. You indicate that it is still unknown what the use of a pulse weapon for ggz patients means, that there are no studies yet. Let's just use this pilot to look at what we can currently investigate, based on scientific research and facts, and then draw a conclusion in the evaluation. Don't you think it's premature to ask the Minister to take the ggz out of the pilot? Aren't you early on?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u24	You know, it's not just a question of whether or not we should put in a taser at what time. It is also a different question. Let me use a different perspective: after a lot of attempts to arrange it yourself, you finally have to transfer your family member to a ggz setting. You come at the moment you say: we can't do it anymore, we have to give it out of our hands and we now rely on the institution. Then what picture do you have of the institution, the regime you're giving it to? Does that fit in with the idea of giving it out of your hands, in public confidence, to an institution where your son, your cousin, your father or your mother is being treated with a stun gun? Then the CDA group says: that is a bridge too far. We have been in the Netherlands for hundreds of years and I am assuming that this is the case without a nuclear weapon. We think it is a very good idea that there are now pilots to do so, because we believe that this could be a very welcome addition between the stick and the service dog on the one hand and the firearm on the other. But it's just a bridge too far, partly given what we think people can expect if they have to give up their loved ones to such an institution, to include it in that pilot right now. I can imagine that, when the pilots have run and we know what is and what is not possible with the weapon and when there has been good consultation with the ggz, there will be a phase in which this will become a possibility. Although, so to speak, I prefer it to be a means in the hands of the ggz institution rather than in the hands of the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u25	On the personal story I will come back in my own contribution. Let me now turn to the situation you mention. If a person with mental problems in a ggz institution is a danger to himself, to his environment or to the ggz staff, and if we know that the shielding procedure does not work and the use of a police dog causes serious and permanent injury and damage, what should the police do? This is an example you should address as a former policeman. What should the police do when the safety of the patient, the staff or the police themselves is at stake? We're talking about a life-threatening situation. What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u26	In that situation, we need to keep our heads down and do what we've always done. We should not simply resort to a means if there are good reasons not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u27	But here we are talking about a life-threatening situation. I would like to emphasise that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u28	I think I've given my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u29	I find it a very difficult subject and I see that everyone is struggling with it. To my knowledge, the taser was created to use instead of the weapon. So that was not so much in place of the baton, the shield or the dog, but of the weapon. Then I find it a difficult consideration, because if the police have the choice to use a weapon or a taser, what do we choose? Can the CDA answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u30	I think that every policeman, by the means he chooses, should rely on the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. So he's going to have to take the least of the cures, and he's going to have to take the cure that still fits the situation. I wholeheartedly support the pilots. In particular, let's use the results to see where the taser is going to take inside the policeman's tools. So in advance it seems to me very logical that he is somewhere between the baton and the firearm.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u31	I was a spokesperson in the Lower House when this pilot ran. At that time I really heard a different consideration. When I had to support the request for this debate, Oldenkotte came up to me. That's actually a tbs setting, but it's covered by the ggz. Unfortunately, employees have been seriously abused there. Those are also situations where the police have to come. I think it's a very difficult consideration. I would like to hear that the CDA, which was as critical of the taser as the SP, does not want to impose that restriction, precisely to give the police an opportunity in situations where it is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u32	I fully share with you that this is a complicated subject, in which you have to make a choice at some point. I would just like to point out that we are not just looking at this from the point of view of the police file. There are good reasons to provide every cop on his way to a ggz setting with a taser; I can see that too. However, we are also specifically concerned with the idea that there should be a public health record in a ggz institution. I do not want to repeat that, because I think the President will say: you repeat yourself. And I don't want to repeat that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u33	We are going to listen to Mr El Yassini, but we are going to listen to him, not to the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u34	Okay, let's do that. Thank you, Mr President. Mr Van Dam just spoke of "personal." I myself have experienced how it feels when someone I care about very much ends up in a psychosis and then has to be recorded. You really want that person you love incredibly much to get good and safe care. But if the person is also a danger to himself or the environment during psychosis and use violence, then suddenly your world is turned upside down. You want proper intervention, especially in life-threatening situations. If, even after intervention by ggz personnel, the safety of the person with psychological problems and the personnel remains at risk, then the police must be able to be deployed. The reason for this debate is that a patient in the ggz institution Bavo Europoort in Capelle aan den IJssel has been tased in a what is traditionally called separate cell and is now called an extra secure room. The Health Inspectorate is still investigating the incident. The letter we received also showed that the inspection is waiting for the data from the ggz institution. With this debate, it is not wise to cycle right through this research. The Health Inspectorate is about to assess whether follow-up actions are necessary. We really think this debate is premature. Let's let the inspection do her job. Ggz staff should be able to work safely, but patients should also be able to rely on a safe environment. The VVD considers that coercive measures are generally necessary if the safety of the person in question, the staff or others is at risk. These are life-threatening situations. Then the option is either the power surge weapon or the gun. Police officers shall be trained and equipped to apply proportionate violence if necessary. They must be able to weigh up what means they use within that district and when it suits them best. In addition, we cannot take resources from the police, especially when they are engaged in a pilot. As far as the power surge weapon is concerned, there is indeed a pilot running at the moment. Research shows that there is a gap in the spectrum of violence between the baton and the gun. This hole is most experienced in getting control of people who are out of control and are a danger to themselves and others. So also during a psychosis where, for example, staff in a ggz institution is at risk. At the end of the pilot period, the pilot will be evaluated by scientists under the direction of the Police Academy. According to the letter from the Minister of Security and Justice, we can expect this evaluation report in the course of 2018. So we must now be cautious in the debate and make a step in the right direction. Let us evaluate the pilot during the evaluation moment on the basis of scientific facts and conclusions and not on the basis of an incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u35	I'm suspending until 7:15, and then we're gonna listen to the two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u36	I note that the next debate must begin at 7:40 p.m., so I hope we can make it in a little less than half an hour. I call the US Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr President, I am going to do my best. A few years ago I visited the crisis service in Rotterdam. That was a day after the personnel were held hostage and the police should have disarmed the staff. It was clearly visible what huge impact that had on the staff. Those were experienced professionals, not for a little one. You saw and felt that it was still nadreund on my visit. That also had a huge impact on me. I then started talking to several people about aggression and what can be done about it. I was there myself once when a patient freaked out. It's easy for us to talk about that, but it's gonna happen to you. The people I've spoken to work with sometimes very aggressive patients. That aggressiveness is just part of the disease. So you can't blame the patient, but it will. Those employees are sometimes bruised - and then we were lucky, I'll say. It is not for nothing that I started the program Safe working in healthcare. That has been a whole programme, in which we have dealt with all kinds of issues. First of all, we have said: always report it, because then you can see exactly what happened and you can analyse it with each other. In addition, we have trained aid workers to reduce aggression and violence, in all kinds of different trainings. In addition, 800 institutions have received financial support to set up an anti-aggression policy and we have organised regional meetings. We put real money in it. Part of the program was also that in 2012 there was a covenant between GGZ Nederland and the police. Of course, we must try to prevent it from tasing. We must do everything we can to de-escalate and prevent this from happening. But we're talking about situations where sometimes seven police officers don't control someone. In that situation there really is force majeure. And what do we do? I therefore think it is very important for the police to have the means at their disposal in such a situation to get out of this, not only the police themselves, but also the ggz staff and not to forget the patient, who at that time is often a danger not only to others but also to themselves. The point is that there has to be a way to get someone out of that aggression, so that medication can be given. That's what it's really about. If we send the police there empty-handed, what do we offer these people? What do we say to these policemen? The D.A. has actually assessed this case. The prosecution's opinion was that tasing was proportionate and necessary in this case and in accordance with the instruction of violence. The person had to be safely controlled, with the aim of giving him medication. That objective could not be achieved in a different, less radical way at that time. I agree with anyone who says tasing should be a last resort. You don't just do this. But if nothing works, what do you do? Then you should also think about your staff and the patient's safety. It is too easy to leave the people empty-handed, because then it really comes down to fighting. I've been there once myself; that's just really fighting. This puts the employees at risk. In other words, tasing really is a last resort. You must have tried everything, but sometimes there are no other means. Of course you can say the police don't belong in an institution. At your service, but what do you say to the employees? The police don't belong in a house, either, but if things go south in a house, doesn't the police get a call? In an institution, too, things can get out of hand. There are employees who don't dare go back to work and that's not for nothing. That's not because nothing happened. That's inherent to the patient's disease. That's why you can't blame the patient at all at the time. It is therefore not a question of guilt. It's about how you can manage this quickly, so you can actually treat a patient properly. Mrs Ellemeet asks whether I am in favour of proper analysis of coercive measures and their use and proper registration. Yeah, I agree. Institutions providing care under the BOPZ Act must report the start of coercive treatment, means or measures to the inspection. Those figures give an idea of the applied compulsion. Recently, the Eerste Kamer received these figures for the years 2010 to 2015 with the reply accompanying the legislative proposals for the Law mandatory ggz and the Law care and coercion psychogeriatric and intellectually handicapped clients. The inspection will also actively disclose these figures on its website. Once the figures for 2016 and 2017 are ready, because we are now talking about those until 2015, the IGZ will actually publish them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u38	I understood that the figures do not give an insight into the reasons for the use of coercive measures and that there is no understanding of the large regional differences either. In a previous registration system it was possible to find out and thus also a more detailed analysis of the deployment could be made. You want to avoid the use of coercive measures as far as possible. This can be done better by using the differences in the conversation: gee, why do you have so much less commitment? Those data are missing now. Does the Minister agree with me that it is desirable to add this to the registration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u39	When the inspection visits the ggz, coercive measures are always the subject of discussion. In this case, for example, the inspection is currently waiting for information from the institution. On this basis, it can then analyse whether there has been a proper action and what lessons can be drawn from it. I agree that it doesn't happen systematically in that registration, but it does happen as a result of things that happen. It is part of the conversation the IGZ has with the settings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u40	Do I hear the Minister say that she would like it to become part of that registration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u41	The ggz institutions are succumbing a little to the administrative burden. I would therefore consider it a very important aspect to look at what it would mean. I would like to discuss this first in a consultation with the ggz. If that is what you want, I can promise you: how can we get a more structural and a broader view on how we do it with each other without adding another paper shop?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u42	Okay, the Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mr. Chairman. Psychiatric patients are not guinea pigs; I totally agree with that. But it is true that people who are psychiatricly ill can unfortunately also lose control of themselves and can be incredibly aggressive. For these patients, too, you need to see how to act best. Anything you can do with less, you have to do with less. Don't escalate immediately. You need to stay as low as possible in the escalator ladder. It must be the most effective and least burdensome way of acting. I would not like to exclude resources. I'm not a taser expert, but I also think it's important that this pilot is done, to see if tasing is a less burdensome way because it weakens muscles as it were. That's what's attributed to it. Let me put it this way: I have personally been to some more incriminating situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u44	The Taser producer states himself: we didn't test this instrument, this weapon for people with mental illness, so it's not meant for that group. We're in a pilot now. Left in the middle whether you're for or against tasers: you should at least handle a new weapon very carefully and, so to speak, follow the manufacturer's own manual. The producer itself therefore indicates that tasers have not been tested on this group of vulnerable people. Does the Minister not agree with me that it is very undesirable to use it in a pilot on them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u45	But if the alternative is far more radical, then I find... it's not for nothing a pilot. It's monitored and so you're there. You don't know what kind of diseases people have on the street either. You can apply it to someone who might have epilepsy or other ailments you don't know. It's just about very aggressive people and then I think it's quite something to say: between the baton and actual gun use is almost nothing. What are you gonna do in between? Just because it's a pilot, I think it's a missed opportunity to say you can't use it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u46	I think it's a big deal that you're using such a radical weapon on people whose producers themselves say they haven't been tested for it. Isn't it starting with the fact that, as a government, we only use resources that we're sure we're using on target groups that they've been tested for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u47	I don't think you should just use this. I also think it should be reserved for emergencies. And I also think you should study it carefully in the pilot. That's why you're doing a pilot. But to say that you don't use it at all... If there are really few alternatives for aid workers and the police or if the alternative is much more radical, then at some point you have to ask yourself what is least profound. Saying you're not gonna use it at all is too much for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u48	Let me get this straight. You have read the report on the deployment of this incident. Could you indicate which means might have been used or what kind of violent instruction the police should have followed if the taser had not been used or had not been deployed by the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u49	I'm not gonna talk about this individual case. I did read it, and then you have to be very careful not to accidentally say anything. What I understood from that case is that I can imagine why the D.A. considered it proportionate and necessary. I can imagine that, but that's different than maybe you should check from the IGZ to see if it went well. That's what's going on, and I can't say anything about it right now. So I think you should also look from the care side at how things have been done here. I was asked, for example, if the handler was there. I don't know. I don't know if it was there, because it's not always there. He sometimes sleeps. So I can't say that here either. I imagine you'd include something about that in a protocol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u50	Can the Minister feel that this is a very difficult discussion and a very difficult one? If the choice is a weapon or a taser, I can imagine you'd rather choose a taser. If you have to dive on top of someone with five men with the danger that someone might suffocate, then you might rather choose a taser because you can do it with less violence. I do not know that and it is therefore a difficult consideration. We are all going to have a motion under our noses and then it is necessary for me to know whether a taser can always be worse in a ggz setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u51	But the D.A. did make a judgment on this. The D.A. said it was necessary and proportionate, so it's not like we don't know anything at all. I do think that judgment of the D.A.'s is important. Have the procedures been followed? Is the conditions fulfilled? Was the handler present and what was his role? I cannot tell you this because it does not matter in this individual case for this debate and b because the inspection investigates this well, should it see reason for it. But he's just waiting for the information she needs from the institution. There are no national agreements in case the police are asked for assistance within a ggz institution. These agreements are laid down in regional agreements and protocols between the police and the institution. The assessment of whether the use of the police is necessary takes place on the basis of various factors, including the degree of violence, the patient's accountability, the threat to other patients or staff and the possibility of de-escalation by the staff present. There is therefore a protocol, a national agreement between police and ggz, but how you act within a ggz institution differs regionally and sometimes at institutional level. It is, of course, a matter of what kind of institution it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u52	I don't know if the minister responds by input. At least I had this point, the national protocol. You know, when I'm listening to this, I feel like we're getting a little messed up. Again, that's not a good word, and I don't mean anything wrong with it. But it is quite something that a taser is being used in the ggz; the minister should also notice that. I don't think anyone at the start of that pilot figured this was part of it. At least my group did not come up with that. In fact, I can very much follow the arguments you have put forward. I too find it terrible when people in care have to fight for their lives; we all do not want that. But would the Minister also like to mention the other aspect, namely how you look at the care and how your loved one is treated there? Would she also like to include this in the question of whether this is foreseen in these pilots? Or do we get it for free?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u53	If you can solve anything without violence, you have to do it without violence. That's my opinion. If you can do something in care in a way where patients feel familiar, there is peace in the institution and you can make contact with your patient, you have to do so. Unfortunately, however, we can see that in certain diseases, aggression can increase enormously. That's what you see when you're on a crisis shift and you're there when someone has a psychosis and then totally, totally, totally unaware of what they're doing. Someone like that can be incredibly strong. I happened to be there when it was a young strong man; N=1. It's really different when you're standing there. If you can do without it, you have to do without it, but I think so anyway. The only thing is this: we can say that there can't be anything, but what do we actually say to the aid workers? The aid workers should be able to deal with it as well. I believe that we should support the aid workers in this respect. If the D.A. considers anything necessary and proportionate, it puts weight on the scale. So you're gonna have to check that out. I also think it's important that you do that from the care side. You have to do it carefully, but it's really going too far for me to say in advance that you shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u54	I almost owe it to my history to find the prosecution's judgment very important. But that judgment is, above all, a legal judgment based on the instruction of violence. What I am trying to emphasise is that there is also a social element: how do we look at the care, at the ggz institution? If the Minister had come up with a proposal and had said: boys, the problem in the care is so great; we think that we can play a role in this with a power surge weapon, and we take it as a separate matter. In that case, I can imagine that my group, after careful consideration and looking at everything, would have said: we should do a pilot with that. But the point now is that a pilot has been launched by the police and that this will be added for free. There are completely different aspects to what is involved in a violent force on the streets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u55	First of all, on the street, you don't know where aggression comes from either. There people are totally aggressive from the dope and the alcohol. They don't know what they're doing and pain impulses aren't felt directly. As a policeman, you often face the dilemma of using a weapon at some point. So the taser came into that arsenal for a reason. That's actually what happened from the idea that it's less heavy. That doesn't mean you just have to apply it; it's a pilot for a reason. If you're gonna do a pilot, you're gonna have to take a good look at what's going on in that pilot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u56	I can imagine that situation and I am also glad that further research is being carried out within the ggz itself. I find it difficult, however, that in the pilot phase in the protected environment in which the patient is included, there is work with a device that has not actually been completely crystallized. A patient may also have other ailments, ailments where such taser use may be very disastrous. I find it difficult to use a taser within such a protective environment in the pilot phase. What does the Minister think if the person dealing with this question could not have answered it? For example, if you have a pacemaker, a taser isn't great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u57	That's why I think it's okay that it doesn't just happen without a pilot. You need to take a good look at what's happening and whether that's justified, whether we think it's spring-responding. It's a good thing that if there are situations, you might submit them to an Attorney General or to the inspection a little faster than you would otherwise do. But saying "we don't do it at all in advance," while there are real problems in the ggz that we don't know very well and situations there too often, in my opinion, get out of hand, I would really find a loss. This is not least for the patient himself, because it is much lower in what you do to a patient than a lot of other means you use differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u58	Clear. The next debate is due to begin in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr. Chairman. Is there a need for a national protocol for the use of police in the ggz, with clear agreements, which also discuss the role of the doctor? There are already nationwide agreements in the cops' covenant with the ggz. There are clear national agreements to combat aggression against aid workers with a public task. These agreements provide sufficient frameworks and are implemented at regional level. Agreements may vary by region and, as I said, by institution. Then the nationwide covenant and the points of improvement. Has the exchange of knowledge improved? Why wasn't the family informed? How will that be improved? I do not go into the individual case, but there is a much stronger position for the family, also legally, in the law mandatory ggz. Unfortunately, this is only scheduled for January in the First Chamber, but that law really regulates a huge improvement in the position of the family. Then prevent high workload, and police and ggz. What are we doing about the workload? In the Safe Working Action Plan, attention was focused not only on workload, but also on the specific situation you face, sometimes in a ggz setting, but sometimes in other institutions, and how to deal with it. Nevertheless, despite the fact that the professionals are well trained, situations may arise that actually go too far for aid workers. These are situations that aid workers just don't have the solution for. I fully agree that where extra care is to be bought, money should not remain on the shelf. Nevertheless, there will still be situations where you say: the aid workers cannot handle this alone. We must always work to keep it as limited as possible. Then there is the issue of minimum staff requirements, so that the police are not needed. That is exactly the plan and the commitment we have made in recent years. There has been a lot of investment in reducing compulsion and urge and training staff. But sometimes those resources are exhausted. The use of force is really reserved for the police. They don't and they can't. Mrs Ellemeet asked if the registration could not be made more detailed and better. I told you I'd record that, but on the basis of the mandatory ggz Act, a basis for such a registration is also created. An extra encouragement to deal with that law quickly, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u60	I call the Minister for Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u61	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, all Members of Parliament have indicated that they are fully aware of what a terrible struggle must go through the agents who face the choice of using force, especially in a psychiatric facility. Mrs Kooiman sketched images that she herself had stood on both sides of a training course and that it is actually horrific for both sides. Agents in the Netherlands are extremely reluctant to use force. They will always try to prevent violence from being used, first with persuasion and with the creation of a de-escalating atmosphere. At the same time, on our behalf, they must apply the monopoly of violence if there is no other way. Unfortunately, these situations occur, both inside and outside ggz settings. Examples of this were also mentioned by Members of Parliament. Unfortunately, violence is also being used, also very violently, against the staff of ggz institutions. Then it is also up to the government to ensure that the staff are protected, preferably without violence, but we can of course say that it will always be without violence. In his confusion with a knife, with a chair or with whatever is available, someone can be life-threatening to himself, to the employees of the ggz institutions for other patients. So as much as we would all like to say that violence should never be used in a ggz institution, we would attack reality if we said that. It has already been widely observed in the Chamber that it would be of great added value if there were an instrument in that spectrum of violence which is less drastic and threatening than the gun, of course the most threatening and dangerous instrument, but can be used effectively in this kind of terrible situation. That's why the experiment started with the power surge weapon, as we call it, because taser is a brand name. In the end, this is a weapon that enables you to disable people in serious cases of this kind, without literally acting as bloody and always dangerous as when using the gun, so that they are no longer dangerous, but are not seriously injured. Against this background, I will answer the questions of the various Members of Parliament. Ms Ellemeet asked whether the use and evaluation of the power surge weapon would be carried out within the ECHR and other international conventions. That is clearly the case, because these treaties instruct us as a government to use violence as carefully as possible and only to do so proportionately. With the introduction of the power surge weapon, we have a new proportional instrument, if we agree on a further commitment at the end of the experiments. It is therefore very much in line with the mandate given by international treaties to governments to apply violence if, unfortunately, this is necessary. Mrs Ellemeet also asked if police officers were trained to deal with ggz patients. Policemen are trained to act in very difficult circumstances, often dealing with people who are seriously confused or under the influence of resources, and then assessing how they can create a safe situation there. That doesn't make them ggz nurse or ggz doctor. That is why the agreements on cooperation between these two disciplines are laid down in the national covenant that you have just discussed with Mr Schippers and that is the basis for further elaboration by individual institution. But our agents are highly trained to deal in very complicated situations with people who, for whatever reason, no longer operate rationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u62	I have another question about the Minister's point that the use of the power-bulb weapon is also subject to international treaties. Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights deals with coercive measures which would lead to degrading treatment. If a ggz patient is tied up and locked in a separate treatment room and then a taser is used, wouldn't that be such a situation? The Minister says that the international treaties are indeed being reviewed. But is it precisely this casuism, the use of power surge weapons in ggz patients, that has been tested against that international treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u63	Here too, international conventions require the most cautious and proportionate use of force. "Demeaning" seems to me to be a way too modest a description of what happens when the gun is used. Of course, it's dramatic when someone gets a shot in the body, even if it's not lethal, whether you're a ggz patient or not. In this situation, too, it is of added value to use a less radical instrument within the instructions for violence that are used for this purpose, but this is specifically assessed in each effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u64	The minister says it's being explicitly reviewed. Do I understand correctly that any case where a power surge weapon is used in a ggz institution is subject to that international treaty? Is that an active review or is it an interpretation by the Minister of the rules in that treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u65	Each use of the power surge weapon will be tested during this experiment and will thus be the basis of the evaluation. We're talking about a specific case right now. With Mr Schippers I do not feel free to go into the details. We have informed the Chamber that the district attorney has been watching this. A prosecutor is a member of our highly acclaimed judiciary and, of course, reviews laws and treaties. Mrs. Diertens asked if the taser results in minimal injury to vulnerable people. The same balancing framework I have just indicated, preferably no violence at all, but if it then has to be the lightest possible form of violence, leads to the answer: yes, this leads to the least possible injury. Mrs. Diertens also asked if agents could make a good assessment of a person's mental state of health. I have already indicated to Mrs Ellemeet that a large part of the training is aimed at dealing with seriously confused people. This is still a different expertise from that of ggz employees; hence the cooperation agreements. Mrs Diertens asked whether the evaluation included the use in confused persons. Any use of the surge weapon during this evaluation period shall be taken into account in the evaluation, wherever it has taken place. Mrs Diertens asked whether it was desirable to use the instrument on vulnerable people. Mrs Diertens will not have meant it this way, but it is, of course, never desirable. Violence is horrible, but unfortunately it is necessary. The question the other way around is whether it would be wise to rule it out. I shall now turn to Mr Van Dam's explicit question. I would find that very unwise. Again, the instrument is intended to prevent the service weapon from being deployed. We are conducting an experiment to test very critically whether the instrument adds what we want, or in a responsible way, and what that teaches us for future commitment. No one has yet definitively said yes to the use of the power surge weapon, but without such an experiment, we can never judge how and under what circumstances that can take place. I think Mrs Kooiman's questions have already been answered by Mrs Schippers. Finally, I come to Mr Van Dam. He asked if we could indicate how often the police are deployed in ggz institutions. There is no separate registration. We do know that it often happens, that unfortunately this is often inevitable because of the specific problem of the target group. Mr Van Dam asked if I would be prepared to end the deployment in ggz settings during the pilot. I have just said to Mrs Diertens that for two reasons I would find that really unwise. It would mean that in ggz institutions in the experimental areas there would no longer be that less heavy instrument available compared to the service weapon. It would also mean that we do not get an answer to the question that has often been asked here: what are the experiences and how can we learn from them? If you stop an experiment, you actually say you'll never get the answer again. For both reasons, therefore, I would find that unwise. Mr Van Dam asked about the agreements in the covenant, but I think those questions have already been answered by Mrs Schippers. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u66	That's highly appreciated. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. That is certainly the case. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the national police are currently carrying out a pilot with power surge weapons in three units;]] [[Whereas trust in safe and protective care within a ggz institution is a major public interest;]] [[Whereas the use of the power surge weapon within ggz institutions does not contribute to that confidence;]] [[calls on the government during the pilot not to allow the use of the power surge weapon by the national police in ggz institutions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van Dam and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-735]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a pilot with the power surge weapon;]] [[noting that confused people and people in a ggz institution are susceptible to psychological trauma;]] [[Whereas the use of a pulse weapon on a confused person may lead to psychological trauma;]] [[Considers that insufficient research has been carried out into the use of the power surge weapon on confused people;]] [[calls on the Government to address in detail in the pilot's evaluation report the use of the stun gun on confused persons and the risks associated with it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Diertens and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-736]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u69	It is widely used, so do not apply to confused persons. How can a police officer on the street see whether or not someone is confused or has a psychiatric disorder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u70	No, this is mainly about using the power surge weapon inside the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u71	Then there are also employees who depend on the use of the police. And what's worse, the service weapon or a power surge weapon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u72	I do not think it can be said in those three pilots at the moment that this is a solution to use within psychiatry. I just think that the pilot should first be awaited and what the expectations are. In that part it also happens on people just on the street. If you have the evaluation of that pilot, you can always see if you can apply it to people who are vulnerable or within a psychiatric domain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u73	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mrs Kooiman from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u74	Mr. Chairman. This debate focused on the use or non-use of power surge weapons in the ggz. This is a very difficult discussion, because can you possibly prevent more serious use of force by means of a power surge weapon? The answer of these leaders is actually: yes, that could be done, and we would like to continue to evaluate it. I follow that, but what I regret about this whole discussion is that we are not talking about the whole element of its prevention. How can we ensure, for example, that the workload in the ggz is reduced? How can we ensure that there are enough people in the department to prevent people from eventually freaking out, freaking out, or that police deployment is necessary? We have 300 million on the shelf with the insurers, and it is not being used. So today I appeal once again to the US Secretary of State. It may be her last debate. You can still make it up to me, Minister Schippers. You can still make me happy by using it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you. Then Mr Van Dam of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u76	Mr. Chairman. My second term may be most like an explanation of vote. I would like to thank both ministers for their presence and their answers. The arguments they have mentioned, I understand. They all relate to the safety, safety and security of people in institutions and also to the safety of policemen. But in the opinion of my group, there are other aspects to this discussion as well. I am sorry that this has been addressed to a lesser extent. As far as I am concerned, this has to do with how Dutch people can look at ggz and psychiatry, and with what confidence they can have in it. I think it's going too far to use overnight the power surge weapon in psychiatry. I can very well imagine that we will say yes to this when we come up with a thorough story, but at the moment we do not approve of it. That is why I support Mrs Ellemeet's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you. Mr El Yassini waived his term. Then we listen to the Minister for Security and Justice, who is going to comment on the motions and answer the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 735 by Mrs Ellemeet, Mr Van Dam and Mrs Diertens, during the pilot, the government asked the national police not to allow the use of electric weapons in ggz institutions. I really must advise against this motion for the reasons that have been discussed in detail in the debate. This means that we do not have the lighter alternative to the service weapon that we want with the experiment. The evaluation will also be incomplete. The motion in part No. 736 is related to that in part No. 735. It invites the government to address in detail in the pilot's evaluation report the use of the stun gun on confused persons and the risks associated with it. I would be happy to carry out this motion, but the motion in part No. 735 contradicts that. Because if the motion in part no. 735 asks to stop the bet in ggz settings, then I can with the motion in part no. 736 don't do so much anymore. The judgment on the motion in part No. 736 I'd like to leave to the Chamber. I would like to offer the Chamber a brief description of the experiences so far in the Netherlands, inside and outside the ggz, and what the international experiences are, because the power surge weapon is used in many more countries. I would actually like to ask the Chamber for the motion in part No. Then I'll make sure that letter arrives soon. If you do not find sufficient indications in that letter, then you know for yourself what you have to do, but it seems to me as unfortunate as we do with the motion in part No. It is not possible to make 736 impossible by too soon until the motion in part No. 735 to pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u79	That is a request to the author of the first motion, Mrs Ellemeet. She's the first signatory. Will you answer that, Mrs Ellemeet? She's having a little talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u80	Can the Minister tell us when the letter will be available?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u81	You can have it in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u82	Okay, then we'll hold the motion for two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u83	Then I'll make sure that letter is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u84	At the request of Mrs Ellemeet, I propose her motion (29628, 25424, nr. 735). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u85	On the motion in part No. 736 the Minister made a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u86	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u87	Mrs Diertens, brief, pointy and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u88	Perhaps as an addition: there is already, of course, an evaluation study in progress for which data are available. The intention of the motion was to take the data from the use so far. If the motion in part No. 735 would be taken into account, but the entire evaluation process for the ggz would not be completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u89	Okay, but I've already indicated that I will send the experience to the Chamber in two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you. Is the VWS minister gonna say anything? No, she's just packing her bag. I would like to thank the ministers of the United States and of Security and Justice for their presence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-04-tweedekamer-9.u91	I'm suspending for a moment. Then we move on to the VAO Agriculture and Fisheries Council.
