ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the people in the public gallery, including from education; very good that you are here. I would also like to welcome the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. I call the first speaker, Mr Kwint, on behalf of the SP. There is a four-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, a warm word of welcome to all those masters and girls sitting here in the stands or listening in three other halls. A sincere word of apology to the few teachers who unfortunately couldn't get into the Chamberhouse anymore. They have assured me that they are watching their iPad on the Square, on the terrace. So I would like to welcome them too. Not that long ago, I was talking to a teacher who teaches at an elementary school. She had just returned from a burn-out and told me about her experiences, how difficult it was to get back on track, how far-reaching and how long such a process is and what that actually does to you, but also about how much she wanted to go back to her class, to her children. They are, after all, her children. Unfortunately, she's not the only one. Thick 20% of the teachers will ever face a burn-out. As far as we are concerned, this is a disgrace, resulting in great personal dramas. The people we entrust to be working with our young children all week long are so overwhelmed that they come home anxiously or, despite their love of work, go looking for something else, because they can't handle it anymore or because they can make more money elsewhere, much more money. The NOS study therefore did not surprise the SP. The solution is not simply to guide new teachers a little better. The problem is not a lack of experience. The problem is too much work. Teachers who have been in the class for 30 years also experience the increased workload, stress, the idea that the work should never be finished, the evening at home should continue to check tests, completing progress reports of children and preparing lessons. It's just too much. The combination of appropriate education, increased accountability and money for additional staff who hardly anyone knows where it has gone and what it has achieved is killing for a teacher: 20% leave primary education within five years; with side instromers this is as much as 23% in the first year. Our masters and teachers teach 150 hours more than the OECD average. Also in class size we are significantly above average. Then what is the reaction of this cabinet? Or schools can't look a little more critically at the rules they themselves come up with. There is no doubt, but as in the previous reaction to the Van Meenen/Ypma motion, which wanted to give teachers more space, the cabinet points to things that it itself can hardly do anything about: no extra teachers, no extra hands in the classroom, no critical look at its own rules, no extra salary, no smaller classes, but a task force for fewer rules. Don't get me wrong: in itself that's not a bad idea at all, but after five years of Rutte II this is a rather lean score. Meanwhile, the teacher pays the bill. Actually: the teacher can pay his bill less and less well, because there's quite a hole. As a teacher in groups 1 to 8 you earn no less than 30% less than another HBO-educated person. How do we think this is gonna end? The shortage of teachers is already growing. There's gotta be another way. We are not retarded, I think at least that I am not retarded, and we are aware that you are not solving this with a simple motion, especially at this time of political death, in which parties try behind closed doors to form a new coalition, but it is also unacceptable for the SP that politics should only stare at the Tower and stand with its back to the schoolyard. So what now? Our ideal image is an equal wage for equal work, smaller classes, less bureaucracy, more room for the teacher, but as said, we are not going to settle that at once. We would like to hear what the cabinet thinks of the first step we are proposing: make sure that you make one thing clear on the way to the new collective agreement negotiations, namely that the lowest salary scale in primary education does not do justice to the responsible work that these people do; it must get out. Education deserves better, literally. And let us finally demand clarity about what happens to educational money, not because we do not trust schools but because schools now sometimes have to fill one hole with another. Last week, the AD read that up to 1.5 billion more had gone to maintenance. That can only be at the expense of these teachers. Earlier, there had already disappeared 0.5 billion for teachers and the 50 million of whom no one can tell how many janitors and class assistants have been hired for that. As long as money for teachers disappears and we do not know where it is, how do we intend to do something about it? That's why I'm asking the Chamber today to take those first little steps for masters and damsels. That can be done by looking more broadly at the bag of money that school administrators are getting now, than is happening now. Yes, the Chamber is investigating the so-called lumpsum, but she's only looking at improvements within the lumpsum. I'd say don't be too scared, dare look out there too for options. And, again, delete that lowest income scale in primary education. He doesn't do justice to the important work these people do. Then we will not be here, but we will take the first step today. Then we show all these people here that we take them seriously. They deserve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	A nicely inspired story of the SP. I do have one more question. That lowest scale LA is indeed a strange scale because it does not exist in the rest of the education system. We would also be in favour of abolishing it, but it will cost about 500 million. How's the SP gonna pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u4	Depending on who asks, it costs between 400 million and 500 million. This indicates once again how many people in education are in that scale. We have made 1 billion extra available for the lumpsum primary education. I must say, frankly, that if Mr Beertema comes up with a better proposal to fund it, I am not going to go to the exact form. I just think that the Chamber should now say, on the road to collective bargaining, that this scale does not belong in education because it simply does not do justice to the responsibility that these people take every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u5	I agree with the SP. I would like the sum of 400 million or 500 million to be found in the education budget. Now the education budget is getting more than 1.4 billion extra every year! increased, but this money is almost unrecoverable, not in smaller classes or teachers' salaries. It's gone; it evaporates in one way. What would Mr Kwint think if we were to use that money to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u6	I think the essence of vaporized money is that you can't spend it anymore. I agree with Mr Beertema. We know only to a very limited extent what happens with a lot of extra money for education. That is why the second half of my speech: make sure that you can untangle those tangles and that the Chamber knows where those billions are going. I would like to talk about this with Mr Beertema and I will make a proposal in the second term to extend the research of the permanent Committee on Education into improvements within the lumpsum so that the possibilities outside the lumpsum are also looked at. Then it might just happen that we find a lot of extra money. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that all the extra money we find has to go to those teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr Kwint has just said that the SP election programme says that an additional 1 billion will go to the lump sum and that this could go to teachers' salaries as far as he is concerned. When I look at the SP election programme, I see that 600 million has been allocated to the lump sum in primary education, but that money is spent on the maximum size of the class. In other words, I do not see money for teacher salaries in the SP election programme. How does Mr Kwint explain that? Then how can he make this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mrs Becker has just witnessed this. I'm looking forward to the review. I told you we're gonna add $1 billion. Mrs Becker has forgotten two plus points of 0.2 billion. That adds up to 1 billion. As I said to Mr Beertema, I do not depend so much on where the money is to come from. I'm fine with it. Many parties in the Chamber believe that the lowest level of education has no place. Let us then look at what we can agree on and how we could jointly find the 400 million or 500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u9	I hear another plea from the SP for extra money. Is it true that the SP in the previous electoral programme, which actually relates to this cabinet period, would have wanted to cut 1 billion in education? If it had been for the SP, we would have only had less money for teacher salaries and we would have even increased the classes. Would he also congratulate the cabinet today for not having done so, because the cabinet did not choose to do so, but rather kept up the money for education, even more so, that the amount per pupil has increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u10	In the meantime, Mrs Becker might know that if she starts a question with the words: 'Mr Kwint would like to compliment the cabinet', the answer is no nine times out of ten. I would like to hold on to that for this debate. This is a discussion about an election programme of 2012 in which we have stated: make sure that money intended for teachers is no longer provided through that lump sum. That is exactly what we are talking about. It's money that we don't know what happened to it. Take that out, make sure you pay it directly to the teachers. You're gonna cut back on that, too. Why? Because you can invest so precisely and purposefully, unlike what is currently the case. That is how we came to these calculations. I'd love to explain that to you again, but we'll still be here at 9:30.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u11	We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u12	Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u13	I will come back to the billion that the SP claims to have left for primary education. That's right: that was the 600 million for small classes, for which I compliment. This is also included in the D66 programme. We'll see how that's gonna end. The other 400 million goes, if I do, to extra hours of gym class and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u14	Special education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u15	...the increase of the lumpsum in special education, indeed. So don't go to salaries. My question therefore remains. What the SP is doing now is of course very easy, and that's how I know the SP: if there's a problem somewhere, vans will soon arrive, and free soup will be distributed, and flags, horns and hats. But I have never seen that because of the SP euros went to education. So even though they sometimes evaporate, at least in the eyes of the SP, they never came through the SP. Isn't this a little cheap, Mr. Kwint? Are you not trying to score in a somewhat easy way in front of today's public gallery with the illusion that we are going to solve this problem here with a motion, that is to say, the motion you are going to table, for an important part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u16	There are quite a few possibilities to catch up on this somewhat flowery interruption by Mr Van Meenen. Let me start with the 600 million for smaller classes. We are indeed in complete agreement on this. In fact, we have jointly written an initiative law for this. Mr Van Meenen said that we will see what happens with that. As far as I am concerned, we are going to go through with this with full force, so that we can work together in this cabinet period to ensure that those classes really get smaller. Mr Van Meenen further says that Mr Kwint is acting as if this could be resolved with a simple motion. Let me quote from my own text, which is now before me. It says: "And of course you don't solve this with a simple motion." I can't make it much clearer, Mr. Van Meenen; I've literally said this. I think it is fantastic and we can continue to discuss this for a very long time, but everyone I speak to, whether it is here in the Chamber or people in education, says: it can no longer be done this way. In fact, I have heard many colleagues on this subject. We can continue to discuss forever what was in the counter-budget in 1478 but we can also decide not to stand back to the schoolyard and to do something now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u17	I'm not going back to 1478; I'm just going back to the SP election program, whose ink is barely dry. That election programme does not include a euro for higher salaries. That is the case with all the parties here. In any case, it is all very limited, and nothing at all compared to what PO in Action is asking, however rightly you can find it. In that case, shouldn't we just be honest and say that that's very complicated? Mr Kwint concludes his speech by saying: let us take a small step, which is to remove LA from primary education. It is a small step and it seems to be a kind of formality, but it costs EUR 500 million. And so it remains the question where Mr Kwint gets that from. The billion he quotes from his election programme has already been spent: that goes to smaller classes, to special education and to gymnastics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u18	I appreciate Mr Van Meenen's optimism, but for the time being that law on smaller classes has not yet passed through the Chamber. It would be fantastic, but I have the idea that if Mr Van Meenen and I put our heads together for ten minutes, we will be able to come up with cover. This seems to me to be a lot more useful to the teachers than this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. The workload in education, and especially in primary education, is spreading. The classes are too big, with outliers to 36 students. In addition, the introduction of appropriate education also involves children who often need additional guidance. A primary school teacher therefore needs additional support and expertise. Teachers in primary education are highly motivated people and you can see them sitting here doing everything you can to keep the students from getting hurt. But right now, the water is up to them. It can't be done, for no one! But if only that were all. The other day, I was very struck by a story from Miss Annelies' AD from Dordrecht. She collapsed due to high workload after having had no less than 26 temporary contracts in six years. The school still refused to offer her the security of a fixed income. Now this teacher's home sick. It's really time for action. 50PLUS states that with regard to the first, at least the classes should be smaller. That is in the interests of the children and the teachers. In addition, there must be sufficient support staff, for example for children who need extra guidance, but also for all kinds of hand and span services in schools. I assume the Secretary of State, before he goes home, doesn't have to clean his office first and he doesn't have to take out the garbage bags before he starts in the morning. But in primary education this must be done by the teachers or the management, because most of the janitors have been cut off. The same teacher should also prepare, check, coach, meet with colleagues, engage in apprenticeship follow-up systems and administrative work. And I'm sure I'll forget a whole row. All that must be done by the teacher for a grab. There is much less money there than in secondary education and in MBO: 30%, as has just been confirmed. If we take our education seriously, those salaries really need to be raised, starting with those of the primary school teachers. Does the Secretary of State have a plan for how he'd like to handle that? And he's gonna do that? More men may therefore feel called to choose this profession. I read recently in the AD version by Mr Kwint that it was just said that extra money was paid out, but that did not go to the staff. "Basic school pays gas bills out of salary pool teachers," said the headline. So the money goes on to other things. According to Berenschot's report, schools cannot do otherwise because the lumpsum is not sufficient. The PO Council therefore states that EUR 375 million must be added every year to reasonably cover these costs. Is this recognised by the Secretary of State and is he going to do something with this? The Secretary of State also wrote to us that he is considering other forms of financing with the PO Council. When can we expect more news about this? Finally, it is known that more and more people aged 15 and over are low-literate. Those are exactly 2.5 million people. That didn't come from one day to the next. A good basis is vital to tackle this problem. Does the Secretary of State agree with 50PLUS? Primary education is worth investing in and now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the workload of teachers in primary education, a subject that has been discussed a lot in recent years but which has been given too little urgency. Let's start with a few facts. Figures from the CBS show that education has been the sector with the highest number of burn-out complaints for years. This affects roughly one in five teachers. The Netherlands also scores high internationally. This is reflected in OECD reports. The work pressure study carried out by the General Education Association showed that teachers in primary education work almost seven hours a week. In short, teachers are busy. And that is not only detrimental to their own health, but it is also bad for education. Teachers like to pay more attention to students but do not get enough. Moreover, it is detrimental to the profession, given the considerable shortage of teachers. According to the letter from the State Secretary of February 2017, the deficit in primary education rises to more than 4,000 fte in 2020 and more than 10,000 fte in 2025 under unchanged policies. Working pressure and the shortage of teachers run hand in hand, because in order to reduce the workload, we need to reduce the classes and reduce the number of teaching hours for teachers. But these measures will require more teachers. The same letter from the Secretary of State shows that if the teaching task is reduced, as the Chamber earlier in a motion, the teacher shortage rises to 21,000 fte by 2020. I'm just talking about primary education. The letter I mentioned earlier also mentions a number of solutions which all amount to training more teachers and ensuring that they continue to work in education. The letter we received yesterday gives a nice follow-up with all kinds of measures that mainly reduce administrative pressure. That looks good on paper, but I would like to know how we will proceed in practice in the coming years. That is why I would like to ask for further elaboration and a plan of action. How are we going to do that in concrete terms? Who's gonna do it and what do we expect? Quite specifically: how many extra hands in the classes does it bring and what are the costs of the measures proposed by the Secretary of State? I would also like an evaluation in a year's time. Have all these measures really led to more teachers and less workload? I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State. Better control is also needed. For example, the 2013 education agreement allocated 150 million to retain or attract 3,000 teachers. We all know this didn't happen. I cannot issue a receipt, said the Secretary of State literally when a debate in a Chamber asked where the money has gone. How does the Secretary of State view better control of amounts earmarked for a particular purpose? I would also like to call for more rights for participation. GroenLinks wants the staff to have an extra stick behind the door. We recently read in the Algemeen Dagblad that educational money is used to pay the gas bill but that staff are not enough. According to Article 11 of the School Participation Act, the works council has the right to advise on defining the main lines of financial policy. There was a political majority here to turn that into a right of consent and also an internet consultation about it, but after that the process seems to have been shut down. Can the Secretary of State tell us what the state of play is now? Finally, I would like to say a few words about the administrative burden. This is one of the reasons why teachers have a great workload, as the Secretary of State himself says in his letter. Moreover, this makes the work difficult because teachers want to spend their time on good education. The education inspector states that schools themselves often instruct the staff to administer much. The inspection wants to work towards better information. We propose that the inspection of schools should limit the number of words in which they want to see that accountability. How does the Secretary of State feel about this? I'm closing up. There is much more to be said about the workload and the causes, and it seems clear to me that we must work towards a solution. My group hopes that we will take a step closer in this debate, because all those teachers, including the teachers here in the public gallery and those who are watching in other rooms, deserve a better future perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u21	Mr. Chairman. Masters and teachers deserve appreciation for the important work they do on a daily basis. Not only do they learn to count and write children, but they contribute to the formation of young lives and give children values, so that they can later contribute to our society and make their own choices. In addition, there is much more to look at than just teaching. It also means dealing with students who need special attention, with social problems that come into school, perhaps now much more than ten years ago. Even though I have never been in class myself, I speak to many teachers in primary education and have great respect for them. I also know that the workload can be high. It is understandable that teachers should draw attention to this, including the teachers who are sitting here today in the public gallery. I just want to say that it is too easy what the SP is doing with this debate today. The SP takes the legitimate concerns of the teachers who are sitting here today with a proposal that there should be a big bag of money in order to abolish the lowest pay scale. Apart from the fact that there is no money for this in the SP election programme and also apart from the fact that we cannot debate money today because there is a formation going on, it does not do justice to the issue of workload in education. Work pressure is a problem that is experienced very differently in different schools and by different teachers. There are schools where this workload is perceived by teachers as very high, but there are also schools where it is less so, whereas that cannot be explained by a difference in money. According to the VVD, what really matters is how a school organises the education and how professional a board and a school leader then deal with together with a team of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'm gonna try to do a logic exercise with Mrs. Becker. Does she agree with me that the shortage of teachers, i.e. a shortage of teachers, means that the same number of teachers must do more work and that a lack of remuneration can make it more complicated to solve the shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u23	The debate we are having today is about the workload. Mr Kwint has requested this debate following the NIS investigation, which shows that many teachers say they have a huge administrative burden. In the context of that debate, he presented a proposal to increase the amount of money allocated to salaries. Mr Kwint is well aware that there are a lot of parties here today that have more money for teachers and for education in their electoral programme. But they also know that we are currently being formed and that we cannot say much more about it. So, just to remain logical in the debate: let's talk about the subject we are talking about today, so about the workload. Then I note that the solution proposed by Mr Kwint to add a bag of money is not the solution. I would just like to comment on what the solutions would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u24	I'll wait for that with enthusiasm. But I think it's amazing so far. Let us put aside the argument that is now being formed. I still have some understanding for that, although I would say: let us all at least take a first step. Anyway... In addition, Mrs Becker is now denying the link between salaries, the shortage of teachers and the workload. That's not such a complicated little bridge, is it? It's not so complicated that people might decide not to go into primary education because of the salary, that there are fewer teachers to do the same work and that therefore you have more work to do as a teacher? That's not so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u25	I think Mr Kwint is failing the teacher when he says that the salary is the motivating factor to work in education. I think the salary is very important. The VVD also thinks that the teacher deserves appreciation. That is also what we are paying attention to in our electoral programme. We cannot have that debate here today alone. We are talking today about other measures that, as far as I am concerned, we could already take, and we are also talking about things that schools can learn from each other. One school might be doing very well to keep the workload down while the other school is less successful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u26	Mr Kwint, do you have a second interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u27	No, no, no. I just wanted to ask whether or not there is a link between salary and workload. The question is very simple: is there a connection or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u28	I don't think there's any connection between pay and workload. If you get a higher salary, you won't suddenly experience the paperwork as less intense. I do think that salary is also an important issue to look at, but we cannot discuss it with each other today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u29	Please continue, Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u30	When you experience the pressure of work, most of those teachers ask where the workload comes from, they say it's not necessarily because of teaching themselves, but because of the paperwork. This is also apparent from the research carried out by the NIS. But what does it turn out to be? The paperwork doesn't always come from The Hague. It is very often also about obligations that schools impose on themselves. Fortunately, there are already enough schools that are doing well. That's where paperwork is kept down. There is also something done with the information you have to keep up with as a teacher. If you find it useful as a teacher to keep track of students' data, many teachers say it is much less likely to experience it as a workload than if you have to keep track of all kinds of records that you never hear back from. In schools that do well, test results are used to adapt education. There's a feedback culture, as it's called. The VVD said it before in a debate: quality differences between schools are large in the Netherlands. We want these good schools to be the norm. We believe that these are also the schools where the professional culture with a good school leader reduces the workload better. Does the Secretary of State share the view that this connection may exist and that the schools that do well in terms of quality, with a professional working environment, are also the schools where the workload is better controlled? I recently asked the Secretary of State in writing whether he could make a brochure for all schools and teachers to remove misunderstandings about compulsory paperwork. The Secretary of State has promised me that he will ensure that this information gets to the schools. I would like to thank him for that. Can he confirm that this is happening before the summer? We hope that the new supervision will ensure that every school continues to strive to become better and more professional, in quality and in organisation. This is in the interests of both the teacher and the student. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that the inspection has sufficient tools to encourage schools to improve themselves and help them with workload? This is not only in the interests of the teachers, but also in the interests of the student.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u31	Mr. Chairman. "Why one teacher is relaxed and the other always overworked" was the headline of an article from a few weeks ago. Two primary school teachers, both with a heart for the profession, spoke. One sees administration as a source of information: "How does a student do it? How's the class doing? What else can I do?" "Through these analyses I am more consciously engaged in the goal I want to go to," she says. The other sees it as a must from the inspection. She says: "The Education Inspectorate simply asks that we register a lot as a school. I'm working on it four hours a week." These are two totally different perceptions of administrative obligations, one of the main causes of workload. It shows how complicated the discussion we are having here today is. It is important to consider this today, because work stress is occupational disease number 1 and workload is the main reason for the absence of work. It is at the expense of people's health and the quality of education. It's a tough issue, and teachers have been putting it up for decades. Employers see the problem and, together with politics, have been working on solutions for years, yet the workload is not decreasing. Why are there no results? It is clear that we are not just looking at politics in The Hague. It's a shared responsibility. Teachers are particularly affected by administrative obligations imposed on them by their own school, their administration or cooperation. The approach to the workload begins at school. The director is the boss and he is responsible. To be honest, I was a little surprised that the PO Council has joined the manifesto. When it comes to the call for more money, I understand. We've known that call for years from the PO Council. Financial frameworks can get tight and then it comes down to the choices you make as a school. But as an employer, you cannot hide behind that when it comes to your responsibility for your people, for a healthy working environment. Then you have to show leadership at school. And there are great differences in the quality of school leaders in the Netherlands, while a school leader can be such a determining factor in the working environment in a school. This is why the Christian Union wants to invest extra in strong teams and good school leaders, who together shape education within the school. Good leadership and strong teams are crucial. In addition, there must of course be sufficient teachers. There is a serious shortage of teachers in primary education. There aren't enough students on the pabo. The influx is one-sided: few men, hardly students with a migration background and few graduates with a profile in nature or technology, according to the Education Report this year. An instrument to increase diversity in the influx is to add the teacher's profession in primary education to the UWV's call list, so that retraining and side influx become more attractive. The Secretary of State would discuss this with his colleagues from Social Affairs, he told me in February following my initiative paper Kerels before the classroom. When's this gonna happen? We can't wait any longer. And what about the implementation of my adopted motion asking for an investigation into what is needed to make the Scheme's side-inflow grant for schools cost-covering? The problems in education are more fundamental than a lack of money. How can you expect talent to come in when the workload is high, the salary is under pressure and the development possibilities are limited? This attractiveness should not only consist of the large number of holiday days that are sometimes a bit harsh. That is, by the way, an element that I am missing in the discussion. Isn't it logical that in the discussion about salary, class time and curriculum development, this point is also on the collective bargaining table? Because a lot of vacation weeks isn't just nice. It also means that you have to stuff a relatively large amount of work in relatively few working weeks or that you have to work on your holiday. That, too, is workload. I'm rounding up. Work pressure has many causes and experienced workload varies per person. But the fact that there is a problem in education is obvious. It is one of the major challenges of the next cabinet to take steps in this direction together with employers, school leaders and teachers. And yes, according to the Christian Union, extra money is needed for education that needs to be targeted to reduce work pressure and increase quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Chairman. Ask everyone and everyone will answer, including me, Miss Els, Master Erik, Miss Hinke or Mr Storm, the director of the school. With heart and soul they are not only in front of the classroom, but nowadays also in the middle of the classroom, the place where all these special moments arise, so that we still remember the names of our primary school teachers or teachers. So it seems timeless, but being a teacher or a master isn't the same as it was 50 years ago, and luckily so. Our education moves along with social and technological change. But what never changes is that teaching is a craft. The essence of this craft is: teaching children. Unfortunately, our teachers are not well suited to this craft. An overkill of registration, the digging of mountain administration and the endless accountability are not part of this craft. We're gonna have to stop doing that. Schools ring the bell. Education is the alarm clock. In the meantime, it has come to this point that one in five teachers suffer from burnout complaints. 36,000 of them have even indicated their willingness to strike as a last resort. One in eight teachers consider other work because of the workload. These people deserve to practice their profession with pleasure and without getting overexcited, the craft they love so much. These figures are a disgrace to a country that wants to be known as a knowledge-based economy. So more money is being invested, but what do we get in return? Lower salaries, higher workload, more control pressure, larger classes: we get less in return and that is the reversed world. That's why it's time for action. DENK requires the new cabinet to take the following measures: 1. We want smaller classes with up to 25 students per class. Too large classes emerge as one of the reasons for the high workload of teachers. DENK therefore no longer wants puff classes but clear and personal groups, in which teachers can give students sufficient individual attention. 2. DENK wants more teaching assistants. The concierge or class help does important work which allows teachers to engage in the content again. A teacher shouldn't be standing endlessly by a copier. Someone can help with that. 3. DENK wants teachers to get a fair and good salary. In relation to the year 2002, their salary has fallen relatively. Fifteen years in the minus or on the zero line: that is not possible for a subject that we should appreciate. And then there is the fact that teachers earn less in the po than teachers in the vo. No wonder these people feel underappreciated! 4. DENK wants us to put an end to regulation terror and management culture in education. The government must make it clear to schools and teachers that filling out endless forms makes no sense. We ask for more commitment and less commitment from the Secretary of State. 5. Finally, the lump sum funding needs to be examined. We get too many reports that schools interne on the salary budget to pay for example the gas bill. DENK therefore supports the PO Council's request for a parliamentary examination of the expenditure of educational funds. These action points are needed for the people who really matter, namely the students. Today the final exams have started and throughout the country the further career of many boys and girls is co-designed. That reminds us of what we're doing it for. We are doing it for the next generation, which will lead our country further in the future and will populate it further. So what is to be done? Take care of smaller classes. Provide more educational support staff. Give more money for the girls and the masters. Put an end to the regulatory burden and take a rigorous look at the funding. Ready!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u33	It's a wonderful show. It's just too bad it's not your election program. I'm gonna get back to it, even though it might be a little boring. The DENK election programme is really only about those smaller classes, but I hear you now also about salary increases and extra hands in the classroom. You didn't make any money for that. How are we supposed to rhyme with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u34	The DENK election programme allocates 900 million to education. Indeed, some of them go to smaller classes. In fact, I find it interesting to see that during this debate I understand that because D66 is sitting at the formation table, there is less talk about what we really want to do with each other. I would also like to ask Mr Van Meenen what he wants. I know he stood for smaller classes in the past, but does he also stand for more budget and more money for educational support staff and teachers? Instead of sitting on each other's ants in election programmes, we should put together a vision of where we want to go and I challenge Mr Van Meenen to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u35	It is Mr Van Meenen who interrupts and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u36	That's very kind of you, Mr. Chairman. I shall be speaking in a moment and I shall serve Mr Kuzu at his beck and call. This is just an interruption. You can of course say "we should not sit here ants, because we simply want to lay down a grand vision here as DENK and we have thought carefully about extra money for this or that topic" but the point is that in your own program you do not make that money available at all. This should simply be mentioned here at some point, otherwise we will be turning our minds on the teachers. Then we'll pretend that money comes out of the trees by itself if we just call it out here. That is not the case, and that is why I am asking every party that speaks such big words and does not deliver in its own accounts and in its own programme, what exactly is going to happen? What exactly is going to happen when it comes to DENK and how is it that is not in your election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u37	We have earmarked EUR 900 million for education in our electoral programme; I repeat, for the sake of clarity, because Mr Van Meenen is so interested in the figures and has put every letter from each political party's electoral programme under a magnifying glass. I'm curious about his own story later! What matters is that, as far as I am concerned, the commitment of political parties does not have to be sealed off in their electoral programme. We note that a lot of people, a lot of teachers, in the past but also at the moment, are hanging on the alarm clock. This means that we, as politicians, have a responsibility to do something about it instead of hiding behind the formation table, as the VVD has done, or, as you do, Mr Van Meenen, in election programmes and overdrafts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u38	A response from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u39	This calls for a third term, if it's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u40	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u41	That 900 million is also in DENK's election programme, that's right, and it's about smaller classes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u42	And educational disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u43	600 million in primary education and 300 million in secondary education. That's the 900 million. You say the alarm bells are ringing. Sure, they haven't been ringing since a few weeks, but they've been ringing for years. My question to you is: why are you not doing anything about it? You may call that ant, but at the end of the day, in this house, if we call for something, we have to want to make it happen. My question is: if you want all this, then what are you going to pay for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u44	We certainly intend to achieve that. This means that we are currently deciding what we would like to see for education. If you share with us that these points need to be realised, I would also like to talk to you about how we can solve them. But at the moment we also know that D66 is forming with a number of parties. On the basis of the government agreement that will emerge, we will assess to what extent you have done justice to your own electoral programme. Then we shall have another debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u45	I doubt for a moment; this debate is of course somewhat unsatisfactory because it is difficult for us to really go into the content because, as some Members have said, negotiations are taking place elsewhere. But I am fascinated by what Mr Kuzu is calling out here. I would like to ask him: what does a teacher in L.A. make at the end of his scale, according to Mr. Kuzu?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u46	I know very well what a teacher in the p.o. But I refuse to answer this question in principle because I do not see this as a questioning. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr Kuzu says he knows that, but apparently he does not want to answer the question. Where, according to Mr Kuzu, should that salary eventually grow to do justice to his programme, which apparently has an appendix since today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u48	I will not answer this question in principle either. We're not doing a hearing here, come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. 80% of primary school teachers work structuralally and there is a lot of burn-out. This is evident not only from the research carried out by the NIS, but also from the professional organisations. That image does not date from yesterday, by the way. For years, there has been a frustrating administrative burden which has swallowed up far too much precious time in education. That is one of the most important or perhaps the most important source of all this frustration. A teacher who administers isn't there for his or her students, it's as simple as that. In the meantime, as a Chamber, as an auditor of the government and thus as an auditor of the official services implementing our education policy, such as the education inspection, it is clear that the administrative pressure is not caused by an excess of demands made by the government or by the inspection. Many managers and administrators in education still make it look like this to their teachers: it has to come from the inspection; if we don't deliver this or that we will be cut off, so bring up those analyses and those group plans! The lack of confidence that the managers, directors and managers of the schools themselves seem to have in the professionalism of their own teachers, the excess of control they apparently feel when it comes to their own implementation chain, and not to mention the partnerships in the appropriate education are the bad source of evil called administrative burden. I believe that the inspection within the possibilities that it has done has done a very good job in clarifying what is and is not mandatory. There are webinars, tweeting inspectors and congresses. They do it creatively and consistently. But the inspection communicates with directors, with executives and other executives. They should know by now. But then what happens to all that information from the inspection? That is where we encounter a tough difficulty in education: the incredibly poor internal communication. Drivers and managers are busy, busy, busy with those webinars and those congresses, but then the information already sticks to the top. Combined with moderate participation councils, which can do a great deal but do not make enough use of them, there is the reason that this tough discomfort of administrative burden continues to grow. I believe that the Secretary of State has done with this whole range of initiatives from the Ministry and is still doing what we can ask him to do. There have been agreements made in the National Educational Agreement. I also mention the Regulatory Pressure Agenda and Operation Rules. There's a website and an active inspection. Anyone who says that the Secretary of State should do even more for the big line of reducing the regulatory burden is really wrong. But although the problem is not with the government but with the schools themselves, at the end of the day the Secretary of State will of course be the politically responsible, also for those poorly communicating directors and directors. In addition to informing the executives, my proposal is to send the brochure the VVD spoke of with a clear explanation to at least all Mr's, all co-determination councils, if not already done. As far as I'm concerned, we'll even send him to the home addresses of all primary school teachers. That way we know for sure that all those teachers have really been informed. Only then can a critical conversation begin between teachers, Mrs and directors. That is not good, because the Secretary of State is taking over the executives. But if they're gonna leave it there, and they're gonna do it, then it's only gonna have to happen once. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, there are, of course, still some changes to be made at the level of detail. For example, the SP asked for standardised forms in the partnerships. I think that's a good idea. According to the Secretary of State, this cannot be done, because the partnerships have been given the opportunity to organise their own processes. That may be so, but if that space is so large that it is no longer possible to design the same forms for the same kind of children with the same kind of aid questions, what does that free space do? So what is the added value of the fact that each partnership on its own initiative invents the wheel and develops its own processes that are also not compatible? I'd say less free space. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Chairman. There are problems in education. When you see it, you can do different things. You can start PO in Action. That's very good. You can go into politics. That's nice, too. I did so four and a half years ago, because some of these problems were already known to me. I experienced them in person; I walked around in them all my life. Politics can change things for the better, but it can also worsen the situation for education. I see it as my job to make the situation for education as good as possible. This also applies to my fellow Members, I am in favour of it, but sometimes we differ on the question of what is 'as good as possible'. However, the problem we are facing today is not at all different. 80% of primary school teachers work on a structural basis. 84% experience a high workload. There are more burn-out complaints than in other sectors. Appropriate education increases the differences in the classroom and the workload. The workload for teachers in primary education is caused by large classes, by too many pupils who need extra guidance and also by administrative burdens, for example in tracking systems, evaluations, social-emotional questionnaires, test folders and so on. D66 has an agenda to do something about that workload. I have asked a number of colleagues very carefully about their election programme, so it is also fair to say what we ourselves intended to do. We allocate 800 million to smaller classes of up to 24 pupils. We really want to give the teachers time to develop, to be engaged in the development of their profession. We want less lessons and more development time. This is crucial for quality, but also for making the profession of teacher more attractive. That is why we are making 500 million in our programme. We pay 300 million for janitors and class assistants who can take the job off their hands and 100 million for extra salary for the teachers who are facing the most difficult classes. We also want less administrative burdens and much more confidence. I also agree with what Mr van GroenLinks said about the right of assent on the main lines of the budget, which has been the subject of a number of debates. That could, among other things, put the money in the right place. The Secretary of State is working on that. He will no doubt continue to talk about it. I'm joining PO in Action now. I see a gallery full of teachers, and many are watching. You're facing a difficult task. We ask a lot of education. Everything we propose here for good education starts with good teachers, teachers with heart for children and heart for education. Many teachers have endorsed the manifesto PO in Action. This is about lower workload, and again, my party stands with others to do everything in its power to reduce the workload. But there is another question, actually quite suddenly: a question for more salary. It is not so new in itself, but the question is now also whether the salary is equal to that in secondary education. I understand that question, because the task of people in primary education is hard and crucial for the future, but I am also very honest, as you have seen from my interruptions: we cannot solve all the problems at once here. We're working with other parties to talk about what we can do. I am also curious to see what will come out of that, I say quite honestly. We have opted in our election programme for an approach to the workload. I have already listed all the measures. In any case, the workload must be drastically reduced and the quality of education must be maintained. That's my party's first priority right now. Thank you very much, Mr President. Ah, I see Mr. Kwint walking to the interrupting microphone. I was afraid he wouldn't do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u51	You looked at him in an inviting way, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u52	I specifically asked him to reserve an interruption for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u53	And then, of course, I do it with love! In the middle of Mr Van Meenen's speech, the sentence which was very relevant to me came along: we do not disagree on this. Then there was a whole line of proposals that D66 had in his election program. By the way, that is a lot of fine proposals, compliments. What are we going to do today with these proposals or with all the other proposals coming along for all those people from PO in Action and all the other primary school teachers who stand in front of the class every day? What can we do for these people today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u54	Nothing. And you knew that when you asked for this debate. Because we're in the middle of a formation. All proposals from the parties willing to participate in the formation are now being negotiated. That's why we can't do anything for those people today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u55	Then perhaps it would have been clear to all those people who have come here if you had simply not supported my request for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u56	I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u57	I'm looking at the chairman with a slanted eye right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u58	I'm fighting that I did. Anyway, let's not have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u59	I think it is quite a relevant discussion!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u60	Yeah, let's talk about that! That seems to me to be very important right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u61	What seems very essential to me is that primary school teachers everywhere in education show that they can't take it and can't take it anymore. I understand that you say that we cannot accept all the demands of PO in Action with one stroke of pens. But if you say that we can do nothing for these people today, I would say to them: sit in the sun. I mean, why are they here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u62	As President, I think it is important that we have visitors from education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u63	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u64	Oh, no, they're also very welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u65	I think it is very relevant for teachers to see clearly what politics can and cannot do and what parties stand for at the moment. That has become very clear here. But we all know that the answer to your last question is what can we do for those parties here and now? It's just very simple: nothing. Maybe next week or in two months we can do something when the formation is over. But I have heard today that the parties that are now taking responsibility in the formation are all prepared to make efforts to improve the position of the people here. That sounds pretty clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. It is good to see how much behaviour there is in the sector and how many people are taking the trouble to come here to follow this debate on the workload in primary education. At the same time, this debate is a bit of a recipe for disappointment, because the concrete measures will have to be laid down at the negotiating table, not in this Chamber today. The work pressure in education is a recurring theme. Much has been said about it in recent years. The biggest annoyance and causer of the workload, as shown by the research of the NOS, is not the size of the classes or the number of working hours but the administrative burden. I recognize that annoyance from my work visits and conversations with teachers. They have also inspired me to be reluctant with constantly new rules and not to impose new tests and laws from The Hague on the schools. The CDA has advocated experiments with law-abiding schools to expose the Hague rules and laws that hinder teachers in their work. There is also a need to clarify the additional administrative and obligation burden of school administration. I am pleased that the cabinet has carried out that experiment, but I regret that this is only carried out with the state's "excellent' predicate. Does the Secretary of State see in the preliminary proceeds that this experiment can finally be extended? Much of the experienced administrative burden is attributed to the educational inspection. We now have a new monitoring framework of the inspection, which has been partly shaped by the initiative law of SGP, D66 and CDA, but it will not enter into force until August 2017. So I understood the kindergarten teacher who said in De Monitor: I don't know yet, but if it's okay after the holiday. Can the Secretary of State indicate what experience has been gained at the experimental schools and whether the new supervisory framework will actually reduce the administrative burden? Can he indicate how the education inspectors are being prepared for the new way of working, so that all schools and all teachers benefit from it? In 2016, the Secretary of State stated in a broadcast by De Monitor that teachers should stop administrative acts that they do not consider necessary. He said, "If such a teacher has a good story that it doesn't contribute at all to good education, then he has a good one for me when it comes to support." My question to the Secretary of State is: does this also apply to the registration of group plans, apprenticeship tracking systems, transfer systems and procedures related to appropriate education, which many teachers say lead to work pressure? Appropriate education leads to additional workload, by those children with care or support needs in the classroom, but also by the administration. Yet once more: why not improve the standardisation of all these regulations and fill-in forms? Couldn't that also make a contribution? As far as the CDA is concerned, it is not only the question of how much money we give to education but also the question of what we do with it. I know that the p.o. sector, the primary education sector, is the sector with the least overhead and the sector where most money comes into the classroom. But can the Secretary of State indicate how much money there is now in the bank in that sector and how that relates to whether or not it meets the function mix? Because only 26% of the total teacher base has an LB function instead of the agreed 40%. So the PO Council can now call on all kinds of investigations and parliamentary surveys, but they have signed up. They have failed to comply with agreements made by the government, employers and employees with their boards. How does the Secretary of State feel about that? How does he react to this? My final point is the WWZ. How many classes are there after 1 April now that that chain determination is back in? How many classes have been sent home? What about the steps taken to remove the super-legal part of the WW benefit in favour of teachers, from more hands in the classroom?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u67	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, teachers' workload has proved to be a long-term issue. Teachers are therefore right to call the alarm clock, including with PO in Action, which Group colleague Gijs van Dijk spoke with from social matters and I also spoke with. It is good to see a large number of them here to argue for fewer rules and more money. Because the very best education requires not only the very best teachers, but also time to prepare lessons. We must be careful of our teachers to prevent burnouts. The workload of teachers must therefore be reduced. The NIS recently reported that many teachers were sighing under the heavy administrative burdens; it has already been said. So there is not enough time left for teaching preparation and guidance. This means that we will soon be working structuralally with all the consequences. In short, steps must be taken. In his letter, the Secretary of State acknowledges that sense of urgency. In view of the same urgency, last June the D66 and PvdA motion was adopted to structurally reduce the teaching task of full-time teachers to a maximum of 20 hours per week. This gives teachers more time to invest in the quality of their lessons and in the guidance of their students, which is too often the case now. Fortunately, in his letter, the Secretary of State gives a detailed account of possible solutions. Yet I speak to teachers who are worried every week who say to me: do something! Hence my question to the Secretary of State: can he make his commitment more concrete and what the teachers in the public gallery and in the country will notice? What's their perspective? How does he look at making a first start with the phased reduction of that teaching task, so that teachers can have more time for other things? With regard to the reduction of the regulatory and accountability burden in education, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what has resulted from the dust comb operation in the government agreement to reduce administrative obligations for teachers. Has regulation pressure really disappeared? In what way does the Secretary of State keep an eye on this? Could he perhaps also comment on the role of the education inspection as a possible source of regulatory pressure, but also on the contribution it could make to removing it? Finally, due to the need to make the educational profession attractive, especially in the case of p.o., good remuneration for teachers is essential. That will have to be phased out, but a first step is needed. We must ensure that we have and attract sufficient good teachers. We have to reward them nicely, too. How does the Secretary of State look at the late pay of teachers especially in the p.o. Experienced? How are we going to promote growth opportunities to a higher scale? And does he agree with the PvdA that it is desirable to take a first step in this area, perhaps in the education budget for next year? In conclusion, I would like to thank all the teachers who have made time in their busy program to be here today or to watch live with others. A personal thanks to my master Bert, Miss Brenda and Miss Hanny, without whom I would not have been here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u68	I don't think they're in the public gallery. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. And that on this "free" Wednesday afternoon! It is very good to see the enormous involvement of education in this subject. I look forward to the follow-up. I hope that this debate will enjoy more, so that, even if there are other subjects on the agenda, the same overwhelming interest may be our share. How many students can you have as a teacher in class? If you ask ten teachers separately, you're guaranteed to get ten different answers. Work pressure is subjective, so you often hear. I'm sure that's true. That element is included, but there are many more factors involved. The government does not come to a clear analysis on this point, is the opinion of the SGP. I read that a class with 22 students can be better than a class with 30. Sure, but the opposite can also be true, so I know from experience from my past. For this reason, an average group size, which is still on course, is not really a good indicator in the context of education policy. Does the Secretary of State share this conclusion? I'm a history teacher from home. So I can't resist taking a look back in time. 100 years ago, the Lower Education Act was passed. How big was the average group size in schools? That's the law. There's a lovely little toothbrush in it. It set out how many teachers there had to be at a school. Were there only 25 students in a school, regardless of year classes? Then one teacher was enough. As soon as the 26th student came in, a second teacher had to be appointed. Did the 61st student report? Then there had to be three teachers present. A fourth teacher had to be appointed to the 91st pupil. Then an extra teacher had to be appointed for every 45 students upstairs. So one could do a little magic with the average group size, while also taking into account the size of schools. When I let this all work on me a little bit, my conclusion was that even when the average group size wasn't that significant. Because it doesn't say anything about the students you have in front of you. Work pressure is not only in the number of students, but also in the number of rules. My colleagues have all drawn attention to this. Work pressure is mostly in unnecessary rules. The working group PO in Action has shown us an example of a teacher who should write a transfer report from his students to himself because he will have the same students in another class next year. Guys, this is really... Let me keep it parliamentary: this is really too crazy for words. You would think that this kind of thing only comes from cartoons, but apparently it also happens in reality. I'd like to ban that as director. If a lecturer takes care of this kind of administration on his own, I would counter a salary cut. I see my time is running out, Mr. Chairman. I come to the appropriate education. We hear examples of schools being saddled by the partnership with stacks of forms. How is it possible that schools within a partnership have not dealt with this for a long time? Bringing forward good practices at that point might not be such a bad idea. It is right that the cabinet should put the ball in schools to deal with the red tape that they themselves organise. The necessary information is being done, but with one of our colleagues here, the SGP sees the risk that this will mainly reach the drivers. These are not usually the ones who feel the most important and urgent in dealing with this problem. How are we going to get teachers and schools moving? What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for this? Finally, I come to the salary perspective of teachers in primary and secondary education. There's some weird differences between them. Teachers in secondary education have at least a perspective of €500 more per month than almost all colleagues in primary education. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's reflection on that. I agree with the next question. What are the possibilities for the Secretary of State to make changes in the short or medium term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u70	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about the workload of teachers in primary education, but actually we are talking about more. That has become clear in the past week. It is quite a list: there are reports in various media, television programmes, such as the Nieuwsuur broadcast last Saturday, there are surveys, surveys of NOS among teachers, but also surveys of unions, and there are the sounds of teachers themselves. This has revealed many negative stories about working in primary education. Stories that are not just about workload as such but also about regulation pressure, about large classes and about teachers' salaries. That's good in itself. We're here to talk about trouble. But let's not talk each other out of it either. Earlier this week, I met an English professor who, in a similar discussion on this subject, walked to the microphone with some surprise, and said: you have one of the world's best education systems. We must insist that our education system and our schools are doing very well. They perform well, they are efficiently designed and over the past four years, despite the crisis and the many cuts in other sectors, we have been able to invest in education, namely in the professionalisation of teachers, for example through the teacher fair and through summer schools. The quality of education in the Netherlands is also good. This is repeatedly confirmed by many international monitors. We can all be proud of that. The teachers should be proud of that. I find it incredibly cool that we have a full gallery here today. At the beginning of this debate I was allowed to meet the initiators of PO in Action outside the main square. There is also something about professionalism: the love of education and how beautiful it is to work daily with large groups of students. Those teachers work every day with great commitment, inspiration and energy to prepare young people for their future. They are at the heart of education, they are absolutely indispensable and they deserve a very great compliment. That does not alter the fact that the signals about working pressure do not leave me untouched. A high workload has an effect on everyone. First of all, on the teachers themselves, but also on the colleagues within the school and on the students. If someone fails, the school has a big problem; that is why we all have to take this issue very seriously. I understand very well that the formation time for education is an exciting time. It is also the moment when many wishes, sometimes demands, are put on the table. I understand that, but I also hope for some understanding, given the fact that I am here today as Deputy Secretary of State, and therefore I cannot comment on what exactly comes out of the formation; I certainly cannot do so because the demands and wishes in some sectors, including in education, are sometimes quite high. The same applies to the political wishes. I have heard a whole list of wishes today, from Mr Kwint, from Mr Kuzu: abolishing the lowest pay scales, smaller classes and so on. A great deal has already been said about this: it may be a little faint to refer only to the electoral programmes, because of course thinking does not stand still. After all, you can also come up with a new idea after your election programme. But at least come up with a cover for your ideas, because then we can discuss them seriously. Politics isn't just handing out free beer; it's about making choices in scarcity. If you want to take some more money somewhere, you have to get it from somewhere. You can also raise taxes. I'd like to hear from these initiators where it's supposed to come from. However, today, with a slightly more serious note, I would like to discuss with the Chamber what is behind these teachers' stories. How is it that the workload and regulatory burden is still such a problem in education? How can we do more together than we do now in dealing with workload and regulation? I say 'we' very emphatically, because one thing is clear to me: if we really want to do something about this, it is not a matter of simply pressing the button. We need each other, it is a responsibility of employers, of perhaps teachers themselves, of the government and also of the Chamber. Together, we need to ensure the right framework conditions so that all those teachers are able to do their beautiful work. I would like to address three, maybe four major themes. I would like to say something about the funding of education because there is a lot of noise on the line. I would like to say a few words about the concrete measures we are taking to reduce the workload. I would also like to say a few words about salaries in primary education and a number of other things which are mainly on the tables of the social partners. Finally, I would like to say a few words about a number of factors affecting the workload. Think group size or something like the teacher shortage. Let me start with the funding of education. A lot has been said about it. A number of members quoted reports from earlier this week: the headlines about disappearing into a large black hole of extra billions in education; as if they had evaporated. I think that is a firm statement which, in my view, gives an incorrect picture and does not do justice to reality. That is why I think it is important to support the reports on this subject in the light of the facts that I have already discussed with the Chamber. They also asked for an extensive letter about it, but still a few things. Money in education doesn't just disappear. It is used for education in a broad and specific way for teachers. I am therefore disturbed by the image that some people are drawing as if it were merely messed with. Boarding doesn't get too little money, but it certainly doesn't get too much. My experience is that driving within the possibilities they have makes well-founded choices for education. This is also visible on a number of fronts. The argument that the extra money would not have gone to salaries and that the real wage would have even fallen is highly questionable. I note that, first of all, there has been an increase in real contract wage developments in vo, about 3.5%. Even if you look at where teachers are in the different scales, you should not only look at the way the scales have developed, but also at where the teachers are in those scales. You'll see an increase. Soon I will say something about wage developments in the p.o., when I go into the salaries. First of all, I would like to take away the image that money would have evaporated. Another point: the money has not led to the deployment of more teachers. That's a very one-sided image. It may be true that in secondary education the number of teachers in the period studied has decreased somewhat. At the same time, the flexible shell is not sufficiently taken into account in these data. I must also note that the proportion of educational support staff has increased during that period. How often does this Chamber ask for extra hands in the classroom, the people who can lighten the work of teachers and teachers: janitors, teaching assistants, cleaners, administrators and so on. So you can't look one-sidedly at one part and ignore the rest. Finally, apart from the fact that in the extra resources that have gone into education over the last 15 years of research, there are also a number of major events where it was not so much about staff, but about free textbooks, for example. We are talking about a budget of 300 million, which has indeed gone into education. It's bullshit to say that all that money has evaporated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u72	Is this the end of the "cost" part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u73	There have been some specific questions on funding which I would like to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u74	Then we do it first; that is so clear. Then you will have the floor, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u75	Let me take a look at the state of education, in vo but also in p.o. We see that the financial position of school boards is good, as is evident from the recent financial state of education. Equity has increased, liquidity has increased, solvency has increased in recent years. You can then wait a long time and consider whether we should, for the umpteenth time, investigate the adequacy of funding. I would just like to refer to the investigation which took place during the previous cabinet period. I don't know if something like this is gonna give a lot of new insights. One of the Members asked me what I thought of the suggestion that a parliamentary inquiry should be carried out on this matter. Of course, the Chamber is in charge of its own investigations, but I don't need it. Mrs. Van Brenk asked how the lumpsum works. I've already indicated that I'm not waiting for such an inquiry into adequacy. However, there is a discussion about how the money is used for education. Mrs Westerveld also asked briefly about this: if the Chamber pays out money for a particular purpose and that money goes into the lump sum, how does a good answer take place? I find that rather difficult. I recently sent a letter to the Chamber together with the Minister. On the one hand, we give money to education and we prefer to arrange it as slowly as possible. At the time, it was a broad wish of the Court not to provide for all kinds of subsidy structures and measures. When that happens, we all know what schools are going to do first: hire two officials to fill out the forms. And I may hire two other officials in my department for that. So give schools the room to make independent choices. On the other hand, I believe that more and better public and political accountability is needed by schools. A number of suggestions were made in that letter, for example for more explicit accountability in the annual reports and annual accounts of schools. It may be something for the next cabinet period, but you could also consider using additional resources, should the cabinet decide to do so, to link them more closely to the performance to be achieved. Then it's just said to schools: if they don't deliver, you don't get the money either. So those are ways to do this. I think it's worth considering. Mrs Van Brenk asked me if I think the investment in low literacy is important. Yes, that's one of the themes we've been putting a lot of effort on in recent years. Finally, Mrs Westerveld asked about horizontal accountability. Can participation councils be given a greater role in advice and agreement? I've announced a bill on that. That's still in procedure. My commitment is that the Chamber will receive this proposal for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u76	The Secretary of State admitted, some time ago, that governance is not getting too little and not too much. May I summarize that as: driving gets exactly enough. If boards have been given exactly enough to do their job, I ask the Secretary of State how many extra teachers have been hired with the 500 million extra from the autumn agreement and how many extra janitors and class assistants have been hired with the 50 million for p.o. And for that this cabinet has invested extra in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u77	I really don't want to repeat myself here. I understand that Mr Kwint is like a Member of Parliament, but there are huge pieces and letters in which I have already informed the Chamber of those numbers, no matter how complicated it is to reconstruct them afterwards if you don't work with an hour's bill and with receipts to be surrendered to our ministry. Both the PO Council and the VO Council have indicated, on the basis of consultations with their constituents, that these resources have been used to appoint new teachers or to retain employment in their own organisation. If they hadn't had that money, they should have fired teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u78	The Secretary of State is quite right that I have not been a Member of Parliament for very long, but the advantage of this century is that you can easily read back things that have been said in the past. So thank you for the encouragement, but that's pretty good. Of course, I'm not asking this for nothing. The point is right now, and this has been the case regularly in the past, because it is extremely complicated to find out what happened to additional educational investments. I don't blame that for a school board which, in the end, has to row with the belts it has. I only found the certainty with which the Secretary of State said that boards actually get exactly enough rather striking. How can we establish this with so much certainty if we cannot indicate how many teachers, how many janitors and how many class assistants or how many climbing shelves have been realized with extra tuition fees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u79	I think this is also a difference in political opinion. Do you give schools the confidence to use the money they all get from us in a good way? Is there confidence in the drivers and in the control of those drivers at the local level? I am referring to participation councils and parental educations that ensure that the money is used properly. Is there confidence that the system works properly in such a way that when you submit an annual accounts to an accountant, that accountant checks whether the money is actually being used for the purpose for which it is intended? I think that this is basically something that works well and that the schools have the space to make their own decisions there. Mr Kwint does not have that confidence. For example, he wants to know exactly how many climbing racks have been ordered. Yes, that is a bit from the idea of a guided state economy, that you prefer someone in the big stronghold to keep track of exactly how many euros have been used for swings for all school squares in the Netherlands. I can't, Mr. Kwint, but I don't want to. So that's my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u80	Then let me make it easy. I do not expect the Secretary of State to keep track of the number of swings and climbing racks, but if the Secretary of State announces with a lot of bombs and by the way, with my consent, that 500 million extra teachers will be added, then it is not surprising that after a while the Chamber would like to know how many more of those 500 million have gone to extra teachers? That is not such a crazy question, not even for people who might be a little more sceptical about the concept of the state-led economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u81	I really refer to the letters I wrote to the Chamber about them in the previous period. On the basis of a grassroots consultation, the PO Council visited several schools and asked to indicate how that extra money was spent. A number of schools have indicated that if they hadn't had that money, they might have had to let some younger teachers go on temporary contracts, while they have now been able to offer them a fixed contract knowing that they are badly needed to bridge that particular period. That includes concrete numbers. Your predecessor was not satisfied with it at the time either. Fair is fair. Mr Van Dijk was also critical about it at the time, but those numbers and numbers have really already gone towards the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u82	I was also surprised by your statement that the school boards have exactly enough. That was also my translation: not too much, not too little. Then how do you explain that the PO Council says that in order to keep things going, we need 375 million more?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u83	You'll have to ask the PO Council. In the meantime, I also see from the PO Council a very long list of all kinds of demands and wishes with an account of up to many billions. The General Court analysed the adequacy of the funding in the previous period. If asked whether I can prove that it is precise enough, so not a euro too much, but not too little, then that is very difficult to answer. It's complicated. We give schools money to teach them well. In my view, it is sufficient. It's not a big deal, but if you make good choices in it, you can teach it well. That is also apparent when I look at the financial state of the schools. The schools are now financially healthier than they were a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u84	Are you saying that the P.O. Council is talking a little crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u85	Those are certainly not my words, but I am talking more about the ease with which they say 'we need so much', on top of a number of other wishes that the PO Council has made to you recently. I thought that was a little easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u86	Well, I'd like to get on with that. To my knowledge, there is a legal obligation that the government has imposed itself, as it were, to look at the adequacy of the funding once every five years, in particular the material funding. This was done in 2011 and in 2016, with the same conclusion each time, namely that this funding is insufficient. That is not a political conclusion, which is simply found by renowned independent researchers. It is also important for the subject we are discussing and for the formation to see how the Secretary of State now looks at it and how he weighs it. He certainly has a responsibility in that. In fact, the law also says: in fact, as a result of this report, you have to adjust the funding. How does the Secretary of State look at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u87	With regard to Mr Van Meenen's statement that the overall funding is insufficient, I must say that this report is a little more nuanced about that. The report indicates that more money has been spent on a number of items than may have been described in the programmes of requirements underlying the funding, but the report also says that it is very difficult to say whether it is inadequate. The most important recommendation that Berenschot makes in that report is: the question is whether you should use lumpsum funding to work with such far-fetched programmes of demands and whether that fits at all with overall lumpsum funding. This really dates back to the time of the declaration system. I agree with Berenschot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u89	Oh, I didn't know the answer was over. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u90	You're gonna have to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u91	Yeah, but sometimes you think there's something else coming. Sometimes it doesn't come. What if what Berenschot says is true? Moreover, the same conclusion was drawn in 2011. We expect something from what schools can pay from the material funding. That runs from the chairs and tables to the heating and maintenance to the teaching materials. It seems that this expectation is not enough. If that is true, then we should not blame the schools for letting the heating burn at the expense of a teacher, no, then a choice is really made in poverty. Then it's a choice between a teacher and children who have to keep their coats in the classroom. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look further in response to these reports, even if only for the purposes of the current formation? What's really behind this? If we miss this, then this remains a concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u92	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u93	There is a rather heavy and thick report, in which many of Mr Van Meenen's questions are answered. That's what we know now. It also indicates very well what we do not know. There's something crazy in the system. Schools receive a lump sum, a lump sum per pupil which they can freely spend on staff or equipment. There is not a single shot between them; the schools are allowed to make their own choices. At the front we work with a kind of fictitious price structure from years ago. There are, of course, shifts. That these shifts are working out so that you pay a little more for a few things, I understand. The unsatisfactory thing about this system is that working with programmes of requirements per cost post does not correspond at all to the idea of lump sum financing. That's the most important recommendation Berenschot makes in the report. Berenschot says: you have to ask yourself whether these kinds of analyses really make sense. Then you have to look more broadly: is the total amount that schools receive per pupil reasonable? Can schools do it in its entirety? I note that the amount has increased year after year, even in the difficult years. Many sectors had to make savings and to find and implement efficiency measures. None of that was necessary in education. But that does not mean that we have to say afterwards for every post...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u94	This answer was too long again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u95	Can I have another one, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u97	The Secretary of State suggests that there is a high degree of freedom within the lump sum, but that is very limited. We also expect schools to teach children for a lot of hours a week. There's just got to be staff to do that. We expect everything. Schools have all kinds of legal tasks. The Secretary of State shields with degrees of freedom in the sense of "it's a bit how it's convenient." Of course it isn't. It's all obligations. The heating is an obligation, the school furniture is an obligation, teaching is an obligation. The big question that lies above is of course not whether they can slide a bit, but whether it is enough in total. That is what this report is trying to answer. I find it somewhat disappointing and I hope that the Secretary of State is prepared to look a little deeper at what is really behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u98	This was also a very long question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u99	I'm always willing to look at things, but the question is what we're going to look at more deeply. We have now done it by programme of demands, no matter how outdated and published that way of working, with the recommendation to do it differently. We have the General Court not only for secondary education, but also for p.o. to see if you can say anything about the adequacy of the funding. That report is also there. In particular, that last report shows that the question of whether the funding is sufficient is also a question of the choices you make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u100	I think this is a repeat of moves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u101	I understand that choice very well because of course you're in a split. On the one hand, the government wants to give schools the room to spend a certain budget itself, and on the other hand, we see that not all schools make the right choices. Of course, at the same time, we must consider whether the budget is adequate and recognise the importance of good participation. I am therefore very curious about the bill that is going to be sent to us. I think there might be a middle way, too. It is not the case that on the one hand we work with lumpsum and on the other hand we demand that everything should be administered and, so to speak, all receipts should be handed over to the Ministry. Maybe it's an idea to look at some sort of spending budget. Then you ask schools to actually spend a certain percentage in class.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u102	I think that is actually true of the vast majority of the money that schools receive, because that money should indeed be spent in the classroom on teachers, good furniture, a good building and mention it all. Of course, some schools sometimes make wrong choices, but we are sometimes very critical of governments. If I compare the overhead, the money that lingers in management and management, of different sectors, I dare say that the overhead in education is really low. That's what we need to control in the p.o. And give it away, because there are no people driving around in expensive lease boxes and there are no people in offices with golden cranes. That really happens in a sober and efficient way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u103	I can go with you to a large extent, but it turns out that part of the money that goes to education has not gone to sufficient staff. This is evident from the working pressure of teachers and therefore it is perhaps an idea to agree within the system of the lumpsum a certain budget or percentage that should go to support in the classroom. When I say "in class," I'm not talking about furniture, I'm talking about people, the hands that are present in class.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u104	I think that's a very difficult one. It is really very difficult to attach a certain percentage to that. I would not immediately be in favour of that. What I am in favour of, perhaps I am somewhat in favour of, Mrs Westerveld, is that we are more specific about how to use the extra money we all agree on for education. We have made extra money available over the past year and perhaps a new cabinet will do so again. We'll see! We have made agreements on this at sector level this time and it is not, therefore, just that it went to the schools. We have made real agreements with the PO Council and the VO Council as to where it should lead, but I see that this is far from getting anywhere in every school. I am very much in favour of thinking about how we can be better accountable at school and school level. I would like to say a few words about the measures relating to workload and regulation. It's not like we haven't done anything in the last few years. We have taken a number of generic measures and also a number of specific ones. In recent years we have given a broad quality impulse to teachers. We did that through the Teachers' Agenda. For school leaders and administrators, we have done so through the sectoral agreements. We have done so on the basis that professional, mature, well-educated teachers are better able to cope with work and regulatory pressure. This requires a continuous investment in these teachers. We've also done a number of specific things. Within the framework of the NOA, the Minister and I have drawn up the regulatory printing agenda with the trade unions and the sectoral councils. That agenda is currently being evaluated to determine whether it contains the right approach. One of the actions was to make an inventory of unnecessary legislation and regulations that we have all made over the past few decades and which can now be deleted. Mrs Westerveld asked: has that led to something that we are all happy about? Quite frankly, I was disappointed. This had not so much to do with a lack of willingness of parties to cooperate as with the fact that the amount of formal legislation and regulations that everyone thinks you can delete is very limited. This also shows that a great deal is behind the door: what is happening in schools themselves and what the inspection is doing or at least the effect of inspection supervision; I shall go into this in a little more detail later. Secondly, in good cooperation with the PO-Council and the VO-Council, we started working on the Doorbraakproject Education & ICT to support schools in digitalisation from 2015. Many teachers see the use of ICT as an opportunity to reduce the workload, for example because they have lost less time looking at it and using error analysis. I see very good examples of this. Thirdly, recent research shows that education suffers from self-imposed rules and administration, which I have just mentioned. For example, many administrators and school leaders, sometimes as a precaution, ask teachers to record all kinds of information in order to be prepared for a possible future visit of the inspection. Sometimes this also happens because a director of the school wants to keep a grip on what is happening at the school or in the classrooms, and it would sometimes be very welcome to give a little more air and space there. This leads to a variety of logbooks, growth documents, group plans and reports from parent interviews. If it's not on paper, you can't show it, that's the thought, and then it doesn't matter. That's really something we need to get rid of. We must get rid of the idea that everything must be recorded in schools. I have already made a number of calls here again, also because the gallery is full: if you as a teacher feel that you are doing things purely because it has to be done, it doesn't matter who owns or doesn't contribute to the real quality of your education, to the learning of students, then discuss it. Stop it, as far as I'm concerned! This is also a discussion to be held in the schools themselves. That brings us to a whole pride of things. First of all, the transfer files which Mr Bishop referred to. Of course, it's crazy; I read it in the paper this morning. But these transfer files are not required by anyone, I say in the direction of Mr Bishop. That's really a way of working that originated in schools of government. Then let me just grab the group plans. The other day I had an incredibly interesting conversation with a trite teacher, to whom I said: let me see those group plans. Big books! Luckily, I had someone from the inspection with me. I say, do we ask schools to make group plans? The answer is no. The inspection calls on schools to monitor the development of pupils and to ensure that the lessons are adapted to the development of the pupil. How you do that as a school is up to the school. The great thing was: during that same conversation there were teachers who had seen the light by now. They said, "We have departed from these things." We make something, but no longer a thick book, one A4'; it takes me two minutes a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u105	The nice thing is that there is now a laugh in the gallery, but I hope that the teachers will show the same activism that PO shows in Action towards politics, also towards their own schools. Because in the end it also comes down to a solid conversation at school: is this way of working still at times, does it lead to better education, can we change that? I am very positive when I see that there are teachers who say: something has to change, they have a good one for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr. Beertema... Just how long do you need for this part, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u107	I have a small trichea of specific questions that have been asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u108	If you formulate the answers briefly and forcefully, Members of Parliament can ask their questions at the end of this block. I suggest you move on first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u109	That's good. Mrs van den Hul asked about the reduction of the dust comb operation, which I indicated was somewhat disappointing. By the way, I am still open to anyone who says: I have found an article that does not make sense, delete it, come on! What we've found is currently being incorporated into a law. He does not come to the Chamber before the summer, but is open for internet consultation. That's a great opportunity for directors and teachers to say: hey, you missed something that should also be taken with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u110	The next item is the report (Doc.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mrs Becker asked: if there are so many misunderstandings about what schools should do from the inspection, which they do not have to do, can this not be collected and given away? We are now working on the Operation Rules Spare, helping a number of schools that may be a little skeptical. A few people just laughed at the idea that they could actually quit. Yeah, you can, but you have to just do it. There's a lot of things coming out of that operation. We ensure that they are made accessible in a brochure that goes to schools and teachers. Mr Beertema asked if we would not only enter into the conversation with the administrators but also with the teachers themselves. I think that is a very good point, if only to encourage them to go down from the bottom up. I'm looking at a way we can reach those teachers even more directly than we already do. Mr. Rog asked about the experiment with law-abiding schools. Are there any good lessons coming out of that? It may well be that some of the rules that we thought were necessary are superfluous. But I don't think we're in a phase with that experiment to spread it all over education right now. Why? Because it is often also about rules that go even further than the rules in the comb operation that we are about to delete. For example, it is also about teaching time. If we're gonna let that go, you really need to know what you're getting into. That's why we're doing it first at a number of schools that are doing very well. Mrs Westerveld asked about the maximum responsibility burden that the inspection should give to the schools. The inspection, especially in the new inspection supervision, actually doesn't want schools to do anything extra for a visit to the inspection. The inspection simply wants to have an insight into what schools are already doing, with nothing on top of it. There is always a need for schools to do the most important things that benefit their education, that make it better, and that they should not do things because they have to do the inspection. Mrs Becker, and I also believe Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, asked about the new inspection policy. Is this going to reduce the perceived workload? I'm a little skeptical about that. If we all note that a lot of the rules ultimately come from the schools themselves, it will not be one, two, three solved as of 1 August if the new inspection supervision starts. There's a lot going on right now. There may be more within inspection supervision. But schools must act themselves and look more critically at their own internal working methods and administrative procedures. This also applies to appropriate education. Much has been said about this, for example that appropriate education would lead to a lot of extra children with care in the classroom. I'm a little more nuanced in that, because if you look at the numbers of shifts from special education to regular education, it's not that bad in itself. However, there is a lot of paperwork attached to it. This is also the case with the introduction of appropriate education, the requirements for cooperation on the way in which they are to organise procedures, being extremely light. Those partnerships are not public bodies either, they are the administrations themselves. So the boards themselves should have the task of seeing if they can do it more simply. They should agree among themselves on whether they can work better with formats. After all, they don't all have to reinvent the wheel. I would like to discuss this again, including with the PO Council and the VO Council, as I say to Mr Beertema. Maybe on top of that, I can give you one more thing. What we are doing now with Operation Rules Spare is interesting. We are then in schools that are skeptical, but which we help to see that things can be different. I would also like to do this with a number of collaborations in a subsequent phase, a kind of Operation Rules Spare 2.0, to see if we can make a bit of a clean ship there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u112	The Secretary of State says all very good things as far as I'm concerned. I also referred to this in my first term and congratulated him. I find it symptomatic that the audience really laughs when he gives a very good example of a school that does very well with that one A4's, because they find it almost unbelievable. But it is, ladies and gentlemen. It's your own directors who put it all on you, not the inspectors and not the Secretary of State. And you don't have to. That's what I want to give all these people. These people know now. They're going to their schools with that message. Secretary of State, you have already made a commitment that you will consider how to involve the teachers in another way. However, I would like to go a little more concrete on that. It's unusual; I understand that. But make a nice brochure, which Mrs Becker of the VVD also talked about, and just send it to the teachers. Then you're sure it'll land. Only then can the conversation get started. That seems like a really valuable thing to meet today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u113	The answer can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u114	In essence, I'm going along with this. There is simply the practical point that we do not have the addresses of teachers. This has to do with privacy, also because we are not their employer. But the essence is that we want the teachers to know exactly what they should and should not do, where there is room and where they can discuss at their school. I'm gonna make sure that lands eventually.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u115	But that is, of course, a practical objection. The schools themselves, the employers, do have these addresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u116	We're gonna come up with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u117	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u118	The Secretary of State has indeed raised a tip of the veil about the role of the inspection. I think we can see that there is still some noise. Is the inspection part of the problem or part of the solution? Maybe she's both. I would ask the Secretary of State to come back to this, perhaps in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u119	We come at regular intervals to discuss the progress of the control pressure operation. Maybe I can take it in there. I think it is a matter of constant attention. There can and can be a lot in schools. It's too easy to say: boys, it's possible; figure it all out. I also put my hand in my own bosom. I think sometimes it has to do with the fact that in the past the inspection has worked in an old-fashioned way. I think that also counts very much in the way schools experience it now. There's some sort of fear of a culture of accountability, where you need to keep your papers in order. I hear very good news about the new inspection supervision, which can help with that. I, along with the Minister, have also asked the inspection again to do more with communication. I said: if we want this to land in the classes, in the schools and in the teachers, we may have to run twice as fast to tell that story over and over again, to shine; if we ourselves get tired of our own words, it might land once. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna go on until eventually it's said in all the schools: okay, we believe it; we're gonna change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u120	A very large part of this workload of teachers is indeed due to the administration, all letters and investigations show. School boards often point to the inspection and say it should be from the inspection. That is why there are often many more files and papers on the table than is actually necessary. I asked earlier whether we could agree on some sort of maximum responsibility, where the inspection says that she wants a maximum of so many A4s or so many words. In fact, the Secretary of State says that schools should not administer more than is necessary now. That's kind of weedy, but we all know what's causing this. I would therefore ask you once again to consider whether there can be clear guidelines. It is good that there will be better communication, but can we also make clear guidelines that indicate what is needed and what is not needed, preferably just in number of words or documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u121	I'd like to do that. Maybe I can take it with me in the brochure we were just talking about. In it we put what needs to be done, because some things have to be done. It says in the law that a primary school must work with an apprenticeship follow-up system. But it doesn't say what apprenticeship tracking system that should be. It doesn't say anything about taking all the tests. The formal requirements are very open. The inspection wants schools to follow the development of pupils. I think that's what schools and teachers want. If that happens in a good way and if the teacher has a good story, the inspector says: good story! So my advice to schools is: don't do anything extra pure and just because you get a visit from the inspection, but just show what you've done to follow the students. I'm a little more reluctant to say that it has to be on a maximum of so many A4s, because if the inspection says that a group plan can cover up to four A4s, I'm sure a lot of schools that are going to complete four A4s, while maybe it can also be on one A4's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u122	I understand very well what the Secretary of State says, but schools are now afraid to miss something. If schools know that the inspection is coming, they prefer to describe everything rather than keep it as short and concise as possible. Would it perhaps be an idea to lay down a maximum directive which states that schools should do it in about so many words and so many documents?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u123	If you create such a brochure, you could give some good examples and take these things with you. We want schools to grow up in this and have more self-confidence. If, as a government or as an inspection, you add all kinds of formal requirements to that, the question is whether you grow that self-confidence or whether you make it too easy for the schools again. I want them to think about it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u124	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u125	A lot has been said about the salary. I won't dwell too long. There has been talk of the pay gap between the p.o. and the vo. Yeah, there are differences. On the basis of the average in the vo, these are partly explained by the differences between first and second degrees, but there are also differences between second degrees. It also sometimes has to do with the function gravity. For the last time, the Covenant LeerKracht looked at the function gravity. We have been asked whether these differences can be overcome. In theory, that's possible. In recent years, for example, for the public sector, after a long zero line, we have increased wages a little longer and a little faster. That also led to the p.o. to an increase in wages of about 6%. This is really up to another cabinet. The social partners will then have to negotiate this at the collective bargaining table. We cannot now decide that we should equalize salaries, regardless of whether that is desirable. I think we should look very closely at career paths. I've said that before. I believe that the development perspective in primary education is very limited. It is also a bit of a thorn in my eye what happens to the space we have given for that development with for example the function mix. In the vo that space is neatly filled in, but in the p.o. Not yet. I would also like to make an appeal to that effect. I understand that the trade unions with PO in Action are also looking critically at the employers. That would be good. Because that space is already there. Mr. Rog asked how much money was in the bank. That relationship is very difficult to establish. It also differs from school to school. Some schools are doing very well within the agreements made, while others are lagging behind. The figures on how much money is in the bank are only available at sector level. I think it is a very good development that discussions are taking place within schools on the basis of their own financial statements, for example in participation councils. I come to a number of other issues that are on the same collective agreement table. Mr Bruins asked about the duration of the holiday. In the collective agreement, the social partners also agree on working hours and leave. Typical for education is that you have a lot of holidays, but therefore there is a lot of work to be done between those holidays. You can, of course, see if you can organize that in another way. Again, we do not arrange that from The Hague. It really is on the table of employers and employees. The same applies to the super-legal WW. Mr Rog asked whether steps were being taken in this area. The answer to that is yes. In all sectors of education, the social partners have reduced the level of unemployment benefit. This has been done as a result of the introduction of the legal transition fee after dismissal. He asked whether progress is being made in the area of WWW and whether we have figures on how many classes have been sent home as a result. We don't have those numbers. The WWZ, like the three-month time-out, is really something that the social partners have to agree on at the collective bargaining table, at least within the law as it is now. Then I come to a number of very brief points that have been raised which may affect experienced work pressure. That's the group size for starters. Mr Bishop asked if the average group size is not a very bad indicator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u126	Before you go any further. You're starting your last part now. However, Mr Kwint had another question on the previous point: salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u127	Those were quite a few, the previous points. But indeed, I have a question about salaries. Secretary of State, I'm not going to ask you if you could, because, as you rightly said, anything can happen. I am not going to ask you whether you are going to do it, because I have the feeling that I can guess the answer to that question. On the basis of your experience as Secretary of State for Education, for some years now, would you find it logical if there was anything about the difference in pay between p.o. If that difference were to be reduced or, in the long term, completely eliminated, would it change?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u128	Certainly not that last one. I think there are arguments for differences in remuneration. Sometimes that's got to do with heaviness. You're not just looking at education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u129	I would ask you, however, to keep your emotions under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u130	You don't just look at the training people have received. A class of teenagers, kids who are a little older, that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u131	Before you go any further, Secretary of State. I understand very well that the emotions in the public gallery are sometimes high, but it is unusual for you to express your approval or disapproval in any way. Those are kind of the rules in this house. So try to hold back a little bit. I look like a teacher...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u132	The question was if I wanted to close the hole. I have just said that I do not believe in generic measures. Let's say the question is what I'd like to do in the future. I would like to look at the prospect of growth and the possibilities of rewarding good teachers a little more, if, for example, they take on heavier tasks or if they specialize, rather than generally making an increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u133	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u134	First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr President. I think you have just proved that, even at a later age, you can still control a group of students very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u135	"At a later age." What a compliment! It's okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u136	My question was not so much whether there are differences between p.o. and vo. They are obvious: age and difference between subjects and more generic are responsible for learning all kinds of things. My question is more as to why you think these differences justify that difference in remuneration, Secretary of State. Yeah, it's two different functions, but what would make that one function heavier than the other? I still don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u137	Then a lot of things get looked at. I have just explained that there is a whole system that looks at function gravity. For the last time, the Action Plan "LeerKracht" has done so. It also looks at the scaling-up, the task package and the responsibilities that come with it. That's a lot of shit. I do not think it is such a beneficial way of constantly comparing professions and then asking why it is less than the other and why it deserves otherwise. Then you're gonna p.o. There are also differences in these sectors. Some of them have been objectified and some of them have also grown. If, in a manner of speaking, we were to say today that we are going to tie it up and you are going to have two separate collective agreements, I am sure that there will be real differences in ten years' time. So I find it too easy to say: well, teachers earn more and p.o. teachers should earn the same as for teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u138	I can go a long way with the Secretary of State if he says he's not in favour of a generic measure. But the problem is experienced and has not yet been fully addressed. Why is there such a big difference now? I believe that I was not in the Lower House at the time, and that my colleague Pieter Duisenberg asked for a letter about the wage building before the summer. In that letter, can the Secretary of State comment again on the difference and whether that does not deserve further action in any way? Whether you want to do that generic or not, you have to look at it. Can we really expect that letter about this difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u139	That letter's coming your way. I should also like to address this specific point. It was also about the opportunities for growth that exist. I think that is a more urgent point in the p.o. You're very fast at the end of your development, even financially than you're lifting up the entire payroll building. Then very briefly a number of points that have been mentioned. Mr Bishop asked if the group size is a good indicator. Yes and no. That's a nasty answer. I think it is good that we look at the group size, because then we can see at system level whether the classes in the Netherlands are getting bigger. You're holding the finger on the wrist. It is not good to use group size as a kind of benchmark, to say to all schools: 23 is average, so there is no problem. There are really problems with large classes in some schools, where a lot of work pressure is experienced. But the question is whether you can come up with a smart indicator to keep track of this huge diversity from The Hague. For me, that is why I have always said that the discussion on class size should be conducted mainly in the schools themselves. I am not in favour of maximisation or of Hague standards. Give schools enough money to set up reasonable classes. Whether they make classes slightly larger with, for example, a little more space for support staff or that they make classes slightly smaller, without room for support staff, these are discussions that can be held there. Mrs van den Hul asked whether we could not gradually reduce time. I find that very difficult. That is, of course, also a question of money. Anything's possible. Her predecessor tabled a motion on this subject together with Mr Van Meenen. My big objection was always: you can want to, but then you have to put the money on the table. We have now started doing this on a very small scale within the framework of the Equal Opportunities Action Programme in a number of disadvantaged schools. We've allocated a small budget to see if it pays off and, if so, what. Perhaps we can learn some good lessons from that. Mrs Westerveld asked what we are actually doing about the shortage of teachers. We're working on a few things. We increase the entry rate by, for example, attracting more students to the courses. We're also looking at lateral flow. I very much believe in that. And we're working very hard on schools and employers in the regions to see what's going on with part-timers. In primary education there is an incredible amount of space, if employees are willing to work a little more. Then you could overcome a very large part of the shortage of teachers. There are also quiet reserves, people who have missed the boat lately and are now in the WW, but have a competence. Let's use those reserves. These are specific things that we are now looking at at regional level. In autumn 2017, we will report to the Chamber on the concrete results that have been achieved. Mr Bruins then asked about the regional employment list. That's something that's covered by SZW. I have been told that this arrangement runs until the end of the year at the latest, but that it is also virtually exhausted. The budget for training vouchers for the target economy is exhausted. This means that at present only vouchers are provided to ex-workers in the long-term care sector. It will be up to the next cabinet to see if it wants to give a second round to this. Then I come to the cost of the side-inflow scheme. That is what we are looking at specifically. I shall come back to this in the progress report that I have just referred to by Mrs Westerveld. We look very widely at all the barriers experienced to start work as a side-intromer, including the cost coverage of that subsidy scheme. I'm closing up. In any case, we must all take all the signs of work pressure incredibly seriously. They will require an approach from all of us in the near future, both from the political point of view and from the schools themselves. You can't fix that from today to tomorrow. It takes time. That's what the practice proves. It is also a process of trust in professionalism and sometimes also a process of letting go at school level. Let us give that confidence to all teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u140	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I assume there's a need for a second term. Then that's what we're gonna do. I shall begin with Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is one minute and twenty seconds including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u141	That's a surprise, Mr. Chairman. When I got there, there was two minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u142	It's a third. Are you interrupting already, Mr. Van Meenen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u143	That's rap!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u144	I have more of a point of order. Maybe that 1 minute and 20 seconds was already known, but that's pretty unusual anyway. Usually it's two minutes, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u145	No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u146	I believe that we have been extremely restrained by interruptions. Yes, colleagues; let me put it this way. I would argue that we should make it two minutes. I will make very limited use of that, but I am sure Mr Kwint would like to say something more than just a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u147	How many motions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u148	I don't have one, but I do have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'll just do my best, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u150	No, we are talking about a third, and I understand your message, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u151	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly in a general sense: I am standing here with a slightly hungovery feeling. As I said in the debate: I did not expect parties in negotiations to take extremely large steps, but shorter than Mr Van Meenen put it, I cannot. When I asked him what we could do today, he said nothing. For the time being, I refuse to accept that. I believe that the answer given by the Secretary of State easily reduces the enormous problem of workload in schools to the error of school administration, in that they impose unnecessary rules. I immediately believe that this is also a problem in schools, but that is not the whole problem. Secretary of State Dekker was right to say he's a missionary. That means he can't take too big a step. We in the Chamber are not. That is why I have the next three motions, one of which is about wages; that will not surprise you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that the first option removes the lowest salary scale in primary education as it does not take account of the important and responsible work of teachers in primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-251]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u152	Then I have a second motion, which really does not cost anything at all but could be an important step towards, if there is a cabinet in the future, possibly more support in the classroom. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in close consultation with teachers, to draw up a plan aimed at understanding the costs of substantially increasing the number of class assistants and working towards at least one janitor at each school and sharing the results with the Chamber before 1 September 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-252]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u153	Part of the debate was about lump sum funding. Apart from the cabinet, the Chamber itself is also in the process of carrying out an investigation, partly on the basis of the Duisenberg motion. That motion has forced us to look for alternatives within the lumpsum. I would say: expand that a little bit; dare to look for solutions outside the lumpsum. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a preparatory group of the previous Lower House has considered alternatives to or next to the lumpsum;]] [[Whereas a new committee should decide on the recommendations made;]] [[Whereas the alternative to paying national salaries for teaching staff by means of a national collective agreement is not yet being considered as an option;]] [[expresses its wish to continue with the preparatory group's recommendations as soon as possible and not to exclude any alternative option for the lumpsum,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-253]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u154	Thank you. And keep up the good work!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u155	Thank you. I see that you are already running away, Mr Kwint, but Mr Van Meenen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u156	I'd like to let him walk. I have a question about the first two motions. I warned you about that, and here they come. We need to scrap L.A. scale and we need a lot more hands in class. These are all brilliant goals, but does Mr Kwint have any cover for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u157	Then Mr Van Meenen did not properly understand my second motion. It merely calls for dialogue with teachers and teaching staff in order to identify what it would cost. So it's just an investigation. It is an extremely reluctant motion in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u158	We know that a long time ago. Read the CPB report; it's all in there neatly. Well, I guess I'll bring up the first motion. The discussion was just about 400 to 500 million or maybe over 1 billion; I have no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u159	We are not going to repeat that, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u160	Where's the cover for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u161	In my view, this is only going to cost money towards the forthcoming collective bargaining. So we still have some time to take cover for this together. I would like to say "from the lumpsum primary education" if that means that D66 will vote in favour next Tuesday. Excellent! I'd love to. Then that is the cover here. But if Mr Van Meenen proposes a different coverage, I would like to hear it before the votes and then we will agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u162	Indeed, Mr Kwint does not know how to cover what he is promising to the teachers here today. That's pretty cheap. I found the same thing in committee when we talked about the question of what the educational money is spent on. As Members of Parliament, we have several opportunities to do so. For example, we can be rapporteur for the committee so that we can really get involved in the budget and see where the money is going. I assume that Mr Kwint will sign up at the next procedural meeting to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u163	I'm a little confused. In the first interruption I was told that the proposal is too expensive and now it is suddenly very cheap. I find that confusing. I want to dive into a budget with love, but I believe that part of the conclusion that we have come together here today was that the budget is not enough to tell exactly where the money is going. You can dive into it with a whole committee, but if it's not in the budget, we're not gonna figure it out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u164	What matters to me, Mr Kwint, and I ask for your response, is that you stand here today in front of a lecturer's room and say that the SP is going to arrange for extra money to be provided, when you have allocated zero euro in your election programme. You do not give them at home when we ask them in committee who wants to go into the budget on behalf of the committee. In the end, it's about how the education money is spent. I think there is a lot of information in the budget and we could ask for more information. I'm asking you to add butter to the fish. I don't just want to hear great stories here. Come with cover and register in committee as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u165	I have already said that I am open to proposals and that, as far as I am concerned, coverage could come out of primary education if that means that it can count on your support. If you have any other suggestions, I'd be happy to hear them. For the rest, I can assume that everyone in the Education Committee will be diving into the Education budget when it comes out. That is what we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the examination of the lumpsum. We would like to see a shot in the face between human and material compensation. Can we still do that? The Secretary of State has said that there is no free beer, but we consider this momentum important and want to underline it by means of the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas staff in primary education earn up to 30% less than those in secondary education;]] [[Whereas this undermines the quality and importance of good primary education, given the perceived workload and the expected shortage of primary school teachers;]] [[points out that the gap in the level of salary between primary and secondary education needs to be substantially reduced by means of a roadmap,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-254]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u167	Mr. Chairman. Today we have not necessarily found solutions to the workload and the shortage of teachers that go hand in hand. However, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that we have come a few steps closer, because there are a number of measures that can at least reduce the administrative burden. We are also looking forward to the legislative proposal to increase participation rights in financial policy. I am also very curious about the brochure from the inspection that is coming. We very much support some of the measures mentioned by the Secretary of State in the letters sent to us in February and yesterday, but we believe that it can be worked out in a more concrete way. That is why I would like to table a motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Secretary of State previously indicated, at the request of the House of Representatives, the measures taken to combat the shortage of teachers and to reduce the burden of regulation and work;]] [[Whereas these letters are listed on the basis of the current measures and it is unclear what actual investments are being made and a lack of evaluation of the results of these ongoing measures;]] [[calls on the Government to further develop a plan of action including measures taken to reduce the workload, which parties are responsible for implementation, expected revenues and a clear overview of the costs of the measures;]] [[calls on the Government, after one year, to identify and inform the Chamber of the effects of the current measures on the workload and shortage of teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-255]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr. Chairman. Teachers deserve appreciation; that is what I started my speech today, and I would like to repeat that. In the discussion on salaries, which some of us are trying to conduct here, this can happen under snow. The picture may arise that other parties, who are not proposing it today, would not consider it important. Unfortunately, we cannot debate this today. Contrary to what some people have said, that does not mean that we cannot mean anything. We can continue to reduce the workload in education. We can do that by continuing with what the Secretary of State is already doing: the Operation Rules Spare. I would also like to thank him for his commitment to produce a brochure which makes it very clear to teachers what needs to be done from The Hague so that this discussion can be conducted in a good way at every school. I also think that we should continue with the success of Broadening Rules, and broaden that. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Operation Rules encourages Spare schools and gives the opportunity to learn from good schools how to avoid unnecessary paperwork;]] [[Whereas this operation is now being carried out in a limited number of schools and deserves a broader follow-up;]] [[Whereas this should also include the impact of appropriate education on the experienced workload;]] [[calls on the government, with Operation Rules Spare 2.0, to provide much more schools and partnerships to learn from good examples of how to reduce the workload for teachers, and to pay explicit attention to the impact of appropriate education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Becker. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-256]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. It is good that he has pointed out that we have a very good and efficient education system, but still. If I see that the hourly wage of a primary school teacher falls far short of the average of HBO-educated, the funding per pupil in primary education remains below the EOCD average and the material maintenance of schools has cost for years more than the target amounts used for this in recent years, I cannot escape the impression that, despite investments in recent years, we still want to get a dime in primary education. I can make the difference in salary between p.o. And I really don't want to explain it, despite what the Secretary of State said. I think that dates back to the time when the kids were sitting very neatly with their hands over each other. The lessons in primary education have become extremely complex, also with the whole development towards inclusive education. It's quite a job. Primary school teachers should just get a better salary than they get now. I hope that the riot that has caused PO in Action in the next cabinet and in the next collective agreement will really lead to more money, more salary and fewer rules and to teachers saying no to pointless paperwork, and thus to less workload.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u170	Mr. Chairman. Two points were asked: provide a fair salary and reduce the workload. That was the call of the initiators of the manifesto "Five for twelve: primary education deserves more!" from PO in Action. During this debate we have at least become clear that the distance between the reality of the government and the reality of the field is enormous. If we say that we have faith in the teacher, should we at least take these people's call seriously? That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a group of more than 37,000 primary school teachers under the name PO in Action has drawn up a manifesto with improvement points for primary education;]] [[points out that it shares the sense of urgency and need for significant improvements in the area of teacher's salary and workload;]] [[therefore embraces the manifesto of PO in Action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-257]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u171	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive answer to our questions. I welcome his commitment to call on teaching staff to deal much more assertively with executives who impose all kinds of regulatory pressure. One more thing: I fundamentally disagree with the Secretary of State when it comes to the pay scales, the workload, the attractiveness of the teacher's profession and the shortage of teachers. Those are really urgent issues that are going to control the education agenda. They are also very closely linked. The appeal's attractiveness will be greatly improved if the lowest salary scale L.A. disappears. It also exists only in primary education. Maintaining them is not justified because both types of education require HBO training and require approximately the same heavy competences for both types of schools. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both primary and secondary teachers have completed HBO training, except for exceptions;]] [[noting that similar competences are required for both types of education;]] [[noting that research has shown that the growth in expenditure per pupil (1.9% per year between 1998 and 2012) has resulted in a significant growth of non-educational staff, but not in smaller classes, more teachers or higher salaries;]] [[calls on the Government to halt the growth of staff not employed in the primary process of education in p.o., vo and ho, to reduce this number of non-educational staff and to use the funds released to abolish the lowest salary scale for primary school teachers LA, so that they will now fall into the LB pay scale as well as second-level teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-258]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u172	I would like to make it very clear that janitors and class assistants are indeed part of the primary process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u173	Mr Rog was just about to say something about that, but he doesn't have to anymore. Mr Van Meenen has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr. Chairman. The demands of PO in Action are fully justified and any attempt to do anything about it, such as those of the Secretary of State when he said that it works in the p.o. is simpler than in the box. As a former teacher, I say "that's not right" and I also say it as a granddaughter's grandfather in puberty. Then you already know it's pretty tricky, especially when there's 30 in a class. So my first observation is that they are legitimate demands. Another thing is: to identify the problem is not to solve the problem. I have been quite clear about that today. There are limited possibilities and that is why I have resisted the illusion that some people are awakening that we are going to resolve this with a few motions. It is important to recognise that there are major problems and that almost all parties have done so. We know that the maximum must be done, but our hands are tied today at least mine and that of some others because we are having this same conversation at the formation table. I wanted to point that out. Finally, I would like to express my deep appreciation for all those teachers involved in PO in Action. It's been quiet in education for far too long. It seemed like there was a lack of self-awareness. This is a sign that education is alive. Keep doing that and keep us focused. I wish you all a lot of pleasure with it anyway, despite everything, most beautiful profession in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u175	You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u176	Let's give it up a little. I now give the floor to Mr Rog on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr. Chairman. Frankly, I was afraid that this would be an extremely unsatisfactory debate, because we now have to make choices at another table which could indeed affect the workload in education and therefore also in primary education and could have a positive impact. I've had to change my mind. It has been a relevant debate and it is very good that we are not just looking at ourselves. We do that and the CDA has taken the initiative several times over the past period to limit the role of the inspection, influence, testing madness and all obligations from The Hague. This is important, but we also want to strengthen self-awareness in the sector. It's time to get up when it's due from the school. I think that call is justified. I support the Secretary of State in that appeal: get up, stop doing unnecessary things. We have previously called for the pay aspect to be taken into account in a general discussion. I would like to receive confirmation from the Secretary of State that he is coming up with an explanation of the difference that has arisen and whether this relates to tasks, powers and responsibilities. Eventually it is function rating systems that lead to scaling up. I'd like to get a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u178	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for his explanation today and all those present for their presence. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is structural overtime in primary education, that absenteeism is high and still rising and that the number of burn-outs is nowhere as high as there;]] [[Whereas excessive workload is not only bad for teachers themselves, but also for the quality of education offered to children in primary schools;]] [[Considers that our ambition still has to be to make education in the Netherlands one of the world's top five;]] [[Whereas the teaching task of full-time teachers is an important factor in the workload they experience;]] [[calls on the Government to gradually reduce the teaching task of full-time teachers to a maximum of 20 hours per week,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-259]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u179	Almost a year ago, D66 and the Labour Party jointly tabled a motion containing this content. That motion made it, too. After that, there was a huge discussion about how this costs money. We acknowledge that, and we both have that in our programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u180	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u181	I ask the Labour Party what exactly is the cover for this proposal. What is the idea of establishing once again that this must be done? What does it add?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u182	For the purposes of coverage, I would refer Mr Van Meenen to the transfer of our electoral programme, which clearly indicates how and where we want to invest in education. Those aren't blanks. We are allocating an additional 1 800 million to additional teaching staff, 500 million to a reduction in the number of hours, 700 million to an increase in salary, including 400 million for p.o. This can be read in the accounts of our budget. Why now? The urgency as also marked by the manifesto of PO in Action, and the importance of taking first steps bring me to tabling this motion at this time. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a shortage of teachers in the p.o. and vo and that important reasons are the dreaded workload and low salary prospects for teachers;]] [[Considering that this deficit is expected to only increase and that this further contributes significantly to teachers' workload because they have to work hard for too little pay;]] [[noting that a teacher in the p.o. earns significantly less than a teacher in vo, which further reduces the attractiveness of working in primary education and the above mentioned shortage of teachers;]] [[Notes that there appears to be broad consensus that work pressure among teachers needs to be addressed and that provision of new teachers can be increased, inter alia, by improving teachers' salary;]] [[Considers that it is important to make funds available in the forthcoming Education budget to take a first step in improving teachers' working conditions, starting with the backlog of teachers in the p.o. to have, and subsequently to be phased in and to make wider use of, further improvement of the remuneration conditions for teachers;]] [[Calls on the Government to clarify, prior to the 2018 General Reviews, how much money could and should be made available for a first phase, in order to improve the salary position of teachers in the p.o. and thus the attractiveness of the teacher's profession in general,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27923-260]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u183	Where do I start? I believe that the Labour Party has been responsible for Dutch education policy for four and a half years. The PvdA has delivered the minister for four and a half years and now the new spokesperson is talking people to the mouth in a way that the dogs don't like. Then she comes up with the question of how to settle it in the next budget. Why is Mrs Van den Hul not going to take care of this in the Spring Paper? That's what she would do if it was really her to do the outcomes and not just what she says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u184	The PvdA stood and stands for the teachers. It was in the past. For example, Minister Plasterk, as Minister of Education with Action Plan LeerKracht, has kicked off important initiatives. Since 2014 we have ensured that starting teachers get more hours for preparation and intervision. In 2015 and last year our spokesperson Ypma in the Chamber sounded the alarm clock about the administrative burden and rules. There is also the motion that we tabled together with D66; it has just been referred to. At the end of last year, the Action Plan was launched as a lecturer, focusing on reward, workload, quality and participation. With all due respect, but we have quite a track record on this file. To underline this, and because we still recognise that importance, I have tabled this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u185	What's happened is all very blessed to me. Mrs van den Hul says that things are not right now and that this needs to be arranged, but she is insanely referring to a next cabinet for that. I am not interested in what her predecessors have done for a moment, because I make the point that she is now saying that it is all wrong and not good and that there is a lot more money to everything and something, but that she does not regulate it. Take care of that in the spring note! That's my point. Why doesn't the Labour Party do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u186	I do not think Mr Rog heard me right. I have also said that I am very pleased with the progress that has been made. I also thanked the Secretary of State for that, because a lot has happened. There has been investment in teachers' salaries: they have been taken off the mark at a time when it was economically disappointing. Now the economic tide is better, and that is why there is a better context for taking an extra step towards improving the points we have raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u187	Nevertheless, the pressing question remains as to why the PvdA does not deal with this in the spring note through its own minister, even if it is outgoing. That is a question I would very much like an answer to, but I am not the one who asked the question. I would like to leave the debate to Mr Rog. Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for the proper answer to the questions. I was a little opposed to this debate because you quickly come into an atmosphere to capture flies from each other. I think that the profit of this debate is, in any case, that it has become clear that it is widely recognised that we have a substantial problem here. There is much to do in this area when it comes to workload and salaries. We need to take a serious look at that. What has also made this debate clear is that there are no easy solutions. It is a complex of interlocking factors and you cannot solve that problem by highlighting one factor, such as salaries or workload. I am therefore very pleased with the Secretary of State's undertaking to look again at the possibility of deleting things that have been tapped into work in education and which sometimes make the progress of work difficult. I believe that there is a need for strong maintenance in this respect, both towards the teachers and the school management and the formal regulations. As far as the remuneration is concerned, I do not have a solution for this either at the moment, but I would like to invite the Secretary of State to provide, where possible, in the context of the formation that is taking place, with matters which will enable us to take steps on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u188	Thank you. I see that the Secretary of State can respond directly to the questions and motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u189	Mr. Chairman. We have two questions and three motions, so as far as I am concerned, we can do so quickly. I will start with Mr Rog's question to give a little more insight into the differences between p.o. and vo. That's what's in the promised letter. I see there's a lot of discussion about that. I can also see the reactions in the gallery. What I wanted to say is that the differences are not random. They were once based on job evaluation systems, which Mr Rog also mentioned. Then you can see that, on the basis of developments and differences in collective agreements, this is sometimes growing somewhat towards each other; in this case, it may have grown slightly apart. So they don't come all the way out of the sky. I will go into more detail in the letter. Mrs. Van Brenk asked if we could investigate whether there could be a shot between equipment and personnel. I don't feel anything like that. We're looking at improvements to the lumpsum. If you're gonna take those bulkheads, it's not a lump sum anymore. That's not what I'm here for. Then there's the motions. I'll start with the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). That motion is uncovered, so I'm gonna advise her. The motion in part No. Mr Kwint's 252 concerns the substantial increase in the number of class assistants and the question of what it would cost. For me, this kind of thing only makes sense if you're willing to pay for it. There's no point in making some kind of theoretical calculation exercises. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u190	I would have written him down so weakly! The idea is that you should talk to the field of work about what they might consider desirable and what they think they need additional support. Then you can just map out what it would cost, so that we, sufficiently equipped with all that information, can make a decision whether it is worth it to us or not. I am not already asking you to prevent me from knowing how much money you have so that you can spend on it in the future. Just along with the education in conversation: what do you think you need to do about that workload? Then back to the room. Then the Chamber can decide. You can also make a proposal yourself, or perhaps your successor, who knows. Simple investigation, that's all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u191	Those are theoretical exercises, a bit of the doomsday story. I'm gonna talk about what one needs and then come up with an account. The point is that you must be politically prepared to say: I think that an additional 100 million should be allocated to educational support staff. That's great. You'll put on big pants, and you'll have to tell me where you're getting it. Then we can vote on it. But I don't feel for this kind of math exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u192	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u193	If we have to judge whether we want something or not, is it useful that we know in advance what it costs and whether the field is waiting for it at all? I'd like to say, I'm just saying, I'm spending $2 million on class assistants. But then when the whole field of education says that they would have preferred janitors for that money, who are we doing it for? I mean, the demand for information in consultation with the educational field isn't so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u194	If Mr Kwint is in need of this, I would say go talk to the field of education himself. Why don't you go ask them? When I start such conversations and ask how many teaching assistants they want and how many janitors, I think they will say: preferably as many as possible. So the question you are asking me, to ask what is needed, is not a real question. As I said earlier: if I look at the funding of schools, I think that schools should be able to do so, even if it is not fat. If you think that it is not and that there should be more money, you should put forward a proposal for it. We're going to have another budget discussion later. You're free to go. Mr. Chairman. I also advise against Mr Kwint's third motion. We are still waiting for the recommendations made. Moreover, the motion calls for something that I am not in favour of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u195	Short response, Mr. Kwint. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u196	Yes, very briefly. I like it or, in fact, I do not like it at all that the Secretary of State recommends the motion, but the motion was an appeal to the Chamber to make a ruling. So this pre-advisation is somewhat outside the jurisdiction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u197	You're asking me what my advice would be. Here's my advice: I dissuade the adoption of the motion. In the end, it is up to the Chamber to vote on it. The Van Brenn/Van den Hul motion, in part No. 254, is also a motion without cover. That's why I'm telling her off. I am a bit struggling with Mrs Westerveld's motion, in part No. 255. I don't know if there's any point in making a lot of plans right now. In fact, Mrs Westerveld is asking for smarter, more concrete objectives. These could well be the result of two things: partly perhaps the outcome of the cabinet formation, if it turns out that, on top of what the current cabinet has done, we want to do some extra things on a number of points, and partly the outcome of the discussions that I and the minister are still having with the social partners about where we see space and how we are going to deal with it together. I think we can do that before, in the autumn. Perhaps with this commitment Mrs Westerveld is prepared to withdraw the motion. 'Cause she's really asking for new plans to be made right now, and I wouldn't be for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u198	Yes. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u199	I would like to give a brief explanation. It is clearly not about making good plans. We received two letters, one from February and yesterday's letter. It contains a number of plans to reduce the shortage of teachers and to reduce the workload. All good plans, according to my group. However, we still lack a concrete plan of action. Who's gonna do what? What do we expect from all these loose good plans out there? What are the costs of all these plans, if any? And then we want an evaluation. So explicitly no new policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u200	If I promise that we will come up with the implementation in the autumn, at the next progress report, and that I will process all of this, you may be prepared to withdraw this motion. Because this motion is really asking for a new plan, and it's hard for me to get out of my way. However, you now have my promise in your pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u201	The Minister's talking about "repeal," but you can also hold the motion, Mrs Westerveld. But that's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u202	Or maybe hold on. If then you are not satisfied, you can...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u203	The time until Tuesday that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u204	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u205	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (27923, No. 255), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 255/1999. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u206	In her motion, Mrs Becker asks for item No. 256 to sort of a next phase in Operation Rules Spare. I'm quite excited about what it's done so far. So I can get out of this. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I shall then come to the Kuzu motion on part No. 257. This motion also contains a lot of wishes without cover. So I'm gonna dissuade her. Mr Bertema's motion on item No. 258 I'm going to dissuade. The assumption is that there has been a lot of money in recent times in the expansion of administrative offices. We should change that according to this motion. Then we're really fighting windmills. I really do not have the impression that the overhead has increased enormously. Recent studies on the size of the overhead do not show that either. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u207	Of course, I expected the Secretary of State to say this. I agree with him that there is in the p.o. huge steps have been taken in the 80/20 distribution that we have talked about very often here. That's pretty much realized. But in the mbo and vo, and especially the h.o., that is far from being realized. As far as I am concerned, there is still a lot of money to be raised. So perhaps the Secretary of State can think about it again and make a nice state-secretary gesture at the time of the separation of the day, just before he leaves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u208	As tempting as Mr Bertema's flattery may sound, I do not think my judgment on this motion is going to change. He also points out that things are still different in the country; I honestly think that that is really not so bad. Again, the funding in the p.o. And vo is sufficient in my view, but it's not like there's huge space to do crazy things with it. I see that the vast majority of drivers deal with this in a very honest way and do not do anything crazy. Mrs van den Hul's motion on item No. 259 I'm going to dissuade. She looks a bit like a motion that has been tabled before, but I also didn't recommend it because of the lack of coverage. That is therefore consistent. Finally, there is the Van den Hul/Van Brenn motion on part No. 260. I'd advise against that, too. I will not go over the debate that has not been heard at the Interrupt Microphone all over again. The government, perhaps a new cabinet, is making a rich budget for 2018. Of course, everyone in this house will be free to table an amendment to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u209	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-9.u210	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and, in particular, the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate in a different way. Of course, I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament.
