ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Speaking time on this subject has been negotiated for a long time and six minutes per political group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the Brexit. It is a unique thing for a Member State to leave the Union. This is bad for Europe, bad for the Netherlands and bad for the United Kingdom itself. It started with David Cameron, who tried to appease his party with a brexirefementum as an election promise. Then came the campaign of the leave camp full of lies and false promises. The term "alternative fact" was only born by Donald Trump, but it also fits well with the lyrics of Nigel Farage during the campaign. After the victory it was on June 23rd the leave camp broke all promises. They ran off like a hare. So it turned out again: bearing responsibility is something else than shouting honking along the sidelines. Theresa May took over. It swore to ensure peace, stability and a Brexit until 2020. Indeed, it initiated the process of retirement through Article 50 to announce new elections less than three weeks later, now two days ago. Today, the House of Commons has announced that these elections will be held. On 8 June it will be time. So the already tight deadline of 18 months is getting tighter. The cabinet responds in the letter that came today quite laconically: it will have no great influence. I ask the Prime Minister whether the adoption of the negotiating directives on 29 April is completely separate from the one that negotiates on behalf of the United Kingdom on 8 June. Will the elections in the United Kingdom not change anything about the preparation process of the European Union? The cabinet has formulated principles that should be included in the EU guidelines: speedy clarity, no cherrypicking, the indivisible four freedoms and no trade and security exchange. D66 supports that line, but we do have a number of supplementary questions. First of all, clarity is paramount for EU citizens in the UK. There is now uncertainty about their rights and position. Is the cabinet prepared to set up a help desk for Dutch people in the UK? The cabinet wants to prevent the Dutch contribution to the EU budget from increasing. That is a good thing, that is a good commitment, but is the cabinet also prepared to commit to a complete reform of the European budget: to stop billions of agricultural subsidies and to focus on a sustainable future? Thirdly, the Netherlands has applied to bring the European Medicines Agency EEA to the Netherlands. It is now located in the United Kingdom. This is good for thousands of direct jobs and thousands of indirect jobs. How does the Cabinet assess our chances? Is our prayerbook ready and who are our main competitors? I would like to comment on these three points. Finally, I would like to know from the cabinet how it is going to ensure that the unity of the EU-27 is maintained during the negotiations. It is not self-evident that this can be done. We must be able to continue to negotiate with the British as one strong block. What scenarios are in place and are the 27 Member States which will continue to form the European Union active in order to ensure that they are not played out against each other? We are also discussing the Turkish referendum today. Last Sunday, a very narrow majority voted to increase President Erdogan's power. According to the OSCE, the elections were unfair. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe was also very critical. Possibly 2.5 million votes have been manipulated. This calls into question the validity of the results. It is therefore right that the cabinet should support the European Commission's call for a transparent investigation into irregularities in this referendum. But in any case, in a democracy, it is crucial that power is limited and that citizens have rights that the state cannot diminish. Erdogan's plans are at odds with that. In Erdogan Turkey, freedom of expression is restricted, as is freedom of the press. Journalists, judges and officials are thrown into prison without any form of trial and after the coup and the introduction of the state of emergency the situation has deteriorated considerably. Through this referendum, Turkey is slipping even further towards an authoritarian regime. There is no place for such a country in the European Union. Is the cabinet prepared to send out the signal now that the actual introduction of the constitutional changes will put an end to the negotiations on EU membership? I'd like a response. Other measures are also being considered. For example, what are the consequences for the status of Turkey within NATO? NATO is also based on principles of democracy. And, so I ask the cabinet, what consequences does it have for arms exports to Turkey? Finally. Most of the Dutch with a Turkish background have not gone to vote. That says something, but of those who did vote, most chose more power for Erdogan. And that's worrying. How does the Minister for Integration, who is also here today, indicate this result? What does it say that people living in freedom in the Netherlands opt for less freedom in Turkey? Have the voters in the Netherlands been able to vote freely, without pressure or coercion? Furthermore, there is more and more to be heard and read that many Turkish Dutch people have their world view determined by the conservative Turkish media, the propaganda machine of Erdogan. Is this an image that the Minister of Integration recognizes? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about an extra summit that is entirely dedicated to the Brexit, but where perhaps there is still talk about Turkey in the margins. There is still much unclear, but the process of separation has begun. There's nothing to suggest it's going to go smoothly. The timetable is roughly known, but there are still many questions in substance. For the CDA Group, a common starting point for the EU-27 is important, but the Dutch interest must be visible. I would like to discuss a number of key issues: budgetary separation, the rights of EU and UK residents and a few border issues. Finally, I would like to mention a few issues of interest to the Netherlands, such as fisheries, safety and Euratom. First, a small question in advance. How did these guidelines actually come about? When did the first conversations with Tusk start about that? Without changing the policy, the Brexit amounts to 17% extra contribution for the Netherlands. We're losing the beaming discount, because that's a discount on the British rebate. Apparently, they didn't consider a Brexit back then. Net contributors could continue to pay most of the 10 billion a year gap left by the UK. We would like to have a good idea of the financial impact in the coming period and towards the MFF, the seven-year multiannual budget of the European Union. We are asking for a specific response to the following points. 1. What is the short-term risk of an abrupt hard Brexit, under the current MFF, for our payment position in the annual budget? 2. What is the medium-term payment position of the Netherlands in the new MFF if nothing changes? 3. What will be the Dutch contribution and with whom do we form coalitions within the EU for reform policy in the new MFF? I ask, because the negotiations are already starting in 2018. In formal terms, the EU should not incur any debts at all, but this has happened implicitly. That's how the Brexit makes clear. The same applies to the Netherlands. That is why, as a fourth point, we would like an overview of the commitments and guarantees made by the EU on behalf of the Netherlands Member State. What are the implicit risks facing the Netherlands? This includes the obligations for the ECB and the euro area. I would like the Prime Minister's undertaking that he will come forward with a complete overview. We may have an annual overview of the implicit state guarantees we have entered into elsewhere, but if one has apparently been forgotten, it must be added. The rights of EU and UK residents living over and over again must be a top priority, as Mr Verhoeven pointed out. What about the Dutch citizens in the UK, and what about, for example, Dutch citizens who have returned but still have pension rights in the UK? This must, of course, be laid down in a European framework. Everyone says they want it, but it doesn't happen. Does the Dutch Government want to work on a partial agreement this year, so that at least those citizens, so British citizens here and Dutch citizens and other EU citizens in the UK, will be able to reach an agreement? The impact of the Brexit on certain sectors is disproportionate. The fisheries sector in particular will be hard hit. We can't wait two years to see what it brings us. The Netherlands must protect its vulnerable sectors. Please explain to the Prime Minister, if necessary in confidence, how the Netherlands will support the sectors most affected. The UK also intends to leave Euratom. It may be, but that is not covered by the Article 50 clause and the two-year deadline. Due to nuclear safety and cooperation with the UK, Germany and URENCO, slow negotiation is not a problem at all. Will the Dutch Government allow this and commit itself to it? For the CDA, it is very important, as for the Cabinet, that the four European freedoms remain in place. The European Union is not an à la carte restaurant. But the EU must be fair. Is there any real commitment to a decent trade agreement with the UK, or do Turkey and Ukraine, Mr Erdogan and Mr Poroshenko, have any kind of concessions that the United Kingdom will not get? That seems a very strange outcome given geopolitics. Finally, two points. On the repeated question of whether the mixed treaties should be re-approved, or whether there should be another treaty by the Chamber, we still have no response. We would like that clarification. The Dutch Parliament has no formal right to information. The EU-27 does not exist institutionally. Are we going to have a portal with documents or are we going to have to wait for that? I have a number of questions about Turkey. Are you going to take a look at the Dutch Government and acknowledge the result or not? Or do you recognise the reports of the Council of Europe, the OSCE reports, the reports of all observers who say that the elections were not fair? How are we gonna handle this? Good thing the Netherlands wants to stop pre-accession support. Can we read in the report later which Member States do not want to stop pre-accession aid? I mean, Turkey has really crossed a few boundaries. We are still waiting for last year's CPT report on possible torture and torture in Turkish prisons. That report's been in a drawer for six months. Is that what the Union is getting? In today's letter, a few motions will be made very quickly. They're not finished. The Buma motion asks us to stop funding Turkish mosques directly in the Netherlands. The Dutch Government says that this cannot be done because of fundamental rights. We say: Austria does the same. How could Austria and we could not? Would you look at that again? Churches and mosques have had to say where they get the money since 2016 because of the anbi-status. When others had to, a lot of things lost their anbi status. Can we have an overview of whether churches and mosques have complied with this since 2016 and what measures are being taken? Finally, the Foreign Minister called for a report when Turkish Dutch men threatened each other last summer. We did not receive an answer to our previous question as to whether this has led to persecution or trial. We live in a rule of law. Then there must also be persecution and trial. Has anyone been prosecuted or tried and has anyone been punished for the serious threats that have taken place here last summer? If not, the call for a declaration would have been somewhat empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. The European Union has reached an exciting stage. There is a great deal of attention to the risks and dangers of European cooperation. The support area is under pressure. The European Union is blamed for a great deal, sometimes rightly, sometimes unjustly. Democratic control can be improved and 'Brussels' is synonymous with 'non-transparent and viscous decision-making'. But there is also a change visible. It is tempting to point out the profits of pro-European parties in the Dutch elections, but I will not do so. In Austria, an eminently pro-European president was elected, who defeated a highly anti-European, eurosceptic candidate. In France, a very pro-European candidate has a good chance of winning the elections. In Germany, the elections are about to take place between candidates who are all pro-European. I told you, there's a change of heart. A new undercurrent, you might say, a renewed momentum. A coming-out of pro-European sentiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u5	However, an important point of order: Europe is not under discussion. The discussion is about an organisation called EU. That is something fundamentally different from Europe. EU-sceptic parties, such as the Democracy Forum, or nihilist parties, such as the Democracy Forum, who want to destroy the EU, are pro-Europe. We believe that in the name of Europe. So Mr Van Ojik has a fundamentally wrong word to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u6	Yes. I fully agree with Mr Baudet on this point, Madam President, it was not very careful of me. I mean, of course, pro-European Union parties. I am talking here about the 'European Union' project, not Europe. He's right; I can't say any less. In my view, therefore, there is a new undercurrent and a new impetus. Of course, the future of the European Union of 27, the EU-27, is still under discussion. Juncker's scenarios are helpful, but nothing more than a tool. No more than helpful. Each country will be faced with its own choice. If, as I think, there is a new impetus for the European Union, and there is a very pro-EU Franco-German engine coming up, the European... I mean EU cooperation I must now pay very much attention to my words and get a new impetus. Each individual country, each Member State then stands for the choice: do I hook up or do I quit? We are going to talk about this in detail. The British have decided and announced their intention to leave the European Union. We can find what we want, but that's a fact. There is now a risk that the remaining 27 Member States of the European Union will compete for inheritance. The first signs are already visible: we are competing for the arrival of companies from the city of London to the 27. A race to the bottom. We must avoid that. I would like to ask the Prime Minister how we are going to do that and whether he shares my concerns on this point. GroenLinks, for the sake of clarity, is obviously not against bringing companies in or competing to bring companies in. It's okay. Good international education, good public transport, fast internet: you can do anything to ensure that if companies consider coming to one of the 27 EU Member States, the Netherlands is an attractive location for them. We have to do that, but GroenLinks' concern is that we are going to compete on things we don't want: taxation, state aid, financial supervision, you name it all. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister. In the few minutes I have left, I would like to say something about Turkey, a country where there was also a referendum, just to use an ass bridge. I would like to distinguish between three things: the referendum itself, the result of the referendum and our response to the referendum. The referendum itself took place in a climate of unfreedom, of arbitrariness, especially after the attempted coup last summer: tens of thousands of suspensions and redundancies, thousands of people in prison and press exports. Against this background, it is perhaps a miracle that 49% of the Turkish population voted no to Erdogan. But it is a fact that more than 51% said yes. That gives us the concern and the fear of further degradation of civil liberties. Those who have listened carefully to the President in the last two days know that, for example, the introduction of the death penalty in Turkey is one of the first new priorities for him. Turkey is thus getting farther away from the European Union than ever before, and that is when the rapprochement with the European Union has brought so much prosperity to Turkey. As far as my group is concerned, our reaction must be one that prevents further escalation in the relationship. The talks on Turkey's accession to the European Union have stopped. The result of the referendum is of course no reason to resume it, but there is no reason for my group to take any further steps. We fully understand the suspension of pre-accession aid, as announced by the cabinet in the letter. I ask the cabinet how we can prevent this from being at the expense of supporting the initiatives on human rights and the rule of law included in the pre-accession aid. I see I've got ten seconds left. Let us not jump to conclusions about the voting behaviour of the Dutch Turks and the extent to which this could say something about integration into Dutch society. 30% of the voting Turks in the Netherlands have indeed said yes to Erdogan's questions, but we know from all kinds of research that this is largely the same group that is enthusiastic about living, working and living in the Netherlands. It is good to do further research on this, but I would like to be alert to jumping to conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union also regrets the Brexit. With the British leaving, we are losing an ally in the economic and geopolitical field within the European Union. Now that the Article 50 procedure is under way, we must ensure that the damage for the Netherlands is limited, that we continue to work well with the British and that the rights of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom are preserved. Any restriction on free trade with the United Kingdom has a direct impact on the Dutch economy and employment, with some sectors being hit particularly hard. I am thinking of agri-food, chemistry and logistics. The Christian Union therefore wants us to remain important trading partners. The Christian Union wants an ambitious free trade agreement with a wider scope than the existing free trade agreements, and the British want it. How does the government see this? Isn't two years too short to sign a free trade agreement? How are the Dutch commercial interests well protected before and after the Brexit? The Christian Union is particularly concerned about the Dutch fishing industry. At least half of our fishing is from British waters. Our countries have been fishing side by side in the North Sea for centuries. Through joint management, fish stocks in the North Sea have remained well maintained for many important sectors. We therefore want to focus on clear agreements on access to fishing grounds in the North Sea and on joint management of fish stocks. The Christian Union is not confident that this commitment is high on the agenda of European negotiators. Is the Dutch government on top of that? What exactly is the government's commitment to the fisheries sector? The Brexit will also have a major impact on the multiannual budget. Colleagues have already mentioned it. The Netherlands is already relatively one of the largest net contributors to the European Union. The Dutch EU contribution is expected to increase with the loss of the British. The AIV therefore advocates a tough approach from the outset, together with other net contributors, and a reduction in EU expenditure. What is the government's commitment? Is the Dutch government also looking at options such as reducing the EU budget, changing the distribution key, and the net national contribution? Is the government prepared to analyse how to reduce the net contributor position? London has two European agencies. The lobby from the different Member States has already started to move the agencies to their own countries, but the Christian Union is coming up with another proposal. Let us remove the European Parliament's meeting place in Strasbourg and let us compensate the French for the location of the two agencies that are now in London. I call them the EEA and EBA. The moving circus costs us 200 million a year, excluding the travel expenses of Members of the European Parliament. This is impossible to explain. I know we talk about this every year, but I'm gonna try again. A response from the cabinet to this concrete proposal to reduce the EU budget by moving costs. Then I come to the Turkish referendum. We regret the departure of the British, but we also want to see an end to the illusion that Turkey could join the European Union. The previous negative developments were formally confirmed with the vote in favour of the constitutional change, however controversial the outcome of the Sunday referendum. Turkey wants to go further on another road. That's Turkey's choice. President Erdogan has also shown that he is no longer eager to join the EU. What is the European Union waiting for? Until Turkey decides to introduce the death penalty? Is that supposed to be the hook? Should Turkey perhaps take the decision itself? Can the Minister explain what the problem is if the European Union itself stops the accession talks once and for all? Then, without any illusion of membership, we can try to build a new, different relationship with Turkey. In itself, given the situation at the moment, that is quite a challenge. After Turkey, a representative of the Eritrean regime also tried to campaign in the Netherlands for his own party. If people are already in the Schengen area, the only hook that the Netherlands has to prevent such meetings from disrupting public order. Mr Omtzigt has previously tabled a motion on Turkey, but according to the Christian Union this should now be widened. Is the cabinet prepared to investigate how these campaigns of foreigners can be effectively countered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u8	I would like to return to Mr Voordewind's last point. He said that we should finally close the door for Turkey. But before that he said: actually Erdogan doesn't want any more. I don't really understand how you can punish a country for something undesirable by saying that something they don't want anymore is no longer allowed by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u9	Maybe we're just looking at each other and waiting for someone to close the door sometime. Erdogan said he wasn't waiting for it anymore. Europe is no longer waiting for it, especially after this referendum. Then let's not keep looking at each other. Let us try to get colleagues within the European Union to agree to stop pre-accessing and stop these ridiculous EU accession talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u10	Which, by the way, are not taking place at the moment. We'll stop something that's already standing still. But apart from that, I am trying to understand Mr Voordewind's strategic thinking. So there's something Erdogan doesn't want anymore, and then we're going, because there's a development that we don't like. What is the alert effect of that? Or let me ask you something more neutral: what does Mr Voordewind expect from that? What could be the effect of the step he has advocated in Turkey itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u11	Maybe that effect isn't even that big. That would certainly not come as a big surprise at the moment when Brussels would decide to do so. The question is, of course, whether you can get a majority for that. But I think the average Turkish citizen still wants to join the European Union. However, the Erdogan regime has taken its course, not only after Sunday, but, of course, much earlier, after all the measures taken after the coup, which is far removed from the community of values that the European Union is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u12	Finishing at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u13	In conclusion, that is exactly the point. Mr Voordewind says so himself. He is arguing for something that he thinks is actually contrary to the will of the Turkish people, but is in line with that of the Turkish regime. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u14	But then Mr Van Ojik will have to come up with an alternative, because we cannot continue along this road. We're fooling each other. We know this isn't going anywhere. We've been paying pre-accession fees for years. That was a lot of money. There is a budget deficit, which is only getting bigger now that the British are leaving. So let us now face reality, stop these pre-accessional fees and stop the conversations, which have already been suspended anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u15	I fully agree with the point of pre-accession fees. We have been calling this together with the Christian Union for years. We are still paying for Turkish prisons. For Turkish prisons and Turkish democracy, we make hundreds of millions of dollars a year. I don't know which democracy. Another question from Mr Voordewind was quite right. He asked how we could ban manifestations of regimes that are unfree, he didn't accidentally call Does the Christian Union support the call for an amendment to the law, for which Article 16 of the ECHR offers the possibility of banning demonstrations of political movements from non-free countries? You don't have to ban them, but you can ban them. Does the Christian Union support that change of law, so that you no longer constantly have to bring in some artificial disturbance of public order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u16	That was exactly my plea. Mr Omtzigt has tabled a motion to that effect as a result of the Turkish campaign. In the meantime, we have had other foreigners here who wanted to campaign, so I think it would be wiser for the cabinet, in line with the Omtzig motion, not only to look at the Turkish situation, but also to broaden it in line with the brackets we have in the ECHR, namely Article 16. Only that allows for intervention when people are not yet in the Schengen area. The question is what possibilities this cabinet sees and what powers it needs when people are already in the Schengen area and we do not want to be dependent on the argument of disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u17	Then I'll return the question to the government. Mr Voordewind says that you can only stop people in the Schengen area, but Article 16 of the ECHR simply provides for the possibility of banning meetings, regardless of whether those people are already here or not. It's not a tool that you have to bet every day, but you have to have it up your sleeve. Since the Dutch Government constantly does not answer the question of whether it can and whether it will, it could now take that opportunity, so that next time it can act more effectively against the Eritrean regime in Veldhoven and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u18	You have already had your say, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u19	We're gonna hear from the Cabinet what possibilities there are. I understand that the cabinet, based on Article 16 of the ECHR, was able to withdraw the landing rights when Turkey's Foreign Minister wanted to visit here. When the Minister of Family Affairs had crossed the border, that hook was no longer applicable and so we had to use another legal means to declare her undesirable and send her back to Germany. But that was because this lady was already in the Schengen area. So there is a gap, a gap in the legislation. I'll ask the Cabinet to see if we can fill that gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u20	Mr. Chairman. Brexit means Brexit. That's what Prime Minister May said last March 29th. Whether we should be happy about that or not is irrelevant. The British have chosen. Negotiations are now under way and many relations in the European Union are shifting. The first question I have to the government concerns the two-year period for the negotiations. Is there room for more time if that's what it takes? The European Union wants to negotiate as one block, but in the meantime, the Netherlands is organising a mini-summit with Ireland and Denmark next Friday. Is this mini-summit compatible with the EU guidelines drawn up to emphasise the unity of the negotiators? Is this organised in conjunction with those guidelines? What exactly is the Netherlands on? For the SP, it is clear that we need to ensure that this separation goes well for the citizens of Europe and the United Kingdom. There's no need for a divorce. That is not good for the Dutch and Europeans who live in Britain, for the British here, for our trade, for security interests and so on. The government is speaking to negotiator Davis. Does she want to send out the signal that a divorce is really the dumbest thing to go for? Will the government also bring this to the EU summit with the 27 remaining next week? How smart is it to put 60 billion in commitments on the table? Is this amount right and its build-up? Or is this, like the announced threat from the United Kingdom, that it will no longer cooperate with the European Union on security without a trade agreement, just a negotiating effort? And how clever is this negotiation bet? The SP would like to know what the impact will be on the EU budget and the Member States' contribution in the future. Do we need to adapt to adapt the European budget? Or should we change the European budget? As far as the SP is concerned, the latter is the best. What options does the Dutch government see for reducing the EU budget? Does she speak of this at the mini- summit with Ireland and Denmark? It is unclear how we will deal with the United Kingdom in the future. The United Kingdom prefers an ambitious free trade agreement. This benefits most Member States, but according to the European Union's guidelines, it should not be too much like membership of the European Union. It seems to me that we need to clarify quickly. When does the government expect that clarity? We would also like to see our efforts to prevent a tax war. Is the government prepared to use a tax treaty to prevent tax avoidance and competition? The government's commitment can largely count on the support of my group, but we really want to avoid a division of power. If hardliners do not give each other the light in their eyes, then perhaps mediators should take over. How does the Dutch Government view this? We must, of course, also prepare for the future of the European Union. As far as the SP is concerned, we are preparing a new treaty to cut the European Commission off and give Member States much more room to make their own choices. However, the government's position is based on a deeper and fairer internal market, even in the coming years. What am I supposed to do with that? What are we gonna do with that? Should we continue on the current road? Are we going to have more internal market and therefore more Brussels rules on more areas? Do you really think that this is what the citizens of Europe want, when we see a growing scepticism about the European Union and a greater division among the population? I'd like a response to this. Last Sunday the referendum ended in a minimal difference in Turkey, while the no-comb could hardly manifest itself on TV. It was threatened, fired, suffered violence and oppression, was arrested and even ended up in jail. The OSCE Monitoring Mission on Security and Cooperation in Europe states that the referendum took place in Turkey last Sunday under unfair conditions. The Council of Europe also condemns the elections. The same applies to the Turkish electoral council's decision to allow unofficially stamped ballots. That is an undermining of an important guarantee against ballot fraud. Despite all the opposition, the jakamp won only with a minimal difference. It shows that Turkey has been divided to the bone between supporters and opponents of the presidential system. That is worrying and not without danger. It is a sign that the opposition parties do not recognise the outcome. We have had many debates in this Chamber on Turkey, and we have called for attention to be paid to developments in Turkey, to the rapid pace at which it is moving in the wrong direction, especially after last year's failed coup and the extensive political cleansing that followed. The introduction of a presidential system in which the country moves ever further towards a dictatorship is yet another example. That is why it is time for action. Is the Prime Minister prepared to stop Turkey's accession negotiations with the European Union? Surely it is true that a presidential system, as Erdogan has presented to his people, is contrary to the democratic views of the European Union and that there can be no accession to the EU if the country takes this step? With great surprise I have seen how people who live here in freedom, in elections that go over another country, decide that people there should live in less freedom and less democracy. It must be a strange feeling for the Turkish people there that the voice of Dutch Turks, Belgian Turks, has proved decisive in the result. Does the government recognise that allowing Turkey's long arm for years will maintain loyalty to a country and a regime that people are not part of? Isn't it strange that Erdogan can say and do what he wants without having repercussions? Is the government prepared to cool the warm ties with Turkey and certainly to block the financing of, for example, Diyanet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u21	I give the floor to Mrs Maeijer on behalf of the PVV. She's having her maiden speech today. As usual in this house, she is not interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr. Chairman. While the British people have chosen freedom and sovereignty, the Turks choose Islamofascist dictatorship. The contrast can't be greater. The Brussels response once again shows why we need to leave the European Union. War language to the British, the hand above the head of Turkey. "Give up land, pay a fine and accept EU legislation," it sounds like it's headed towards the British. "An investigation, not jumping to conclusions," mumbles Brussels towards dictator Erdogan. But there's one common denominator. Brussels is responsible for the British's departure, just as it has facilitated Erdogan's grip on power. Erdogan bites the hand that feeds him. The weak government leaders in the Netherlands and Brussels let him get on with his work. The British are not crazy enough to continue to pay for the billions of accession aid for Turkey. How many more millions are being knocked out of the pockets of Dutch taxpayers to sponsor this Islamofascist farce? Thus my question to the Prime Minister. In exchange for our British friends, we will soon be stuck with dictator Erdogan. Even after he made us Dutch for Nazi remains, fascists and took the step towards dictatorship, the cabinet wants to call on the European Commission to investigate developments in Turkey and how they relate to Turkey as a candidate country. My group can tell you how they relate. They don't relate. For years, the PVV has been advocating the cessation of negotiations and the end of accession aid. Because Turkey is not one of Europe and will never belong to it, not in 100,000 years. A complete review of our foreign policy is therefore more necessary than ever: no EU membership and Turkey from NATO. If we do not now take crystal clear measures to express that a country that is taking such an authoritarian path cannot be our friend and ally, when will it be? 70% of the Turks who gave their support in the Netherlands used our freedom to choose a dictatorship in Turkey. 70%: some that have declared all efforts over the last 40 years, all integration subsidies lost. And to all those Erdogan enthusiasts I'd like to say: go! Enjoy the dictatorship you voted for in Turkey. For 12 years, the PVV has been naming the appearance of double loyalty belonging to a dual nationality. But after this referendum, the appearance has also disappeared completely: not double loyalty but a single loyalty towards Turkey. This is why the PVV will shortly be presenting an initiative proposal for a ban on double nationality. Our forthcoming proposal for a ban on dual nationality has not left the Turkish Minister unmoved either. He calls my group chairman a fascist and I quote: 'So people who voted yes must not live, be banished or murdered'. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he has already summoned the Ambassador and spoken shame of these exciting statements. For our freedom, for our prosperity and for our future, the Netherlands must invest in its friends, not in Islamic dictators and not in Erdogan fans. The relationship with Turkey can be in the refrigerator. That time and energy is better spent in the UK. Our British friends have called on Article 50, an article that was mainly intended to make it easier for Member States to obtain support for more European Union in their own countries. So it was a good guy. What should have remained a paper exit option now leads to the UK's departure. The Brexit is like a dagger stitch for Brussels, because "what the hell is a Member State doing to turn its back on the European project?" The Brussels Eurocrats will therefore make every effort to ensure that the British are the first and also the last to leave the European Union. The PVV does not want leaving the club to become a criminal expedition: no departure penalty to deter other Member States. Nor should the Brussels money wolves be able to compensate for lost income from net contributor United Kingdom by higher payments from other Member States. The financial consequences should not be passed on to the Netherlands in any way. I would like to hear from my group how the Minister is going to take care of that. While the British will soon be able to trade with the whole world and be under the yoke of the European Union, the Brexit makes it painfully clear that we in the Netherlands have nothing more to say. It is Brussels and not the Netherlands that will be negotiating with the British. Not our minister, but the French europhile Barnier is at the table, also on behalf of the Netherlands. For him, there is only one interest: the EU interest. Just as you cannot be loyal to two nationalities, you cannot serve two interests. So what interest does the cabinet really serve: the EU interest or the Dutch interest? The Netherlands should not depend on the European Union to conclude the best trade agreement with our British friends. The Netherlands, too, must break free from the EU. Finally, we have the future in our own hands. Are we going to enter a United States of Europe or are we going to opt for an independent Netherlands? We would like to present this choice to the Dutch people in a referendum. The PVV chooses a nextit. Only a nexit will allow us to regain control of our own trade policy, our own borders and our own budget. We choose freedom, sovereignty and an independent Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u23	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that your colleagues can congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. As "le plus vieux député" in this Chamber, I address myself to the "jeune" prime minister. This evening we are discussing two issues which seem to be separate from each other and which, for practical reasons, have been merged into one item on the agenda. The Chamber will indicate what input it expects from the Prime Minister at the European Summit on 29 April on the Brexit. In addition, we are discussing the outcome of the referendum in Turkey on the amendment of the constitution. Both things, if we look at them in a broader perspective, have to do with each other: Brexit and not Turk-enter. They both affect the future of Europe and thus the feelings of the inhabitants of our country about that future. Those feelings aren't always positive. There are also parties in this house who prefer to leave the European Union tomorrow. 50PLUS isn't one of them. I shall come back to that at the end of my contribution. I'm gonna hit the Brexit first. The British Prime Minister's decision to hold elections before 8 June has given this debate a special twist. That decision was sanctioned by Parliament today. Brexit will dominate this election. It will be a kind of second referendum on Brexit, albeit through the district system. Would Prime Minister May be gambling on the French backwind now that there are two candidates in the presidential elections in France who are in favour or even in favour of getting out of the euro? Prime Minister May was right to agree with President Juncker of the Commission this morning to start negotiations only after the elections. However, that does not prevent us from sharing with the Prime Minister a number of principles and giving them to him. Two things are very important to us. One is that the rights of Dutch people living and working in the United Kingdom need to be clarified as soon as possible. Particular attention should also be paid to the acquired pension rights of the Dutch in the United Kingdom, which should be protected. I'd like an answer to that. It is also natural, of course, that the United Kingdom must fulfil all the financial commitments under the current MFF that it has entered into as an EU member. What order of magnitude are we talking about here? These obligations should not be passed on to the 27 other EU countries. We would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether he shares and will address these two priorities. My group also calls for attention to be paid to the search for ways of continuing cooperation in the fields of internal and external security, foreign policy and defence. A sector which is particularly important for the Netherlands and which is seriously threatened by the Brexit is fishing. 50PLUS also calls for extra attention, just like speakers before me. We would also like to hear the Prime Minister's views on this. In the short term, it is important that the 27 countries remain united. In addition to the need to get out well with the British, there is also an important challenge. The interests of the countries of northern Europe, southern Europe and the Visegrád countries are by no means always parallel, and perhaps ever less. Can we expect the cabinet to work on this issue too? Now, Turkey. With the heels over the ditch, President Erdogan has won a majority for his controversial constitutional revision. The European Union and OSCE observers expressed their concerns about the referendum and in particular about the progress of the campaign. It is striking that US President Erdogan congratulated on the outcome of the referendum. European leaders did not do that. No doubt Trump's attitude is motivated by Turkey's position within NATO and in Syria. We would like to hear from the Minister how the Dutch government looks at the role and reliability of Turkey as a NATO partner. Speaking of reliability, how strong is the Minister's confidence in Turkey's compliance with the EU's commitments on the reception of refugees from Syria? Because of that position of Turkey, Europe is now in a split. On the one hand, a good relationship with Turkey is important because of that deal and also to keep the country in the country in the fight against the regime of the Syrian President. On the other hand, we cannot stand idly by and watch thousands of people who are displeased by the regime being locked up without trial, judges being thrown out of office and parties who stand up for a no in the recent campaign being obstructed on all sides, and all in a country which is formally still a candidate for membership of the European Union. 50PLUS has a clear position on that position. As far as we are concerned, the accession negotiations are immediately suspended or even stopped. It is also good to read in the letter we received today from the cabinet that it is continuing its efforts to suspend pre-accession aid to Turkey. In the period 2014-2020, this amounts to more than EUR 600 million per year. All in all, this is 4 billion, in addition to the 6 billion aid under the refugee deal. Surely it is too crazy to say that this money is primarily intended for the purpose of strengthening, for example, democracy and the rule of law. We hope that the other countries will follow our lead. If we help the Minister with this, we would be happy to support him by means of a motion. The issue of Brexit, the developments in Turkey and the elections in France and Germany, where anti-Europeans are also stirring, are all things that do not contribute to a strong sense of Europe. That's too bad. 50PLUS has a clear position on the European Union. The European Union must make a step in the right direction. There will be no enlargement with new countries and the focus will be on the three key tasks: economic and monetary policy, environmental and energy policy and border policy. That's the collective name for security, defence and foreign policy. It would be a good thing if the cabinet were to take office and then I would turn to the Prime Minister again, Mr President, to make a clear choice as to where it wants to go with Europe. In doing so, it indicates to Dutch citizens the importance of the European Union for our country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u25	You must conclude, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u26	50PLUS believes it is very important that we fight together for the EU to have a place in the hearts of its citizens. If necessary, I will come in second term with a motion on this matter. That depends on the Prime Minister's response. So let me explain that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Chairman. We are here tonight to discuss two of the most important challenges facing the European Union at the moment. The British have decided to turn their backs on Europe, or rather the European Union, and Erdogan is trying to expand its power in all possible and impossible ways. He is running out of democracy in Turkey. In both countries, there is great division as to how the future of the country should look. Let me start with the United Kingdom. The UK Government has now initiated the procedure which will lead to the UK leaving the European Union in two years' time. After 44 years of EU membership, the British have decided to separate themselves from their European family. As with any divorce, there is a lot to settle. I am thinking in particular of Dutch people who work, live and study in Great Britain. We hope that, despite the multitude of subjects that need to be addressed, the talks will be in harmony. Of course, I would have preferred a different result, but this result also shows how frustrating the European Union is. We see too much tax evasion in the current European Union, while small businesses struggle to keep their heads above water. We also see workers being played against each other by letting people from low-wage countries do the heavy work for less money. We see that the EU only seems to be about market and currency and not about people. That's what it was all about once, isn't it? That is why we must use this momentum to invest in a just and social Europe, with regulations in the Netherlands where it can be done and in Europe where it has to be done. That calls for unity in diversity, right now! How will the Cabinet use Juncker's recently presented European future scenarios to address these frustrations about the EU? I told you, we shouldn't be vindictive, but we shouldn't be naive. Because the Brexit must not lead to a race to the bottom. Some multinationals already count on lower or no corporation tax and the United Kingdom as some sort of offshore tax haven. That is why I ask the government not to make concessions to Dutch regulations to win the favor of soon-to-be homeless banks and companies. Our rules must not be violated. How will the government prevent the UK from creating unfair competition for Dutch companies after the Brexit? Then I come to the referendum in Turkey. After a campaign full of polarisation, one-sided propaganda and, in some cases, intimidation and irregularities at polling stations, a narrow majority supported Erdogan's expansion of power. My colleague in the European Parliament and Turkey rapporteur Kati Piri rightly mentioned it as a sad day for democrats in Turkey. That is what I think the debate should be about today, because this disappointing outcome is a blow to democracy and shows how deeply divided Turkey and the Turkish diaspora are. Almost half of all voters voted against, despite a campaign that was not fair at all, with unequal access to media, resources and human resources. What does the high number of yes votes of Dutch people with Turkish passports mean? In the letter, the cabinet mentions the Turkish diaspora policy, but also experienced discrimination and polarisation between different groups as hindering factors for bonding with Dutch society. As far as I am concerned, the role of the Turkish authorities cannot be underlined enough. She systematically and actively tries to stir up tensions in the Turkish-Dutch community, uses them for her own political gain and sets up groups against each other and thus does everything possible to bind Dutch people with a Turkish background to Turkey instead of the Netherlands. And the Netherlands isn't the only country where this plays. Can the government indicate whether and, if so, how it will denounce this problem, even at European level? Does she think that it will be possible to work together with European colleagues in this area? Democracy is more than just the will of the majority. Free press, strong opposition, protection of minorities and an independent judiciary are also essential ingredients. All things that are not guaranteed in Erdogan's Turkey at the moment and which are even more under pressure with this constitutional reform. Several opposition parties have already indicated that they will challenge the outcome. The OSCE has also indicated that several illegalities have been identified. In addition to independent research, it remains essential to continue to support democratic oppositions from human rights activists, but also from the women's movement and critical journalists. What opportunities does the government see for supporting these groups, and to what extent can the resources that are still going to the Turkish government in the context of accession be used instead to support our democratic social movements? Should it indeed come to this point that Erdogan is restricting democracy and the rule of law by strengthening his own power and undressing the judiciary, the EU cannot continue with Erdogan's Turkey in the same way as my colleague in the EP, Kati Piri, rightly pointed out on Sunday. Turkey will then take a turn that will take him even further away from Europe and, unfortunately, we will have no choice but to suspend the negotiations on Turkish membership of Europe. I'd like to hear if the government shares this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u29	Mr. Chairman. Through fate two referendums meet today. Two different countries, Britain and Turkey. Two different issues, namely the departure from the European Union and the introduction of a new presidential system. But also two completely different reactions, because during the referendum on the Brexit, politicians in this House of Representatives indicated that they would respect the democratic decision of the British people. But at the referendum in Turkey, the verdict was well before the referendum was held. The use of the referendum would be wrong and the will of the Turkish people would not be respected in all cases. I wonder why the will of the British people is worth more than that of the Turkish people. Do the British have more right to determine the course of their country than the Turks? According to DENK, it's not. And whether you've voted evet... or hayir... no, no, no, no, no, no... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We believe that people are wise and sensible enough to judge for themselves. We believe that the results of both referendums should be respected. If the British people choose to leave the EU or not, it is up to the British people. If the Turkish people opt for a presidential system in a referendum or not, it is up to them. There should be no double standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u30	Compare these two referenda, I find a separate choice. We are receiving reports from the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and we ourselves have seen that the elections in Turkey were not as fair and free and democratic as they were in Great Britain. How does Mr Kuzu manage to compare these two?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u31	It's very easy. Other speakers have already talked about the donkey bridge. It's two referendums. It is about the will of the British people and the will of the Turkish people. Of course, the messages from the OSCE have also reached us, but I would like to ask the SP a question. I have a file here on the OSCE observers. Isn't the appearance of partiality raised when one of the OSCE delegation members is photographed with a PKK flag? The PKK is a terrorist organisation according to the United Nations, according to the European Union, according to the Netherlands and according to the member of the delegation shown in the photograph. Three weeks before the referendum, one of the delegates is demonstrating with a PKK flag. I'm gonna ask the SP another question. One of the delegates is happy to pose at an opposition party. Does this not create the appearance of partiality? Does that not call for the report to be taken less seriously by Turkey?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u32	You ask questions to Mrs Leijten, but she has already spoken. She is now placing an interruption in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u33	And this is my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u34	You can talk about two referendums that you think you should respect, but one of those referendums did not go fair. Suddenly no stamps were needed, so all kinds of votes were approved. I think it's a lot of nerve to put both referenda on the same page. I think that's guts. I think it's totally gutsy, because we've also seen the way the jakamp campaigning is done. That happened far beyond the physical boundaries and also the moral boundaries. I do not think it would be a good idea to compare the brexirefreendum and that last weekend in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u35	We at DENK are known for our guts. Thank you for this compliment. I'd like to point out the SP...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr Kuzu may point out anything to me, but then he must have the guts to interrupt me. He just needs to answer my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u37	I will do the same if Mrs Leijten will allow me. We at DENK are indeed known for our guts. I am also pleased that Mrs Leijten indicates that it is about the will of both populations. With regard to the referendum in Turkey, I would also like to draw Mrs Leijten's attention to what happened in 2015. In 2015, the opposition parties CHP and HDP indicated that there were ballots that had not been stamped, but which were approved by the Turkish Election Council. By the way, this is possible under Turkish law. I shall come back to that in my contribution. It is not good to put up the picture here that it all went horribly and not according to the rules. Let us be clear: you can discuss the effects of the new system. That's what we do at DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u38	If it is true that 2.5 million ballots have been counted unstamped, that 2.5 million votes may be counted invalid, then what does Mr Kuzu think of that? Does he think that fits in the list of 'it all went well' and 'we should not exaggerate what has gone wrong' or is that just large-scale electoral fraud that could have affected the result, since the result is 51% against 49% so very close? I would simply like an answer, because Mr Kuzu van DENK is constantly pretending to answer questions properly, but he is not going to answer them at all if we do not ask him clearly. I would also like a clear answer. Just tell me what you think if 2.5 million votes weren't counted in a fair way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u39	If I have the opportunity to answer the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u40	You will have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u41	... before the accusation is made that I would not answer the question, it seems appropriate that I should be given the opportunity to answer it. That's one. The second is: where do we get the figure of 2.5 million votes? The third point is: if that had been the case, I would like to point out to Mr Verhoeven of D66 that this is not new in Turkey, that this has happened in the past. When in 2015, the CHP and the HDP, opposition parties in Turkey, indicated that uncounted ballots had not been included, it was also included at the request of the Election Board and after the lodging of a complaint. So the image that's being hung here, that unstamped ballots would be election fraud, just doesn't add up. And that's my answer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u42	Several organisations have looked at the progress of the referendum, the OSCE, the Council of Europe and the European Commission, and all three have found that things have not gone well. They've made some serious criticisms. Is DENK going to do something with that now? Does DENK take that seriously and looks at it or says DENK "whatever is said, we are fine with it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u43	Yes, we take that seriously. That is why we support the government's view that further investigation is needed. I will come back to that later in my contribution. However, as far as the OSCE is concerned, in relation to a number of members of the OSCE delegation, I also ask the government whether we can also understand, perhaps, that is a question for you, too, that the appearance of bias is raised when we see representatives and delegations of the OSCE pose in campaigns of the camp. When we see that one of the representatives, one of the members of the OSCE delegation, is posing with a terrorist flag, also according to Dutch standards, then... That is a question that I also sincerely have with regard to the government. Maybe you could think about that for yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u44	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u45	I will wait and see what Mr Kuzu is about to say, but if it turns out that 2.5 million votes are not properly counted, then I assume that DENK will also say that perhaps we should look again at the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u46	This is a repeat of moves. I just answered about the 2.5 million. Mr. Chairman. Of course, you can discuss the effects of the new system. We are doing the same for DENK, but we could also ask whether it is right that the President of France should have all the rights to declare the state of emergency on his own and to dissolve the French Parliament with just one signature. Where are the comments of the Dutch Government on this? Where is the indignation of the colleagues in the House of Representatives? Is it right for Donald Trump to rule by decree and thereby outlaw Congress? Where are the concerns of our ministers in this respect? It seems as if there is almost an obsessive tendency to have an opinion on everything that has to do with Turkey. A day of not talking about Turkey has not been lived for a day. This really does not change the outcome of the referendum. Of course, it is important that this referendum has been held in an orderly manner and in accordance with democratic principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr Kuzu is always very afraid of this obsession with Turkey, but this debate is about the Brexit. Does he actually have an opinion on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u49	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u50	Well, you can. I will continue with my speech, because I will come to that. We are also looking with concern at the results of international observation missions, but also with concern at the criticism of this mission. DENK therefore calls on the European Union, international bodies and Turkey to take the lead in a transparent, equivalent and well-founded process and to respond to complaints from both sides, a response to the substantive issues, but also a response to the fact that OSCE observers were active in the "no' campaign and waved PKK flags. Is this at stake in the independence of the OSCE? This is what I have just asked the Minister. We at DENK also want to shift the emphasis from the content of the constitutional change to what it means for the future. Whether someone likes the outcome of the referendum or not, it is the reality that Turkey and Europe have to work together and in any form. It is therefore very important to enter into a respectful, equal and realistic dialogue from both sides in order to be able to resolve common challenges, and that, I repeat, from both sides. Because victims of the present diplomatic situation are the Turkish Dutch here and the Dutch in Turkey. They got caught between Ankara's harsh rhetoric versus The Hague. This must stop from both sides, because challenges such as the refugee drama, terrorist threats, climate problems are too big and too important to allow diplomatic relations to be hijacked by escalation, disagreements and hatred. Unfortunately, I do not feel this attitude or too little in the letter from the government and the contributions of my colleagues so far. My question is why? Why are we doing this? I also see that the Minister for Integration is present in this debate. For the umpteenth time, an international issue is being abused by some political parties to score a point about multicultural society. Parties such as the PVV, the VVD and the CDA say that some Turkish Dutch people have nothing to do in the Netherlands and better leave. Some kind of loyalty decision tree has been made. Did you vote in the referendum, yes or no? Did you vote for the constitutional review, yes or no? Did you wave a Turkish flag, yes or no? Do you have the double nationality, yes or no? Depending on the answers, you'll be part of it, you'll be good, or you'll have to pick up. Every day people have to answer these questions again, at the hairdresser, at the supermarket, at work. Each time their origin gives rise to political questions and doubts about their Dutch identity. Let me be very clear: no political party and no answer to a question determines whether these people are Dutch, because that determines our Constitution. These people are just as Dutch and perhaps even Dutcher than Geert Wilders, Han ten Broeke and Pieter Omtzigt. These people don't have to integrate. These people need to be accepted, period. I ask the government: it's fantastic that you want to increase the bond of people with the Netherlands, that's what DENK wants too, but then it has to stop people from being reduced to their ethnic background? Well, then it's got to stop people from getting "pleasure on" thrown at their heads, right? Surely it must stop calling people to account for a referendum on the basis of their political preference? Then it must stop that every time there is reason to talk about passports, loyalty and integration? The bonding of people with the Netherlands begins by seeing people as Dutch, period. When it comes to Brexit: it's an intensive process. It is now being allocated two years, and this needs to be clarified quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Kuzu always blames us for talking about Turkey all day, but he managed to speak five minutes and 59 seconds of his speaking time about Turkey in the Brexit debate, and one second about Brexit: that it is difficult. So I'll just give him a little bit of time with this interruption. What are the priorities for DENK in the Brexit process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u52	Ensure that the Dutch interest is guaranteed, that there is rapid clarity on the various issues discussed, that there is rapid clarity on Britain's position in the future, and that we ensure that we clarify about our business and about the race to the bottom when it comes to taxation, a subject on which Mr Omtzigt always makes a point, as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u53	I hardly dare to ask, but the government has written a letter and the AIV has made a recommendation: hasn't Mr Kuzu simply read what the government's commitment is and has a vague opinion on it? "Protecting the interests of the Netherlands" sounds very exciting, but if it doesn't get any more specific than that, we don't have to have a debate here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u54	It has not been my choice to combine these two debates today, as has already been shown in the course of the work. It was precisely the will of Mr Omtzigt, of the PVV and of a large part of the political parties here to combine these two debates. If Mr Omtzigt says to me now 'you do not like to talk about Turkey and we do like to talk about Britain and the Brexit', I would, if I were Mr Omtzigt, scratch my ears and talk to myself about what is being discussed daily at the dining table at home in the Omtzig house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u55	Finally, Mr Omtzigt. At this point, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u56	Well, not on that point of Mr Kuzu, but just on the point about which this debate on interruption is about. That's very simple about the question of what DENK wants with Brexit. We are having a debate here, the title of which is 'the European Summit'. That's what we're talking about Brexit. And here is a political party who constantly blames us for not talking about what we should be talking about. Does Mr Kuzu want something about fishing, does he want something about human rights? Or should I conclude that he doesn't care at all? I have not yet heard a single specific point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u57	I believe that clarity is a very concrete point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u58	Until yesterday afternoon, the issue of Brexit negotiations was on the agenda for tonight. We had four minutes to do so. I can imagine that a party like DENK had already decided whether or not it would participate in the debate and what input it would have. I am just so curious: would DENK have planned not to participate in this debate if Turkey's referendum had not become part of that debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u59	To be honest, if the Turkey part had not been added to this agenda, I would not have been here, but Mr Azarkan, who is doing the financial and Brexit part for us. Then he would have been standing right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u60	Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u61	Okay, this answers exactly the question that was just asked. You accuse us of always bringing forward what you do not really want to talk about, namely criticism of Turkey. I think it is very legitimate to talk about this. Then you accuse us of merging a debate, because we want to talk to the Prime Minister about it. But you yourself have nothing but nothing to say about Brexit; you are the Turkey spokesperson and that is the contribution of DENK. I am sorry to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u62	It is not a reproach that different debates have been joined together; it has been a choice of the Chamber to merge these different debates. That was a choice by a majority of the Chamber and it is fine that that happens in that way. On the point of criticism of Turkey, the following. I hope that during today's debate I have been able to contribute to the feeling and sentiment that many Turkish Dutch and Dutch people live in Turkey, namely that they are caught between the grandeur of politics here in The Hague of the two different governments, called, again, from two sides. It's not from one side, it's from two sides. This puts people living here in the Netherlands with a Turkish background in the grip and Dutch people living in Turkey in the grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u63	Unlike Mrs Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, who have listened with irritation, the Forum for Democracy listened with great interest to Mr Kuzu's fascinating speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u65	Well, you made your point, thank you. Let us now turn to Mr Ten Broeke, on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are indeed talking about an exit candidate and an accession candidate: Brexit and Turkey. Both equally undesirable. Meanwhile, on this side of the Channel, the EU-27 is jointly preparing the European Commission's negotiating mandate. "One-minded" in the European Union means that everyone takes care of their interests. The VVD wants to do the same and wants the cabinet to do the same. That is why I have two points on Brexit. The first is about the pennies and the second is about the pennies. The first concerns the outstanding accounts when signing the divorce papers. If the UK does not pay them or does not pay them in full, other countries will have to pay. As a net contributor, the Netherlands comes directly into the picture. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the Dutch contribution should not go up without the UK, and so should the European budget. As far as the VVD is concerned, the new European multiannual budget can be cut by 16%. I even heard Mr Omtzigt speak of 17%. He's better at math than I am, so I'm sticking to omtzigt. It concerns the UK contribution to EU expenditure. 17% less expenditure is 17% less revenue; that is the logic. Not the Dutch contribution up and down European ambitions. The second point is also about the money. While the divorce is being discussed, trade continues. The Netherlands has a relatively high interest in a trade agreement with the UK, so let us ensure that discussions can start on this in good time. Can the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister guarantee us that the order which has been decided unanimously will not cause us, the Netherlands, problems? Separation causes suffering, as has already been said, but trade is leading as far as we are concerned. I come to the subject that has been added this evening, the Turkish referendum. Just over half of the Turks voted last Sunday for a far-reaching extension of President Erdogan's powers. That's bad news. Good news was that 23 million Turks had the courage, despite the heavy pressure and intimidation and alive under the state of emergency, to vote no. A significant minority degraded President Erdogan to be the moral loser, but the smallest, perhaps even imaginary majority, promoted him to an autocratic ruler. Sometimes they also voted for the virtual abolition of the parliamentary system, for the transfer of the almost uncontrolled executive power to one man and for 18 constitutional changes which are at odds with the values and freedoms of our Western society and European treaties. In short, it was a black day in the history of Turkey. It was also a black day that got a black edge in our country. 70% of the Dutch living here with Turkish passports and voting rights voted in favour. But I also say that a majority of the Dutch of Turkish origin did not show up. You are part of this country and you enjoy our freedoms and our fundamental rights, but you do not then grant those freedoms to the people in your ancestors' country or even to your own family and friends who are still living there. That's crazy! I can imagine that this has once again been a blow to the face of all those Dutch people with a Turkish background who in our country are just working hard and part of society, who do not wave flags on bridges and make the Dutch press impossible the work, who do not call Turkey their country and Erdogan their leader, who are proud of this country, the Netherlands, their country and how they can live here in freedom and who leave the future of Turkey to the Turks who live there. But there are also Dutch people with Turkish passports who prefer to trade parliamentary democracy for a presidential autocracy, who reject the separation of powers, independent judges and free journalism, and who subordinate those fundamental rights to a president who rules by decree under a state of emergency, perhaps with the death penalty as a means of horses. This group is clearly one-legged in Turkey and wishes to see a society without the freedoms and values on which we are so proud. It's a split. Now that the Dutch with a Turkish background appear so divided, I would like to ask the Minister for Social Affairs... No, don't ask. I call on him no longer to consult with the organisations that say to represent the Turkish Dutchman, no longer to sit down with the organisations that represent those who voted for a democratic decline in the country of their ancestors. We have recently debated Erdogan's long arm, which tried to pressure this group remotely. What about my colleague Azmani's appeal to work with a counter-strategy against this unwanted long arm? Can the Minister indicate how he is implementing my colleague Azmani's motion? The outcome of this referendum can only be seen as a decline as a free society. The constitutional changes that result from this will only push Turkey further away from European values in terms of democracy and the rule of law. This inevitably raises the demand to stop the EU's accession process. Those negotiations have been comatose for a long time. The question is who is actually pulling the plug in the negotiations. It is possible that Erdogan will do so himself, given the two referendums on the death penalty and EU membership that have now been announced. After all, the introduction of the death penalty makes accession impossible in itself. The referendum on EU membership could lead the Turks themselves to decide that they do not want to. The other possibility is that the EU will also formally stop the accession negotiations which are in fact still in progress. As far as the VVD is concerned, the European Commission is in a hurry to review how the constitutional changes and their application relate to the status of Turkey as a candidate country. The VVD keeps the interests of the Netherlands in mind. We have an interest in Turkey as a member of NATO, given the security interests in the region. We have an interest in complying with the agreements reached with Turkey on migrants and refugees. Let us blackmail ourselves with this, I hear a number of parties in this house thinking now. Is the door still open to the EU because we do not dare to close it? No. There are accession criteria for a reason. We do not deviate from that, but the fact is that the way in which international politics is practised is different from what we can afford in our own country. Trying to deal with conflicting interests and keeping common interests in mind, that's realpolitik. And yes, it's uncomfortable, but I'm not saying it here for the first time: we don't just make appointments with friends, because then we don't get into the world. What's good for the Netherlands doesn't always feel right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u67	I don't have much of a focus on where the VVD is. Does she say "stop the negotiations that lie still" or "do research first"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u68	I find the form "stopping with something that is stilling" very difficult. I've been thinking about that. I'm not really getting out of there. The negotiations have stopped. So, fortunately, nothing's happening at all. Then you can formally stop doing that. You know who that is. That is up to the European Commission. It's officially about the predicate candidate country. You can make a proposal for this through the European Council. That has happened in the past. Austria has done so recently; no example I would like to follow. You're trying to send a signal, it's gonna come back in your face like a loud boomerang and there's a smiling third and it's called Erdogan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u69	Now the VVD does seem a bit like the accession negotiations will stop anyway, left or right...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u71	... and that is why we do not have to take a position. It's being investigated, and it'll stop to the left for a right. I don't know the VVD like that. I know the VVD as a clear match. Are you now in favour of or against stopping the accession negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think I just said that. The negotiations have stopped. Formally, now that we're withdrawing that status, it's not up to us. I would say, above all, let us not get in the way of the fact that President Erdogan has already announced that he is taking all the steps to pull the plug himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u73	So a regime that slides to a dictatorship that picks up elected parliamentarians, that prevents people from voting and campaigning, that's all right? The VVD says, "Well, we're not actually talking." But, yeah, they're still at the table. They still receive pre-accession support, which is based on the idea of becoming a Member State. We all don't do anything about that. I don't like it a bit. I think it's a little chattering. I don't know the VVD like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u74	I often feel you don't know the VVD. In this respect, you would be well advised to assess our positions, not just in this area. To say that we are not doing anything about pre-accession aid, I would like to fight here. I myself have already insisted on this by other Europe speakers, Mr Mulder who is sitting there, and Mr Verheij have already done so, and several motions have been tabled to ensure that this is the case. You know very well what that is all about. That is because you need to achieve unanimity within the European Council. That means that 28 countries must say 'yes' to this and not just 150 people's representatives. That's where things go wrong all the time. So the fact that we have not made these proposals is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mrs. Leijten, you want to correct something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes. I did not say that the VVD did not make the proposals, but that is the result of not stopping the accession negotiations...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u77	No, we don't. We don't have a magic wand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u78	... that money continues to flow, because there is no agreement, is accepted. Then you blame the fact that there is no unanimity. I find that a little easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u79	You will also make a proposal that you will not get a majority for. In this case, you even have to achieve unanimity. It has never stopped the SP from participating in the elections. So in that respect, let's look each other in the eye. We have made these proposals, everyone knows where we stand in the area of pre-accession support, but you need to get a majority for that. At the same time, I can very well imagine that there are a number of parties, which is the modus operandi in this Parliament, which would like to send a good signal to the grassroots. At the same time, what feels good is not always good for the Netherlands. And we, and that is very clear, Mrs Leijten, are only doing what is right for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u80	'We are only doing what is right for the Netherlands', says Mr Ten Broeke. At the same time, he introduced Turkey and the referendum, describing the referendum as a black day for Turkey: human rights are not respected and it slips into a dictatorship. Where are you now, Mr Ten Broeke? Like Mrs Leijten, I still do not understand the judgment. Are you saying that it does not matter what Turkey does; we want to continue trading? Do you say: let us not talk about suspending the accession talks, because they are already at a standstill? Is it about trading or is there a red line for you as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u81	The red line is objectively defined. We all know them. When the death penalty is introduced, it is a sort of self-destruct button pressed. Then it's done, done, over and they lose formal candidate status. For the rest, we are sticking to the criteria we have agreed on ourselves. That's always so convenient when you're negotiating. And there are interests. The interests of the Netherlands are, of course, in addition to trade interests, also the importance of the enormous refugee flows that we have seen and which, fortunately, have been brought to a halt in a deal with Turkey to a large extent. You're not for that, but it's a successful deal. For the time being, it will continue to have results. We also have security interests, as I have just pointed out. Unfortunately, with a magic wand, we cannot change the situation anywhere in the world around us. I would like to see it different, Mr Voordewind, but I do not tend to table a motion on this every day, which, above all, gives a good feeling, but does not really contribute much to the real situation in the countries themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u82	In this speech, Mr Ten Broeke again has two contradictory stories. He mentions two interests, where he sits in the middle. He says that the interests of the Netherlands are important and that the Turkey deal must of course be respected and implemented. At the same time, he said that these pre-accessional fees should only be stopped once. He's sending out two signals. Let us put it more simply: does he think that with the cessation of pre-accessional fees, negotiations should also be suspended? Actually, they're still, so let's call it that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u83	Yeah, I just did. I called it that. That is also the factual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u84	Let me make it clear that Mr Ten Broeke said it was in a standstill. But does the Group of the Party of European Socialists also consider it desirable for the negotiations to be formally suspended? 'Cause that's not happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u85	If you want to formally suspend the negotiations, you should get the European Commission to make that proposal. I have just said that, and we know that; this Parliament has tried that a number of times. Then you should get the Council to support that proposal. The Netherlands has failed in the past. Austria has recently failed to do so. You can try that again now, but if it doesn't work again, you're doing one person a great favor. Then that's like a big bunch of flowers heading for Ankara. I wouldn't want to do that. What I do want to do is to make a more constructive proposal here that we might be able to get our hands on. In any case, we should be given a new weighing-up at the moment when the European Commission assesses the elections in Turkey, what it should do now. There have already been two international institutions that have ruled on this. I refer to the Council of Europe. We have the Venice Commission, which did not say anything directly about the final result, but about the start-up. And we have heard from the OSCE about the election observers. It is now up to the European Commission to draw conclusions as well. As far as we are concerned, it is possible to conclude that a new assessment is being made of candidate status. I think that's an interesting figure, but I think that's what I'm hoping for, but here in the Chamber, too...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u86	Period. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u87	... to obtain broad support for it, and not just here, because that is not so important, but especially in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u88	Usually long answers mean that you still want to hold back a little bit of clarity. I think it is a good time to ask for that clarification. I understand all the movements that Mr Ten Broeke is making, and I also understand the reality in his answers. I understand all that, but if the constitutional changes, which are now almost certain by the referendum, are implemented in 2019, then it is obvious that the Copenhagen criteria, as Mr Ten Broeke has just mentioned, will no longer be met in any way. It's not so crazy to say right now that, when it comes to it, it has to stop formally? Surely that is a clear sound that you can now give and which can be combined very well with all the realistic considerations of Mr Ten Broeke?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u89	Short answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u90	Yeah, that's very possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u91	And is the VVD going to say that today? The VVD says that the European Commission is doing research and that the European Commission confirms this, but does the VVD also dare to say: yes, if it comes to this, then we should simply take that step of formally stopping negotiations in 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u92	So that's what we need the investigation for. Mr Verhoeven will also agree with me. You're gonna have to have that investigation for that. If it is flagrantly contrary to the Copenhagen criteria, then the European Commission can only come to the conclusion that there is no basis for negotiations. Then we shall see that here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u93	Okay, that's a clear answer. You can say that the Commission has yet to examine it. It'll take some time. But if you look at the Copenhagen criteria and the constitutional changes, you can draw that conclusion yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u94	That is why the negotiations are de facto shut down. Then it's about whether you can give candidate status a different shape or take it all away. That is what the Commission is about. She has to make a proposal to that effect. In the past, efforts have often been made to do so through individual Member States. The Netherlands has tried to do so, and Austria has even tried to do so in the Council. It has had its way of doing so in a terrible way. Then you bite in the sand and that's what none of the parties here want; neither do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u95	I would like to endorse Mr Verhoeven's question. The demand for the cessation of negotiations was his. Mine is whether the evaluation, possibly with a very critical assessment, can mean that pre-accession aid will be suspended in the shortest possible time, as requested by the Chamber, under other circumstances, in September last year in a motion? The circumstances have been very different for a week. Surely that should also give the cabinet reason, especially when the evaluation is so out, to address the European Commission to put an end to this at least? We're talking about 4 billion in seven years, from 2014 to 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u96	Mr Van Rooijen does not have to convince me of this. That motion is not the first and, I fear, will not be the last motion calling for it to be done. This Parliament is quite united when it comes to granting or stopping aid, including financial support. But this also applies to the issue of whether you want to keep to the rules if you want others to comply with those rules too, and if you want to do so within the European Council, you have to do so. If you cannot acquire it, as has been shown a number of times in the past, you may have to try another way. I would like to see it different, but we need to be able to bring about the reality of what we agree on here and what 27 others are going to have to agree on soon. That realism is sometimes lacking in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u97	We're repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u98	Does Mr Ten Broeke recognise that after the elections there is a new fact that the cabinet, we ask, could give reason to reconsider after the Commission's evaluation whether the necessary majority can be obtained in the Commission, and then in the Council, in order to stop this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u99	There are even two new facts. The first new fact is the referendum that has just taken place, which could result in 18 constitutional changes that will take place sometime in 2019 at the next presidential elections. Research will have to be carried out on this. We may also know a new fact in extending the state of emergency and announcing two new referendums. If the Turkish Parliament does not decide on death penalty, the Turkish President has announced that he will try to enforce it by referendum. In any case, the self-destruct button I have just mentioned applies to the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. What was the reason for the Brexit again? Everyone still knows that, of course, but it doesn't hurt to summarize that once in a while. The simple answer is: a perplexed European integration and the British desire to restore national sovereignty to a meaningful place. Although the British's choice for an exit places them with great challenges, they do have an important and right point. Like other Member States, the UK has lost more and more powers to what we refer to as 'Brussels', through legislation and policy proposals from the European Commission, but also through judgments of the European Court of Justice. Over the decades, the EU has increasingly transformed into a supranational European colossus that can hardly be controlled anymore. The message of the Brexit is that the pervasive integration can lead to accidents. The "ever closer Union" can just turn into a "ever loser Union"................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is what the European leaders should be dealing with. They should reflect on that. And although the White Paper could give some clues, I still hear far too little in the responses from the EU leadership. The direction of the EU will need to be changed in a rigorous manner. How does the government convey this message in Brussels, in words and in deeds? The SGP supports the cabinet's principles in the Brexit negotiations. Given the particular vulnerability of the fisheries sector, the SGP favours good agreements on maintaining the current quota allocation and mutual access to fishing grounds. How will the government ensure that the EU prioritises the defence of the fisheries sector? The SGP is also for smooth cooperation with Great Britain. Let the EU not venture into bluff poker, but avoid fighting divorce. This is in line with what several colleagues have said. Another issue is the referendum in Turkey. Firstly, we have to face the question of whether the referendum has been fair. Among other things, the OSCE expressed itself very critically on this issue. They saw problems in particular with regard to the provision of impartial information, and significant restrictions on freedom of assembly and expression due to the state of emergency. Of course, Turkish leaders question the report. However, that is the regular and predictable reaction of an authoritarian regime or moving in that direction. Does the Minister share the criticisms made by the OSCE? And what does this say about the legitimacy of the outcome? What impact does the referendum have on Turkey, the EU and the Netherlands? The Minister noted that the proposed constitutional change concentrated a lot of power in one person, at the expense of parliament. To what extent is this concentration of power at the expense of fundamental political, economic and personal freedoms in Turkey? It is not a question of comparing it with a presidential democracy such as that in America or France, because at least there are no parliamentarians imprisoned there, because no 154 journalists have been imprisoned there. That makes the situations incomparable. It's an incorrect equation. In view of the developments in Turkey under the new regime, what are the expectations of the cabinet about the rights of minorities, including the Kurds and Christians? Those are exciting questions. As a candidate country, Turkey has received hundreds of millions from the EU for many years to build good governance, a functioning rule of law and respect for human rights. How meaningful was and is this? Is the government prepared to urge at EU level to end this pre-accession aid? The SGP Group has also repeatedly advocated the end of accession negotiations. Stop it! Continuing means that the EU does not take its own standards and conditions seriously. That would not only be pointless and costly, but also totally unbelievable. What would be the decisive reason for the Minister not to end Turkey's accession to the Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u102	I ask Mr Bishop if he recognizes the next phrase. "The government has been called by God to punish evil so that the law that has been violated is restored. This violated right requires just, but also legitimate, punishment; this includes the death penalty."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u103	I do not see directly what that has to do with my speech, but of course I recognize it. That's clear. But I don't think I've talked about the death penalty yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u104	It is interesting for those who do not know: it comes from the principle programme of the SGP. Mr Bishop called for Turkey's pre-accession aid to be stopped because Turkey does not respect certain values as we know them. Should we not therefore ask the SGP whether we should still provide it with party funding under the Political Parties Financing Act as long as it has the death penalty in its principle programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u105	I have often noticed that, from DENK, there is a certain concept of democracy which is very much reminiscent of that of the people's democracies in Eastern Europe up to 1989: to silence certain democratic sounds which can have their place in a parliamentary democracy as we know it. Indeed, if Mr Kuzu believes that because of the SGP position on the death penalty, which we have never, by the way, put under any circumstances, and that we have always been motivated and well-framed, then there is nothing to prevent him from trying to reverse our parliamentary democracy in that direction. But I would remind him that he would like to restrict freedom of expression, freedom of association and that sort of thing in the direction of Erdogan in Turkey. That's what it's in line with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u106	We stand for freedom of speech. We stand for freedom of association. We are also very clear about the death penalty: we reject it. But this is not yet the beginning of an answer to the question I have put to Mr Bishop. He says that pre-accession aid to Turkey must be stopped because a number of values are not respected, while one of those values we know in the Netherlands is the failure to implement the death penalty. How does he feel about that? Or is his only argument: we can tell it clearly, we can clearly define it and we can explain it clearly? If that is the only reason for a sentence such as the death penalty, I find it rather remarkable and I see a kilo of butter on Mr Bishop's head.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Kuzu is now ignoring the reasons for calling for the suspension of pre-accessional fees. Because it didn't seem to have helped. There are 154 journalists in custody, some of them already before the infamous coup. Furthermore, certain political movements have been severely restricted. A movement directed against Erdogan's political movement is consistently called "terrorist." A link is being made to the action of that movement, as if it were the cause of the coup that took place last year. I understand how far-reaching that has been, but so far no apparent evidence has been provided of any connection between that coup and that political movement. For example, there are other things that make it necessary to make it clear that it has taken the wrong route when it comes to the development of a genuine parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'll come to a conclusion. There is also a need for reflection on the large number of Turkish yes voters in the Netherlands. I agree with a number of colleagues who have also made comments on this issue. The great willingness to restrict the democratic authority of parliament to the benefit of a strong leader gives us great thought. What does the high percentage of Dutch yes-voters say about the extent to which some Turkish Dutch people have acquired our values, standards and customs? Does the government see any additional reason to limit unwanted funding and influence, for example by Diyanet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u110	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I hear from section K the question whether your speech can be in Greek.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u111	I'd love to, but the chairman doesn't want me to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u112	That's right! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr. Chairman. We're so jealous of the British. The British, well, the British! They have chosen freedom and independence. They have chosen to rule their own country again, to shape their own democracy, to determine their own immigration policy. They have chosen no longer to be a wing west for the Eurocrats in Brussels and Strasbourg. The British have ignored a clear no of the people in this parliament, in this country in which the party cartel has already twice already ignored a referendum, a clear no of the people, but they have listened to the will of the people. Within twelve hours after the ballot boxes were closed and it appeared that the majority of the British had voted in favour of Brexit, Prime Minister Cameron had already resigned without a non-binding, meaningless insert and without a ten-month delay. Yeah, that's how it's gonna be. Get over that with Mark "it's just a trade treaty" Rutte. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to the difference in strength and respect for the results of referendums, so the difference between him and the former Prime Minister of Great Britain. As representatives of the Netherlands, it is our duty now to support the British as much as possible in the diplomatic struggle they will have with the Brussels monster over the next two years. Britain is our top three trading partner, and after Germany even our second export market. It is a hugely important customer of our agricultural sector, which, year after year, creates a large surplus on our trade balance. So, more than the British themselves, we have every interest in a good understanding. That is of course a VVD-premier, of a party that says to stand up for entrepreneurial Netherlands, which does not understand, is very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u114	Mr Baudet just said to Mr Van Ojik that he had to say 'European Union' instead of 'Europe'. Mr Baudet himself now uses the term 'Brussels monster'. I do not think that is entirely correct. I would ask Mr Baudet to keep talking about the European Union. So what you ask a colleague to do, take that into account. That is actually the request to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u115	I only think that 'Brussels monster' is a very accurate term to describe the European Union, because it has a number of characteristics that we attribute to monsters. One of them is an unbridled usury to control and seize our lives. We cannot deny it to the European Union. I would therefore like to retain the term 'Brussels monster' to refer to this institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u116	In conclusion, I just have this short question. Has Mr Baudet considered the major economic consequences for a small country such as the Netherlands, which is highly dependent on a large internal European market, if any, following a British example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u117	The answer to this question is in the affirmative. The interests of the party cartel, and that's the point that I like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u118	That is short and clear, but not the answer I would like to hear. Will Mr Baudet comment on the consequences of that affirmative reply? So he acknowledges that these consequences are great, but how does he weigh them up in the consideration of whether or not to resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u119	Look, the European Union is actually four things. Three of them are not in Dutch interest, but one is. The euro is very bad for the Netherlands, the open borders are very bad for the Netherlands and the customs union, which makes it impossible for us to conclude free trade agreements with the rest of the world, is very bad for the Netherlands. The only thing that is good for the Netherlands is the fact that it is easier to trade internally, i.e. within the borders of the EU. Well, you can do that without any problem if you conclude bilateral or multilateral trade agreements, if you become a member of the European Economic Area or if you become a member of the European Free Trade Association. There are plenty of opportunities for that. So we can have all the benefits of the EU without problems outside the EU, while we no longer have all the disadvantages, such as the terrible currency, the dramatic open borders and the customs union that binds us at our feet. So it has only advantages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u120	Finally, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u121	I think it is good that Mr Baudet gives qualifications of advantages and disadvantages without quantifying them. The disadvantages for the Netherlands are much greater than Mr Baudet outlines in this row of three-to-one. I think that, in the coming period, we will have to discuss in depth with him the real for and against what he is advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u122	I didn't list any pros and cons. I gave a list of benefits. There are no disadvantages to a Dutch exit from the EU, because we can also have all the benefits of the EU if we are not in the EU. There is no reason to be in the EU if we want to act freely with our neighbours. This can also be done without being in the EU. That's the point. The interests of the party cartel are not always the same as the interests of the Netherlands. After all, the career paths set out for themselves by professional politicians run through Brussels and Strasbourg. The Hague is all too often an annoying stopover. Was that perhaps also why Mark Rutte immediately after the Brexit stated that the United Kingdom had collapsed politically, economically, monetaryly and constitutionally? "England has collapsed," he said, "politically, monetaryly, constitutionally and economically." These are statements that might have led him to a pat on the back of Juncker, but above all an extremely unwise insult to our second trading partner, our partner who runs an important part of the Dutch economy. In addition, the statements were in fact completely wrong. The United Kingdom has been the fastest growing economy in the G7 since the Brexit. Unemployment has fallen by 60 000. The government debt has shrunk faster than expected. The stock markets are doing better than any other in Europe. Investment is increasing and banks and multinationals, such as ING and Unilever, also indicate that they are considering moving their principal place of business to the United Kingdom. Our exports to the United Kingdom are now 3% higher than in the same period in 2015. But in addition to economic benefits, the Brexit also brings enormous political benefits to the British. The British can now go back to controlling their borders and decide for themselves who they let in and who they don't. They can make trade agreements themselves without being stuck in the suffocating straitjacket of the EU's customs union. They are approached by half the world, including the United States and China, to conclude trade agreements. This is something that the EU has been working on for many years, but it has always failed, because of the fact, of course, that all these different countries of our beautiful Europe, all those different countries that are printed in that EU label body, have completely different interests. One size fits no one. We see this in every aspect of the European Union. The British now finally have a chance to get out of it. Again, bravo! Since the Brexit Forum for Democracy, which was incredibly beautiful almost a year ago, has been constantly calling for an open, constructive attitude towards the United Kingdom, in which the Dutch commercial interests stand first and not the EU interests or the personal prestige of Juncker, Verhofstadt or whatever the apparatus of the Brussels usurpation force is called. We are therefore pleased that Prime Minister Rutte has finally followed the advice of the Forum for Democracy and is now moving forward with Denmark and Ireland, countries which, like the Netherlands, have great trade interests in the United Kingdom. We must now stand up for our own interests, our own entrepreneurs, our own agricultural sector and our own fishing industry, instead of trying to get rid of Jean-Claude Juncker in the hope of another place in the Brussels job carousel. A thriving United Kingdom will show the world that it is possible to be successful outside the suffocating EU, that there is an exit strategy and that it is possible to emerge and maintain borders under the yoke of Schulz in this continent, this precious Europe that has been so immensely weakened by the ever-increasing EU and its attack on the nation state. Indeed, this is the second subject we are discussing tonight, and the outcome of the Turkish plebiscite shows that we have a huge problem with the integration of Turkish Dutch people. The borders are still wide open because of the EU, while the results of the Turkish vote show that we have a huge problem of integration. More than 75% of the Dutch-Turkish voters voted for Erdogan. In the United States, it was the other way around. Only 15% of the Turks voted for it. Failing integration policy. Failing immigration policy. In addition to exit from the suffocating European Union, following the example of the British Democracy Forum, the cabinet wants to make a serious contribution to integration at last, i.e. to assimilation of the immigrants coming to this country in mass waves. The cabinet only writes about additional courses for imams and extra dialogue. Seriously? Is that our government's vision? If after two, three and sometimes four generations it has still not succeeded in making these people proud Dutch, then the policy fails. Then the policy does not fail a bit; then the policy fails completely, across the board. Three quarters of teachers in schools in large cities indicate that integration has completely failed. In crime my party colleague Theo Hiddema has many examples of this in the care, in the assistance, everywhere we see the problems. Second Generation Turks are almost twice as often unemployed as first generation Turks, according to CBS figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u123	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u124	Last sentence. Second Generation Turks are more than twice as often suspected of a crime as first generation Turks. 40% of Turkish Dutch people say they do not feel at home in our country. How does the cabinet plan to reverse these developments and how will the cabinet convince the new generations of the importance of our Dutch values? I'd like a reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u125	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u126	I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u127	Mr. Chairman. In the distribution of roles, the idea was that I would answer the questions about Brexit, with the exception of questions about EURATOM, helpdesk and information law. Those three questions will be answered by the Foreign Minister. Then I will do the questions about the Brexit including the impact on the future of the European Union. The Foreign Minister will then answer questions about Turkey. The specialization to the aspects of integration will be taken up by the Minister for Integration, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. A lot of questions have been asked. I will not tire you of general introductions, because you know how we feel about Brexit. We're against it, but it's happening. We must deal with it as best we can and the Dutch interest is paramount. The first question is about maintaining the unity between the 27 EU Member States. We'll work hard on that. I agree with groups, including those of D66, but also those of 50PLUS, that it is important to preserve unity. I also notice that this is what colleagues want. It is important that the process set out by the President of the European Council should be maintained over the coming period. This means that we are first moving step by step towards discussing the guidelines in the European Council and then towards a more detailed mandate in which the Member States must, of course, be able to agree. That is in the best interest of all of us. We will strive to arrive at a clear position. Of course, it is also a question of what this means for the interests of the people. Is there any prospect of a partial agreement on citizens' rights? These citizens' rights are paramount. There's no doubt about that. We will do our utmost to ensure that at least people's rights do not become the child of the account. That is why it is good to see that the Commission and the European Parliament, but also the United Kingdom, consider this to be a high priority. This must be regulated in the Article 50 agreement. Nor are we committed to a partial agreement. We must reach agreement on the whole package and not on partial agreements. That's not gonna work. Then the question is whether the British elections really do not affect the EU preparations. I don't think so. We are now going to establish it on 29 April. The elections are on 8 June. In May we will also have time to convert the guidelines into a more detailed mandate for the Commission. So if there is any delay, it will be limited to one or two weeks, my expectation is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u128	Just on the subject of the Dutch in the UK and the British on the mainland and in Ireland. The Prime Minister says that he is not aiming for a partial agreement, but in his letter he says that he is aiming for speedy clarity. The British Government is also seeking speedy clarity. Now I don't really care whether that is in a partial agreement or in a unilateral arrangement, but can the Prime Minister be a little more specific about what kind of clarity these people can get in the future? For many people it is unclear whether they do not lose all rights at once when the Brexit is finished in two years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yes, we do not want that, but there are, of course, many aspects of Brexit: fisheries, trade, military cooperation and cooperation in the context of anti-terrorism, the whole embezzlement in the internal market and the interests of EU citizens. It is impossible to conclude a partial agreement on one aspect, and I am pleased that Mr Omtzigt shares that view. Everything's connected. The speed is, of course, paramount, but I cannot say here what the speciality of the guideline will be towards the more detailed negotiating mandate, because I am now giving away too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u130	I understand that we are not yet seeing this speciality, but I would like to return to these EU citizens and British citizens who know that all their rights, for example, to work or live somewhere, can be removed in exactly two years' time, and that they only hear a day in advance whether that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u131	We are going to do everything we can to prevent that, but I cannot guarantee that now, because everything is connected with everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u132	It is not a guarantee, it is a matter of how you strive to ensure that those people are given some form of clarity at an earlier stage. You can't say, "I'm waiting until the very last moment." If you do, I would like you to have a word with Mr Wiebes with the DBA Act or with other files. You can't keep people waiting until the last minute to find out if they're allowed to live somewhere and, if not, tell them to leave immediately. That's an impossibility. What exactly is the commitment to ensuring that these people are treated properly? It concerns several million citizens of the Union and of the UK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr Omtzigt is standing here like I made it up. I didn't think of Brexit. Brexit invented the British. Another interrupter is very excited about it, but I'm not. It really is a disaster for everyone involved. What Mr Omtzigt rightly asks is: how do you ensure that there is clarity on many aspects as soon as possible? This is a very important aspect; we agree on that. I also agree with Mr Omtzigt's wording: you should not seek a partial agreement, but clarification as soon as possible. I can philosophize about what I hope for the next few weeks and months, but we need to talk to 28 countries about this. It also depends on the UK itself. It is my impression that this is a subject that everyone wants to be properly dealt with, precisely for the reasons that Mr Omtzigt has indicated. But that's all I can say right now. This is all I know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u134	Is it true that Mrs May has given the impression that there may be a first, higher priority for the citizens? The Dutch in England did not ask for the Brexit or for years of uncertainty about their accumulated pension rights. Will the Prime Minister also pay particular attention to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u135	We are going to pay attention to everything, but once again, it is a real disaster that we are facing over the next two years, and we are going to try to manage it as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u136	From the Forum for Democracy we can reassure the Prime Minister: it will not be such a disaster. Don't worry about it. We would like to support the Prime Minister: that whole issue of citizens' rights will not be an issue. All parties have indicated that they simply want to retain those rights. This will undoubtedly be included in an agreement. Mr. Omtzigt is crying crocodile tears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u137	I'll take this as a runaway. I'm going on. How did the guidelines come about? These have been drawn up by the Council Secretariat, which has consulted the Commission and the negotiators. All Member States have been pulsed in advance. It has been discussed with all the Member States. Member States have also actively lobbied. We have seen this with Spain, among other things, when it comes to Gibraltar. The first text was shared with the Member States on 31 March. We then shared them with the Chamber. Then there is the European Medicines Agency, EEA. You can see that almost all European Member States are interested in housing the EEA. It is difficult to predict who will be the biggest competitors. After all, there is still a lot of uncertainty about Brexit, so also at this point. The Netherlands is very interested to bring this to us. Tomorrow we will come forward with further information. I cannot, of course, share the entire competitive playing field with the Chamber at the moment. It is clear that the Netherlands is a good candidate. Why is that? Because we have excellent infrastructure and international connections. You can also see this with many British institutions, banks and other companies, who are interested in coming to the Netherlands. That's not so crazy: we have a lot to offer here. We are also an extremely interesting country for foreign knowledge workers, because of our good facilities in terms of health care, our international education, our security. Your children can safely ride their bike to school and also come home safely. I refer to the general control of the English language. The Medicines Evaluation College is one of the EEA's main knowledge providers. In itself, we have good papers, but we also have excellent competitors. This brings me to the question of the future of the Multiannual Financial Framework, the MFF, the Multiannual Financial Framework. The Chamber knows our views. That is that when a salary falls away in a household, the household budget has to be adjusted accordingly. The British salary is falling, so we believe that Europe's household budget needs to be adjusted accordingly. This means that with one Member State less is also a smaller EU budget. At the same time, I also hope that we can work towards a better EU budget. I tried that last time. At that time it was possible to make sensible financial arrangements, but in my view there was not enough modernisation in that budget. We're gonna try to get there next time. Of course coalition formation is important. That is what we have already started in our Presidency. At D66's intercession, there was also a major conference. We will continue with this in the near future. Then there is the question of what British retirement means for the European Union's existing mixed agreements with third countries. In general terms, the UK remains a party to the treaties after retirement, because it has signed itself. The impact on the concrete rights and obligations of the United Kingdom and the European Union depends on the Treaty in question. Let me give you an example. The United Kingdom is a party to the climate agreement. The Brexit itself doesn't change that. On 18 November 2016, the UK deposited an instrument of ratification and became a party to the Climate Agreement. Each European Union Member State shall be responsible for its own emission levels separately and together with the European Union. This means that the UK remains a party to the Convention and is responsible for the level of emissions, even if it is no longer an EU Member State. Anyway, that's one example. What will be the effects on various other treaties in the near future will have to be looked at on a subject-by-period basis as well as on a period-by-period basis. That is very complex and much remains to be determined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you for the clarity surrounding the climate agreement. Of course, it was mainly mixed agreements such as the association agreement with Moldova or with Ukraine. That will at some point have to get rid of Britain's signature. Britain, for example, is in the customs union and they are not going into it. So they can't stay a party anymore. At the time when Britain is leaving that association agreement, should the amended association agreement or protocol to that association agreement or not be re-raised by the Dutch Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u139	It's different from one treaty to another. We're really gonna have to look into that. That's all very complex and all part of the conversations. You can't make a general rule about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u140	A little more clarification, though. It will be quite different from the climate agreement, but this is a very specific question that has also been raised in the written preparation. At that time, it was said that there was still no clarity, but this can simply be clarified by law. It does not depend on the negotiations, but on the legal arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u141	This also depends on the negotiations, because, of course, part of the negotiations will be the question of how the UK will relate to all these types of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u142	No. You, like the European Commission, have said before that the UK cannot remain a member of the Association Treaty with Ukraine, because it has co-signed as a member of the European Union. So the question is whether or not the association agreement or protocol to that treaty should be re-approved by the Dutch parliament at the time the UK leaves the association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u143	That's not to say. That really depends on what agreements are being made. There will be treaties in which the UK can remain involved, but there will also be treaties where that cannot be done. It is quite conceivable that further agreements should be reached on the conventions which do not allow this to happen on how the UK can remain involved in these agreements in a legally binding way during a transitional period or in a structural manner. This must then be weighed in the light of the agreements that have been made here and in other parliaments when certain agreements and association agreements become part of parliamentary approval. It is therefore a very wide range of possibilities and therefore you cannot give an answer in a general sense. That's all part of the conversations that have yet to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u144	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mr. Chairman. Mr Omtzigt also asked a question about the vulnerable sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u146	Before you continue: Mr Omtzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u147	I would like to receive an analysis of what happens to these association agreements when they leave. We have now asked this question several times. I get that you're not answering him properly the first time, or at least you don't have the answer ready immediately, but is the government willing to just describe what's going on in a couple of weeks? Because that means a lot to the new treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u148	I can't. I just explained that. I refer to the previous answer. Really, I just explained why I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u149	Then I'm going to see Mr Verhoeven, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u150	If you hear an explanation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u151	Good. Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u152	Let me just say a few words about this budget. I understand that there are other priorities now, that it's all a disaster, that it's super complex and that this isn't the first thing you can put on the agenda right now, because there are other things. But there is one thing: there will be many countries that say they want to pay less. That means that perhaps there is a movement to do something about that budget now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u153	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u154	The Prime Minister has been around for some time and understands the timing, the conversations and the moments. I only ask him to take that opportunity when there is a chance of bringing it in and starting a movement, because I think that the moment when the budget is down is perhaps the only time we can manage to make the budget better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u155	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u156	I am pleased with the answer, but I hope that this will continue, because it is a great opportunity within the crisis that we may have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u157	The odds are there, but it can converge and diversify. But let's face it: there's a chance, and when the chance comes, we'll just pick it up. Then we row to the side and see what we find.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u159	But it could be a plus or a minus. The plus may be that under pressure from the reduction you manage to modernise. The minus may be that everyone in the headlights of the upcoming car will look and retreat to their familiar themes. This is how France can say: ho, my agriculture! And: you subsidise from the Brussels pot about every postman in France. And countries in Eastern Europe say: yes, it is wonderful that we get all that money from the Cohesion Fund and so on, but we absolutely do not want it to be linked to performance indicators, to name but something I would like. So as far as that goes, there's a chance. If it occurs, we'll take it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u160	I hear the Prime Minister mainly about modernising the budget, but can he also guarantee that modernising in no way means that the gap struck by the United Kingdom will be passed on to the Netherlands, not even in the sense of generating revenue, for example by introducing European taxes? My second question is this. Is there any discussion in the European Council or in any other context about what happens to the composition of the European Parliament after the Brexit? There are 73 MEPs from the United Kingdom in the European Parliament. Now we are discussing the numerical number of these in various committees, and the Council must finally give a blow to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u161	The latter might be possible, but I would like to be briefed on how the EP is doing and whether the Council has a role to play in this. But you say it with so much authority, I assume you're sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u162	So you'll get back to me in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u163	Yeah, or maybe even in the first term when it comes on time. As far as the other question is concerned, our starting point is clear. I just said it with the metaphor: if an income falls away in the household, you have to cut back. We really do. I can't give any guarantees; this will be part of the conversations. But the view of the Netherlands and it applies to many other countries, it is a broad coalition that if 16%, 17% leave, the ceiling will also have to be reduced by 16%, 17%. Of course, that's our commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u164	To return to the first point, the composition of the European Parliament: perhaps the Prime Minister could take up the commitment that the cabinet intends to make in his reply. For it seems logical to me that if a country disappears from the European Union, 73 Members of Parliament disappear and, as some MEPs suggest, there is no redistribution of the number of seats among the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u165	So far, the European Parliament has only grown, but we are going to see if a reverse movement is possible here too. I understand that the Member of the Party for Freedom would appreciate that. I even get that. Mr. Chairman. Then the question has been asked about vulnerable sectors. After Ireland, the Netherlands has the most interlinked economy with the United Kingdom. We are neighbouring countries, trading partners and mainport to the continent. Research has been carried out on the interlinking of economies and the possible effects. They can get up pretty good, can't they? The Central Planning Bureau has looked at it as well as the Central Statistical Office. That is also one of the reasons why we want to ensure that good coalitions are also closed in Europe, in the Dutch interest. I will also discuss this on Friday with colleagues from Ireland and Denmark, also a country that is closely linked. This brings me to the fishing industry. I understand the questions about it. I am, of course, concerned about this; it is an important sector. But we need to be a little careful that we don't take out one sector. We agree on the importance. I also have that in focus; I come from Scheveningen for a reason. It is also a point which the British themselves regularly discuss. We will therefore be committed to reducing the damage as much as possible. But the paradox now is this: if you decide to make fishing a priority, what is being asked here, you might be able to fish completely behind the net. If you pick up your nets, you won't find much. We must therefore be careful not to say too quickly that fishing is important. Yes, we agree on that, but making it a priority can also mean that you are not doing the sector any service. I think it may be very useful to ensure a broader balance of interests, so that landing rights, the whole issue of aviation and cooperation in many other areas are well-balanced. That was actually Mr Ten Broeke's question. He wanted to know how we're gonna keep the business going. There are two phases in the conversations, as we know. The first phase concerns citizens, money and borders. As soon as we see sufficient progress, we move on to the second phase. There is also the possibility of a transitional period, if necessary later. But of course we want to ensure that the Dutch interest prevails over the whole of the pace, the structuring of the talks. I think I have answered all the questions about Brexit. That brings me to the questions about the future of the European Union. As you know, there is a White Paper from the Commission. That is not a blueprint; it is five scenarios in which nothing is done up to and including a fully federalised Europe, indicating the extremes. All these scenarios and the underlying lines will be discussed in the coming period. I believe that this should lead to input for the state of the union speech by the President of the Commission in September. I will outline in a moment how the Dutch Government looks at the future of the European Union, but I see that there is a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u167	I heard the Prime Minister say he thinks he answered all the questions surrounding the Brexit. My question, however, is how he assesses the difference in the way in which the Prime Minister of Great Britain responded to the referendum there and the way in which he himself responded to the referendum that was held a few months earlier in the Netherlands. That is very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u168	He's gone and I'm still here. That's right. So that's very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u169	So the question is what does the Prime Minister think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u170	I think that's a good outcome. For me, then. Well, I don't know what you want. We had a referendum on Ukraine. Then the question was how we, as the Netherlands, dealt with it. We have responded by ensuring that the referendum could not be a reason to continue as if nothing had happened. It was intended to lead to a clear negotiated outcome in Brussels on how to deal with that association agreement. It worked. It has now also been adopted by law through the Dutch Parliament. We have therefore given a substantive answer to the many concerns that have been identified in that referendum, because I felt it was in the Dutch interest to find that way out, that is the task of the Prime Minister, together with Bert Koenders, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We were very motivated for that. On the one hand, that way out was to address the great concerns that emerged in the referendum and, on the other hand, to ensure that the Netherlands, in relation to Europe, does not contribute to weakening Europe where, for example, a strengthening of Europe is needed, in relation to Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u171	Surely the Prime Minister can't seriously believe that he took the no vote seriously? No one has ever taken that inlay seriously. It was not sent around to the other European countries. Ukraine has not co-signed it. It has not changed the text of the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u172	I do not share that view at all. This was discussed in detail here before we had the pleasure of having Mr Baudet here with us. It has now led to the adoption of the relevant legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u173	I have another question about corporation tax. Moreover, after his remarks on fisheries, I understand what he puts at the top of the list and perhaps a little lower. Is he going to include a clear position on the prevention of a race to the bottom with the rate of corporation tax in England? I would point out that in the election campaign the Labour Party, I think Mr Asscher himself, made a big point of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u174	My question is who does that race to the bottom, the UK or us. What is Mr Van Rooijen afraid of?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u175	I'm afraid, with my colleague Asscher now, it's getting used to; we're both laughing about it for a race to the bottom. Mr Dijsselbloem and Mr Asscher also made this clear in the campaign. I do not quite understand the Prime Minister's question as to whether I was referring to the rate in England or the Netherlands. I was referring, of course, to the fear that this would become a very common negotiating point in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u176	I find it complicated. I think the Vpb is a national competence. That's not our call, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u177	Yes, but a race to the bottom is a very risky thing for all European countries, especially the Netherlands, in the close connection in the relationship that the Prime Minister himself mentioned. There's only a small North Sea in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u178	Corporate tax is an important factor in companies' decisions to settle somewhere. I see this now in my contacts with many companies in the UK who are considering coming to the Netherlands. Of course, they're looking at the Vpb's fare. They also look at the basis: how wide is it? They also look at many other factors. If England decides to dramatically reduce the Vpb, it does not automatically result in companies staying there. Look at all the U.S. banks that are currently in the process of transferring a lot of activities. For example, they look at Amsterdam, Frankfurt, Paris or Dublin. In one case Madrid is also involved, but most of the time Amsterdam and Frankfurt are looked at. That is an aspect, but certainly not the aspect. It is important for them to have access to the European market. It is also important that the wider social environment, the business environment, is good. Then the Netherlands has a lot to offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u179	I agree with the Prime Minister, but I would like to point out the Irish example. Ireland has had an extremely low rate for a long time. This has led to a great departure of economic activities from the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u180	The Prime Minister said: as far as I am concerned, we are going to enter the negotiations as an EU-27 unit; we are holding on to each other. That seems to me to be a very good starting point. He also outlined, among other things, with the example of the medical institute, where several of the 27 countries are in competition with each other, and he also mentioned banks and companies that we will sometimes compete with each other, whether we like it or not. Will the Prime Minister at the European Council try to make agreements with his 26 colleagues to prevent this race to the bottom not with the UK, but with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u181	Not about the agencies, no. That is normal competition between Member States, and I do not mind. You have a prayer book and you say: come to Holland. Another guy wears his best suit and says, "Come here, I don't know." Yeah, that's how it works. I don't think that's wrong. That's normal competition. There should be no competition based on stage 1, the unbundling and phase 2, the future relationship. We need to hold each other there as best we can. That will not always be easy, because of course there are different interests. Ultimately, it is important to keep the unity, including in the relationship with the UK, and not let it get you into the map. When I speak to the Irish and Danish colleagues on Friday, it is to talk to countries that are very affected in the economic sense by the Brexit and not, as has been suggested here and there, because we want to damage unity. On the contrary, we want to do our best to promote unity, also by making the interests sound.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u182	Indeed, I do not think it would be against everyone putting on their best suits. Then we're gonna compete on that. But there are things you might be tempted to compete with that are not ultimately in your own interest, such as financial supervision, tax regimes and undoubtedly a number of other things. That might be a good thing to make agreements between the 27 about not doing that. Does the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u183	The point is: the better should not be the enemy of the good. The risk if you want to capture it too much is that you'll have a whole discussion. I am just saying to Mr Van Ojik: there is more than just money. It will cover not only taxation, but also all kinds of social and environmental issues. That all of which are now to be recorded in detail is, in my opinion, becoming terribly complicated. What you have to achieve is that the countries realize that we are strong together. But you must realise that countries such as Belgium, Ireland, Denmark and the Netherlands, for example, can suffer serious damage if this does not end well. Conversely, other countries will be very concerned about the future of their defence cooperation or other aspects. I call Gibraltar. I can name so many things. As long as we all realize that everyone has different interests, but to make it a success, we have to stay together, I'm not so worried about it. I'm afraid that if you define completely in detail "you can't do that and I can't do that," you might destroy the unity, by making it so explicit, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u184	Now there has been some talk about the mini-top and the joint raising. But I had asked whether the government would agree that it would be a good idea to use a tax treaty or at least to make agreements between the European Union and the United Kingdom, precisely so that what we are now building on the Panama Papers and the rules that are included in the OECD do not collapse again. I haven't heard an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u185	I find that complicated. Phase one is the unbundling. After that, we need to shape the future relationship. This could be the nature of an extensive free trade agreement. That could be all kinds of other options. This may or may not include the whole issue of taxation. In the current European Union too, taxes are, to a large extent, a national competence and not a matter for the European Union or for the 28. So I can't really estimate exactly what the space is for that. That you are talking about the OECD standards and that you want to maintain them with each other, and that you want to try to work together on what we are doing with 28 now in the field of letterbox companies and unwanted constructions, in a future relationship with the UK, I can imagine. But it depends very much on how successful the first phase is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u186	There's a lot of things out there that don't make sense. I realize that. But I would be so pleased if, if you have mentioned this unbundling and you are talking about the new relationship, you would keep saying: listen, those new standards that are there to tackle tax avoidance, which we are harming and which are damaging to developing countries, we are maintaining them and we are keeping the United Kingdom to that. So that's what we're doing ourselves. That is the question I asked in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u187	It's a little motherhood and apple pie. "Yes" would be my answer. I would like it all to be part of those further agreements. But can I guarantee that here? Can I lay down a result obligation here? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u188	I don't think anyone asked. I did mention another element. In the process of building up the negotiating strategy, we see from both sides that things are being put on the table that are once again being called into question by the other. That is a negotiating strategy that could lead to a divorce. I asked the Prime Minister: how does he see it when it gets all stuck? Would there be a scenario that you could ask an independent negotiator, for example? Is that one of the things he can talk about at the upcoming EU summit with the 27? Or does he say, "Who lives, who cares?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u189	Binding arbitration was the biggest problem the SP had with TTIP. You are now proposing the...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u190	That can be a democratic decision, and the Prime Minister is well aware of that, at least at the moment of a divorce, which will be detrimental to citizens and businesses, both in the United Kingdom and in the European Union, being wise and saying: okay, there are other people who are taking over the negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u191	I don't want to speculate on that right now. In general, I agree with Mrs Leijten that if both sides have such a great interest in ending these talks and the heat is increasing, we should keep cool minds everywhere. But what form does it take and whether it goes as detailed as it is outlined here? I really do not dare to say that. At that point it is still early enough to say: hey guys, time-out, this is not going well; should we take a step back? That's how you always do it in conversation, when it freaks out and when it doesn't freak out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u192	Oh, excuse me, you weren't finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u193	I had one more question to ask you. I was still working on the future of the EU. But we have already had so many debates on this, that I can also simply refer to those debates. I don't have any new messages to report on this right now. I can answer the question from the PVV on the European Parliament. That must come with a proposal itself. There isn't yet. Then it is up to the Council. This must then be agreed unanimously. The Netherlands is undoubtedly the case: a smaller EU is a smaller budget and a smaller European Parliament. I think we can agree on that. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u194	Yeah, well said, I hear the reactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u195	A smaller Commission also means one less Commissioner, Mr Verhoeven. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u196	I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u197	Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer three more questions that I have been asked about the Brexit and then refer to the referendum in Turkey. Is the Cabinet prepared to set up a help desk where companies and citizens in the UK can ask questions? That helpdesk already exists, because that is our embassy in London. Although much remains unclear, our embassy tries to inform the Dutch community as actively as possible. We really do; that's what our embassy is doing, for example through the website. Frequently asked questions are answered. In addition, this site contains references to other information points. As soon as it becomes more clear during the negotiation process, we expect that this will be especially the case in the first phase as regards citizens' rights, then the embassy will, of course, increase and intensify this information. Mr Omtzig asked about the right to information. Last week we were able to speak extensively in a closed briefing. I also mentioned how important it is for the government to take the Lower House, by the way also the Upper Chamber, but primarily the Lower Chamber, and to inform as fully as possible about all the steps we take in the context of the Brexit, because there are so many interests at stake. As discussed in that briefing, the use of the cabinet is an optimal provision of information to the Chamber. The agreements on the provision of information between the Commission and the Council and within the Council are still to be adopted in Brussels. I have also given a timetable for this. Nevertheless, we are also prepared, as we did last week, to inform the Chamber very precisely, including the balance of power in Europe and the game that is being played, to say the least. The cabinet's commitment is clear: we are pulling on the same side of the rope. We will ensure that the Chamber has the same information position as the European Parliament, of course. We are also working, as the Chamber knows, since I made that decision last week, but I can also say publicly here to make sure that the documents related to the portal become available to the House of Representatives in a good way. Of course, we will continue the debate on this. Then I come to Euratom. This is not mentioned in particular in Article 50, but permanent membership of Euratom after Brexit is a legal and political problem. British notification shows that the United Kingdom intends to leave Euratom. We are therefore counting on this to be part of the negotiations. Then I come to the questions about the Turkish referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u198	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer on that helpdesk. I understand very well that it could go through the embassy. It was said: it is already very good, but it can be intensified and there is also a good website. I was just clicking on that website. There's a cup of "brexit" and then you get to an almost empty page. Given the number of people who will come up with these kinds of questions, I do think that if we let it go through the embassy, you can make it more communicatively clear that this is the place where they can go. You can also improve this in your communication and on the website. There is absolutely room for improvement. I will not now come up with any heavy room motions to improve that, because I know that the cabinet wants it. But then it has to happen, because it's just a practical point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u199	Very. I would just like to see if that can be improved. I would also like to keep the Chamber informed. That's no problem at all. At present, that website also functions to answer questions. So if someone asks an individual question, it will be answered immediately, but I have no problem checking whether that works properly. That will be intensified over time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u200	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u201	But your call is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u202	May I make a suggestion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u203	A suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u204	I suggest you take a look at the D66 website. On that site you can see very well how you can clearly refer people to the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u205	Thank you very much, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u206	Let me see if I can ask a question and how quickly I can get an answer to that. We'll compare that to the embassy in London. I come to the important referendum in Turkey. The government wrote about this in the letter we sent you. As you have all seen, a narrow majority of the Turkish population voted in favour of the amendments to the constitution in the referendum. At the moment the AK party celebrates the victory, but the opposition doubts whether the result is valid. The referendum is being challenged. Even today there are all kinds of movements in the Turkish political system. CHP objects to the result in 1,900 ballot boxes in Istanbul. There are a number of parties who also have other criticisms of the referendum. You are aware of the views of the OSCE and the concerns of the European Union, the Venice Commission and the Council of Europe. All sorts of procedures are still under way. It is clear that, for the Dutch Government too, we have also mentioned this in the letter, and the observers' judgements are important, as are the way in which they are handled. The official publication of the results is still awaited. It'll formally follow in two weeks. Nevertheless, on the basis of the results, whatever they may be, you can see the enormous divisions in Turkish society. That is what the Dutch Government is concerned about, because Turkey is a pivot country, also geopolitics, with which we have a great deal to do. This is still separate from the accession negotiations, which I shall, of course, come back to. It is worrying that the great divisions between town and country, between young and old and between high and low educated in all kinds of forms are expressed in Turkey. We are awaiting the way in which this division will be dealt with. We've seen a little less of that right after last year's coup. At that time, the European Union called for greater unity, but that did not actually happen. You are also aware of the Dutch Government's criticism of aspects of the constitutional changes. That is not only the criticism of the Netherlands. This criticism has also been reflected in the work of the important Venice Commission. I call the risk of a lot of power in one person, a president who is at the same time party leader and government leader. You could say that there is a lack of checks-and-balances, to put it in good Dutch. The Netherlands shares these concerns with the European Union, the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe and the OSCE. We have also expressed our concerns about the circumstances in which the referendum took place. It is not just about the census, but also about the environment in which the referendum took place. I refer, for example, to the state of emergency. However, it is not just a matter of a state of emergency, as I say to the DENK Group, but also of the intimidation of journalists and independent thinkers that took place at the same time. It certainly wasn't easy for the camp to campaign very freely. We therefore support and call on the Commission to carry out a transparent investigation into the alleged irregularities in the referendum. Fortunately, we are not alone in this. Together with colleagues in the European Union and the Council of Europe, we have expressed our concerns about the constitutional changes. As far as we are concerned, the Turkish Government will have to take into account these concerns, the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the division of Turkish society until 2019. I believe that further polarisation in Turkey is the greatest risk. The European Union will have to make a critical assessment of this further process. That is the way it should be; just for the clarity of the procedure. As you know, negotiations with Turkey on accession are comatose. On the basis of discussions we have had with the Chamber before, you know that they have actually been shut down. I think this is important. No chapters have been opened since 30 June. I'm sure it'll stay that way. This was also the commitment of the Netherlands, formally laid down in the EU Presidency conclusions of 13 December. That is the current state of affairs. It is now a question of examining what this referendum means and what will happen in the coming months with regard to the Copenhagen criteria. That is why I asked the European Commission for an investigation. I would like to say straight away that it sometimes seems to be a great wish of President Erdogan that the European Union should pull the plug in the accession negotiations. I believe that Mr Van Ojik has put that very well. It's almost a game: pull the plug in Europe. Of course, it doesn't work that way. I have no fear whatsoever, as I say here this evening, that the European Union will not look very much at its significance for the Copenhagen criteria. We have shown this in the case of visa liberalisation, which is not progressing in any way at the moment, precisely because the criteria are being kept so strictly. We have seen that the nature of this constitution certainly does not make it easier. On the contrary, it is more difficult for Turkey to become a member of the European Union. But first things first. If that is what you want, and the Dutch Government is not taking a position on it at the moment, this means that the Commission is in a position to do so. That is why the Dutch Government has directly asked the European Union to investigate this precisely. That is also the way it should be, because every subsequent proposal also depends on a Commission proposal, which should then be adopted by qualified majority. I believe that the EU unit is essential in this respect. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. If you are dealing with a country like Turkey, whatever you think of it, and however you stand in this discussion, the EU unit is essential. Turkey is and remains a strategic partner of the European Union, whether you like it or not. I can't move the country geopolitics. We work together in the field of counter-terrorism. The future of Syria is also in Turkey's hands, including in the fight against terrorism. We have already had debates with the Chamber on how risky it is if there is no such cooperation. The same applies to the management of migratory flows. But let there be no misunderstanding: that does not mean that we are being held hostage on principles. This is also reflected in the actions of the Dutch Government during the referendum campaign and the way in which we have acted against Turkish ministers' visits. It is also clear from our punishment for visa liberalisation. If we do not want to abandon the people with a different view of Turkey's future, then it is important that we stick to the rules ourselves. This means that a broad consensus must be reached within the EU on the positioning of the current regime in Turkey. This is the view both of those countries that are traditionally committed to the rule of law and human rights, such as Germany and Sweden, and of those that are always critical of Turkey, such as Cyprus and Greece. Only Austria wants the European Union to pull the plug. We feel nothing for a quasi-all entrance to the Netherlands. This harms our interests and does nothing at all in Brussels, let alone in Turkey. It is precisely now that it is important to continue to exert influence, but I would point out that we are extremely critical of developments. We see that Turkish society is moving away from Europe rather than getting closer to it. In this context, we have made proposals. Mr Voordewind asked whether the introduction of the death penalty would lead to the end of the accession negotiations. I have noted that President Erdogan said immediately that he might wish to hold a referendum on this issue. Of course that is up to him, but the cabinet made it clear in this morning's letter that the reintroduction of the death penalty, as President Erdogan reiterated in that referendum proposal, is under no circumstances compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights and with the negotiation of membership of the European Union. Very sharp, that is a showstopper. Fortunately, we are not alone in this too; I am also in contact with the French and German ministers. We've operated together in the last few days in that context. Mr Omtzigt is absolutely right about the CPT report. The Netherlands has continuously committed itself to the publication of the report of the CPT, the Committee against Torture, also in contacts with Turkey. You can imagine that bilateral contacts are at present somewhat less intensive than before. Nevertheless, we do. We're not less critical. The Council did so at the request of the Netherlands in the Presidency statement of 13 December. We'll continue with this. Today I raised this issue in the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. So far, that report has not been made public. We know that Turkey is not formally obliged to do so, but I would point out that all CPT reports have always been made public. So it would only be a very bad thing in the list if that did not happen. We will continue to work for that. Mr Verhoeven asked me about arms exports. The following is to be said about this. As we know, we are not in favour of a unilateral arms embargo against NATO ally Turkey. There is no support for this either within the EU. That does not go away, as I said earlier in general consultation on arms exports, that because of developments in Turkey last year export licences to that country have been subject to extra scrutiny, which is quite unique for a NATO ally. In particular, the criteria for human rights and internal conflicts are examined. This has also led, as discussed with the Chamber, to rejections in 2016. For example, they were parts for battle helicopters, ammunition and silencers. In particular, the internal conflict in South-East Turkey posed the risk. In the framework of the Council of the European Union, I have taken the initiative to examine arms exports in greater detail and ask other EU Member States to do the same. On IPA, the Chamber and I have been in agreement for a long time. Mr Omtzigt, Mr Van Ojik, Mrs Van den Hul and others have rightly asked questions about this. As the Chamber has been mentioned on several occasions, today in the letter of the Chamber in preparation for this debate, the Netherlands has been advocating suspension for some time in the European framework. I would not like to say that there is 'insufficient support' for this; we are almost alone in it. Actually, no one thinks so. I am going to try again, but the Chamber must realize that not everyone has the same vision as the Netherlands. Governments with different political beliefs do not think it is a good idea either. I think it is important to re-examine this now in the light of current developments. I will continue to inform the Chamber about the force field in this matter. As long as it has not been suspended, the cabinet aims to ensure that IPA funds are as much as possible to the benefit of programmes that strengthen the rule of law, as I say to Mrs van den Hul. Part of this is the firmer anchoring of human rights. That's what we need right now, now that we're seeing a back door. You can see that in the past period at least that has succeeded. The strengthening and categorization of the funds means that more money is spent on this. The Netherlands can also continue to support civil society in Turkey through available resources for the Social Transformation Programme (Matra). We will certainly continue to do so at this time. The PVV Group has asked us to call on the ambassador. As we know, we have taken firm measures against Turkey in the past period. From now on, we'd rather work on de-escalation than on the opposite of that. I wasn't going to do that again. On the contrary, it is important to maintain contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u207	I don't quite understand why the Minister isn't taking action right now. Today, my group chairman was called a fascist. I was also quoting a very nasty quote from the Turkish minister. I would therefore ask the Minister once again: why not contact your colleague in office in Turkey or call on the ambassador to speak shamefully of what has been said? It's got to be the Minister's heart, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u208	I don't like those comparisons with Nazism at all. This is equally true of the statements made by the Turkish Foreign Minister on the leader of Mrs Maeijer's group. I would point out, however, that the same statements have been made about me and about the Prime Minister. I am not going to respond to every piece of Mr Erdogan's red meat. So I am not going to call our ambassador back or call on the Turkish ambassador, no matter how serious this may be. You shouldn't do that too often. Of course, there is freedom of speech here too. The same applies to the way in which we were operated on. I would like to say the following, also in the direction of the PVV Group. She is well aware that, when it came to discussing the campaign of Turkish ministers in this case towards the Netherlands, I was here explicitly. I would also like to have said this to the PVV Group. When the Foreign Minister made comments on Mr Wilders, I said that it is not up to you to interfere with Dutch elections. The same applies to Mr Wilders. That has nothing to do with my position. I am the Dutch Foreign Minister, so I am also protecting Mr Wilders. We made that clear at the time. I also made this explicit with regard to the debate and the comments made at the time in connection with the visit of the Foreign Minister. That is where the Foreign Minister stands for all the political groups and for all the freedom of expression in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u209	Apparently, his Turkish counterpart did not fully understand him. I therefore ask the Minister once again to make it clear that this is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u210	So let's be clear. I'm not happy with that statement, just separate from the whole case of the double passports. We have a different view of this than Mr Wilders. He has the freedom to say that. Here's what's interesting. If a minister in another country says something that arrives hard, then he who bounces can expect the ball. That doesn't mean we're gonna have to call everyone out. I do not think that this is very logical and consistent from the PVV Group either. But when we really got involved in domestic politics and the elections here, we stood up for Mr Wilders' rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u211	I'd like to know how much longer you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u212	I'm almost done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u213	You're almost done. I see Mr Van Ojik wants to interrupt, but it's almost a quarter to eleven. I suggest that the Minister should now answer all the questions. Thank you very much, Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u214	I was asked by the 50PLUS group whether the refugee deal is safe. Big numbers of people risked their lives in those crappy boats. I do not need to repeat the importance of this agreement with Turkey, and also the importance of Turkey itself. It also has to do with the closure of the Balkan route. I do not therefore have the impression in any way that the agreement is now in danger. At the same time, I would like to say that the Dutch Government's assessment of standards and values and the Copenhagen criteria is totally separate from the refugee deal. The Chamber has also seen this in the past period, when we took a major step towards the Turkish Government when it was necessary. The D66 Group has rightly said that Turkey is an important NATO partner. Turkey certainly is and must remain so. That NATO is under tension. Of course, President Trump's reaction to the referendum was different from that of the European allies. We don't always have to get on the same page, but we are one NATO together. We must also operate in this together. Mr Verhoeven is right in saying that NATO stands for the protection of values such as democracy, freedom of expression and the importance of the rule of law. I also think it is important that all members of the alliance uphold these values. It is therefore important to conduct the debate on Turkey, including within the framework of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, not only among themselves but also with Turkey itself. We will continue to bring this to Turkey. I would point out that both the Netherlands and Turkey see the importance of close cooperation within NATO, but that is absolutely no reason not to discuss these matters. The final question is from the SGP Group. At least I think I've answered all the questions. The new constitution contains 18 new amendments dealing with Turkey's constitutional system. That is the well-known phenomenon of moving from a parliamentary to a presidential system. So the president gets more power. There are limitations, though. For example, he should not issue decrees in the field of personal rights and fundamental freedoms. It is going in an authoritarian direction, but it is not the case that Turkey is now comparable to some very dictatorial states. Luckily, it's not that far. As with other aspects, the implementation of the new Constitution in practice will also have to be considered in relation to minority rights. Therefore, together with and through the European Commission and the Council of Europe, we will also keep a very close eye on the rights of minorities, including Christians and Kurds. The Chamber knows that's what we do. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my answer to the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u215	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u216	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by congratulating Mrs Maeijer on her maiden speech. I thought it was a good story. I very much disagree with it, but I think it represents the position of her party very well. So congratulations! Mr. Chairman. A limited number of questions have been asked on issues that have more to do with integration than with the European summit, and of course I am happy to answer them. Firstly, the question of what it says about the integration of Dutch people with a Turkish background that those who voted voted voted in favour by a majority. I think, frankly, that this is very little. For we do not know exactly what people meant to express. It's always very predicament to derive that from such a voice. I see that people in the Netherlands also vote for parties, which I do not think is sensible at all. Sometimes I think that's very unwise. I also see that far fewer people than I had originally hoped and expected voted for a party that I think is sensible. But I am not going to draw any conclusions about their integration. I like the referendum and the yes result. I can actually refer to what Koenders and several other speakers have said about this. I find it very special that you live in this free country and exercise all the rights of free democracy, i.e. freedom of expression, association and demonstration, and yet with a certain ease denying rights to others in the country where your parents or your grandparents come from or perhaps you have come from. So I like that. I do not agree with that, but it is the right of people to make their own assessment. It goes too far for me to declare the integration of the Dutch with a Turkish background for failure. I think it also wrongs the many individuals who make a very big contribution. I felt the same way about the thousands of people who behaved badly the night the minister was unwelcome. At the same time 38.000 other Rotterdammers with a Turkish-Dutch background were looking at how Feyenoord and Sparta had done it. They indicated that they were for clubs that I might not be in favour of, but that they are fully integrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u217	The Minister for Social Affairs says here tonight that he personally thinks it's crazy, "weird," he said yesterday, in front of the NOS cameras, that you live in this country with all the freedoms and fundamental rights that you can enjoy here and yet vote to restrict those freedoms and fundamental rights in another country. I wholeheartedly agree with him. I think that is also true for most of this Chamber. But this minister, who is so often moralising and who, from his role as minister, also seems to be able to be, then has no idea of 70% of the Dutch who came up with a Turkish passport who voted in favour of restricting these fundamental rights. I can't reach that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u218	I do have an opinion on this, and I think you have interpreted it well. But I do not share the view, as some of Mr Ten Broeke's colleagues have debated, that this has failed to integrate the Dutch with a Turkish background. That was not the thrust of Mr Ten Broeke's speech either. So I didn't react so much to his input on that point. But I do like that. I think that's a bad thing. I think it's a bad thing the jakamp won. I agree with what the previous speakers have said here, but I did not wish to repeat them briefly. It is extremely easy to vote here, from your free situation, to restrict freedoms in another country. But I refuse to draw conclusions from this about every individual, even if people voted for it or even voted for a party in Turkey in 2015, which I do not agree with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u219	I also do not like sweeping statements that would have directly failed the total integration. I myself pointed out in my speech that more than half of the Dutch were of Turkish origin with voting rights there, which did not show up and which, in my opinion, gave a signal. But I'll find some of that. My party likes that. I would like to see a Minister for Social Affairs who, on behalf of this cabinet, agrees with this. And if he doesn't think it's personal or personal, I hope he's going to investigate it, because I think there's something going on in this country. Last year we saw this on the Erasmus Bridge. That is what we saw on the night that this cabinet rightly said: the Turks do not matter on our territory. That is what we have seen in this referendum. I hope that the Dutch Government will make a study of this very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u220	That won't be necessary at all. I will give my opinion on this in a more general sense. Questions have been asked about this, among others by Mr Baudet. Asked is how in general the integration of Dutch people with a Turkish background is. There's every reason for concern. People do not feel at home, often feel more connected to the country of origin. I am only making a cut because I found the conclusions on this result a little too firm. Once again, not Mr Ten Broeke's conclusion, but some of the other speakers. But I will certainly deal with this issue in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u221	Maybe the Minister can go into it a little more in advance? Does he think that the 70% of Turks living in the Netherlands who voted yes to the constitutional change is a model of good integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u222	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u223	Then what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u224	I'm not gonna do much about that. That vote has been. I think that even if the results had been different, there would be every reason for concern, because it is not something new. I refer to the SCP reports, the CBS reports, the developments in recent years, which, despite attempts from all sides, from local authorities and from the government, are lagging behind people themselves. I refer to the delays in the area of socio-economic integration, but also to the delays in the area of participation, feeling at home in the Netherlands, identifying you with the Netherlands, identifying you with the values of this country. That concern is not new. It's been confirmed by this outcome before it's been lied to. However, I do not think that this outcome should in itself be given decisive importance, which is similar to the result we saw in the parliamentary elections in Turkey in 2015. So it is not a model of good integration, but it is not proof of the failed integration of all Dutch people with a Turkish background. That's too much for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u225	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u226	Then I don't think you do justice to the positive contribution that a lot of people make. The CDA asked for an overview of mosques and churches whose anbi status has been withdrawn. The power to maintain the conditions surrounding anbi lies with the Tax Administration. A publication obligation is one of those conditions. If the Tax Administration finds that conditions are not respected, that status shall be revoked. You can see through the website of the Tax Administration which institutions have such status and which do not. There is no list of institutions whose status has been revoked. You can see a few times, without being able to deal with individual cases. NRC recently reported that criminal investigations are also being carried out into the abuse of that status. But that's a sequel. In itself, we do not have a list of institutions whose status has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u227	I'm going to ask the Minister of Social Affairs about tax matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u228	That's an honor and a pleasure to meet you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u229	This is a result of the Van Vliet/Omtzigt amendment from a number of years ago, which states that this must be given online. Churches and mosques were delayed for two years in relation to other institutions. In 2014 and 2015, the Tax Administration made a good overview of how many institutions did not meet this requirement and thus lost their anbi status. That overview was there for that group, but is not there for churches and mosques now. My question is whether the Minister for Social Affairs can promote the idea that within a month or a month and a half there will be an idea whether this new group which has been added to the obligation and which now has a year and a half it is not a few weeks too late to comply with that obligation or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u230	I know the very good relationship between Mr Omtzigt and Secretary of State Wiebes, and I certainly do not want to stir it up. So I will pass on Mr Omtzigt's request to Mr Wiebes. I am sure that he will be happy to provide a written answer to this question, either in the affirmative in a summary or in a statement of reasons why that statement cannot be provided and that he will send it to the Chamber within one month. I come to Mr Verhoeven's question about the world view that can be determined by propaganda from the Turkish regime. Yes, that can certainly play a role. We have followed it over the past few months and have been able to see how there is a report about the Netherlands, about the referendum, about Koenders, Rutte and Aboutaleb. That's what's being talked about in a very harsh key. People are called one-on-one terrorists or Gülenist. That is not good and yes, a lot is being looked at, so it does have influence. We saw this in the tensions following the coup attempt in July. On the other hand, people go to school here and also have to learn that you should not just believe everything that is on TV, either on Dutch television or on Turkish television. You have to think for yourself. The world view must be wider than that of the very fanatical propaganda. But it is certainly worrying. In my view, it is an example of the shortcomings of the democratic rule of law, if you may call it that, in Turkey. The state-led media ran a fanatical campaign there. The fact that the camp was given so little space is very serious. That is also a huge difference, and I saw the little debate between Mrs Leijten and Mr Kuzu on how the referendum was conducted in Great Britain. After all, there was the government for remain and the outcome was a very different one. The CDA asked Mr Omtzigt to prosecute. We see that many declarations are about defamation for placing them on a so-called Gülen list. Those declarations were dismissed by the Public Prosecutor's Office because they were not considered criminal. It also did not meet the description of the crime "smaad." Many other declarations concerned threats, often via the Internet and difficult to identify, but sometimes also actual threats. Some of them have been investigated, but no prosecution has yet been carried out. We are working on that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u231	I see Mr Omtzigt at the interrupting microphone, but I will see if the Minister will answer any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u232	I've got a few more. It's very clear, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u233	I hope that research will be carried out at some speed, because it has been almost a year since those declarations were made. If there's a threat, it's gonna have to happen soon. So I'm gonna insist on some emergency. But I'm very concerned about that first one. It means that a strange power that collects names here through Dyanet, through people who are paid by the Turkish government, and then forwards people to Turkey if Gülenist, is not punishable. And that's when these people have felt seriously threatened. As a government, you have no way of dealing with these lists through criminal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u234	It doesn't mean anything more than I just said. The Public Prosecutor's Office ruled that it had to dismiss it because it had not found any criminal offences in the pure places on that list. Part of our rule of law is that this is an independent competence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, where we do not enter. I gave this purely as an information to Mr Omtzigt. I did not then give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u235	Mr Omtzigt, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u236	I understand that the D.A. acted independently in the matter of dismissal. I would like to leave it that way, but then I will return to the legislative power. He's with the government. It appears that the Turkish state can compile a list of names of Gülenists through the mosques and through other institutions. That list is being sent to Turkey. People on that list are currently being detained or are not allowed to leave Turkey. They're not getting welfare either. And that whole process turns out to be possible in the Netherlands without being punished for it. Does the government consider that appropriate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u237	The combination of elements of the description is to be borne by Mr Omtzigt. I can only say here that the pure placements on that list, i.e. not the consequences associated with it or the actions that have been taken around it or the securities, are not considered criminal by the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's why they've been dismissed. I cannot comment on hypothetical combinations and whether or not they can be punishable. That question was put to the D.A.'s office. It is possible that Mr Omtzigt believes that our criminal law is not enough, that a crime should be added, that the definition should be extended. That is possible, but I cannot answer such a question on the basis of this hypothetical question. I state that there have been reports of defamation that have subsequently been dismissed by the D.A. Threat reports have been filed. The D.A. is investigating that. In some cases, it ended up dead because it was an anonymous threat on the Internet. Unfortunately, that's what we're all going through. In other cases, they are seriously investigating it, but that does not mean that I am taking on board the conclusion that threats could just happen, because precisely those threats have been investigated. But the charges for defamation have indeed been dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u238	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u239	I come to another question from Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten on the implementation of the Buma motion. Does Austria not do things that we should want to do? There are two elements in it. The Buma motion calls for a halt to funding. We have looked at this and we have come to the conclusion that this mixture of religion and politics is very undesirable. We can do a number of things about that, and we do that, but going further would be contrary to our own rule of law and our own Constitution. There is indeed a difference with Austria, because in Austria they know state religions. I am well aware that this is an unsatisfactory answer, but in Austria they do not have a similar separation between church and state. Islam also has a place in the constitution and that enables it to interfere. That has advantages, but also disadvantages. It is a very different concept, which still originates from the Austro-Hungarian double monarchy. It is quite different from what we know here in the Netherlands. In our right, we cannot go any further than we are going now. That is why we are carrying out the Buma motion in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u240	In this afternoon's letter, I could not find out with which articles of the Constitution or other laws the government considers this funding to be contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u241	We do not consider funding to be incompatible with this, but the proposed ban would be contrary to Article 6 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. I come to the question of the VVD. The VVD points out that it is important to stop consulting with organisations in which Turkish Dutch are united, because at the same time they sometimes play a dubious role in relation to the freedom of those Turkish Dutch. They sometimes give them the feeling that they cannot freely make their choices and so on. I think it is very important to make a distinction and not to go along with the idea that they represent the Dutch with a Turkish background. So you should not regard them as spokesmen or representatives of all those 400,000 Dutch people with a Turkish background. I have also had the debate on this subject with the Chamber in previous instances. At the same time, the Chamber has always said: you must continue to appeal to these organisations for their responsibility in the Netherlands, precisely for combating tensions and precisely to ensure that they call each other instead of screaming and intimidating each other. So at that table I also have the organisations that are literally at war with each other in Turkey: Kurds, Armenians, Alevites, Gülenists and Diyanet representatives. I address them not to their role as representatives of the Dutch but to their responsibility in the Netherlands for promoting the Dutch rule of law, combating intimidation and threats, and the right of everyone in this country to make their choice as individuals. That is also the answer to Mr Ten Broeke's second question: how does this counter-strategy take shape? We do this, among other things, by addressing everyone in this country, every organisation and person, under the Dutch rule of law, without making any concessions. This also includes the fact that we sometimes demand that the rule of law be upheld and that the harassment, the children of school bullying and so on be waived. Is that always gonna work? Is it always satisfying? It certainly isn't. Yet I think it is part of our work to continue to appeal to organisations for their role here. One of the things that struck me during the days shortly after the incident with the minister was that all those organizations felt offended, hurt and grieved by that comparison with fascists and remnants of Nazis. Then you can see that they are more Dutch than we sometimes think, because everyone in this country feels that a comparison with that black page in our history from the mouths of a not too democratic potentate is not only misplaced, but also offensive. That was so experienced by all these organizations. I'll give it to you, knowing that that doesn't solve all the problems. It does show the tension between keeping distance on one side and addressing on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u242	Mr Ten Broeke, there is also a second deadline. There has really been almost unlimited interruptions and I will only allow a question if it is a really very short question. Otherwise, you guys really have to wait, because the minister is actually almost done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u243	Mr President, among other things, I have asked for the presence of this Minister. I'd be sad if I didn't ask these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u244	Well, I guess there's a different way of thinking about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u245	Well, I'll take that on the buy, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u246	Good. Now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u247	In Belgium, at least as I understand it, we are now considering not continuing, or even continuing at all, this institutionalized consultation which we in the Netherlands also love, and especially when it comes to really stopping organisations such as Diyanet. I would like to know what the Minister has to say. Of course there are also desirable things that are said in that table that goes on and on, and sometimes something good comes out of it. But you have to go through a different strategy. This is the way we've done it for the last 30 years, and this isn't working.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u248	Mr President, you are always right, and Mr Ten Broeke is right that I would not have missed this interruption, because I would like to respond to that. He colors it in: "for the past 30 years," "this consultation going on," "institutionalized consultation." But that's not fair. It doesn't go into what I just described. I have indicated that I need those organizations at the table when there are tensions. There's nothing institutionalized about that, that's what we do. Then I would like to quote Mr Ten Broeke himself by saying that 'it sometimes feels good' to say: we no longer talk to these organisations. But they're in the Netherlands and they have a job here. Then it is effective and realistic to address them on their responsibility here. So consistency, you shouldn't overdo it, but at least in one debate, one evening would help. No, there's no institutionalized conversation, we haven't done it the same way for 30 years. I continue to appeal to parties for their responsibility here. I do not know how the Belgians deal with this, but it seems to me that the Belgian authorities no longer have an opinion on what should be done in Belgium with regard to the individual rights of residents. If that is not the intention, it gives "a nice feeling," but no Dutchman with a Turkish background and no Dutchman without such a background has made a ball.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u249	It's not about the supposedly good feeling. The point is that we are indeed achieving results. Who, like us in the Chamber, speaks to people from the Turkish community, whether Kurds or alevites, whether they are Gülenists, or people from the AK party or people who are in favour of other parties, sees: there is unimaginably much intimidation. There is the increasing number of declarations in Rotterdam, which cannot even be followed. We need to do something other than that meeting at a table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u250	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u251	You have to go beyond just appealing to those organizations again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u252	Of course. Of course it has to go on. But then you'll come to the state's attorney's office. At the moment when there are threats and intimidation, it is really up to the channels that we have for that to do something about it. We'll soon agree on that. We can never accept that. We're never allowed to justify it. I'm just gonna continue to think it's important to sit down with all these organizations. All these organisations and all those Turkish Dutch think that you should not talk to the other organisations. This is part of the imported tensions from Turkish society. I'm not going into that. I think that's too easy. I think we should have dinner together. You share society here. You're all a resident, you're Dutch, and on that basis I'm speaking to people, not an institutionalized polder meeting. We do, but that's with employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u253	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u254	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to Eritrea. We are therefore somewhat out of the scope of the debate on the European summit. Nevertheless, the question was whether the cabinet would be willing to investigate how to counter campaigns of foreign powers. The cabinet made a clear statement about the uncomfortable feeling following last week's meeting. You should then consider when it takes the form of direct unwanted influence of foreign communities in the Netherlands or interference in home affairs. If this is noted, the cabinet will not hesitate to address the authorities concerned. In December last year the Diyanet attaché in the Netherlands wore a double hat. The Turkish ministers' campaign visits speak for themselves. As regards Eritrea's practices, which were reported last week, the government will call on Eritrea's ambassador to convey our concerns next Friday. Then we have been asked what we are doing about this long arm at European level. There is close contact with similar countries in the European Union with regard to unwanted foreign interference. We regularly discuss this and exchange information, including on the problems in the aftermath of the coup attempt of July last year. Finally. What can we say about integration? I think there are legitimate concerns. If you see that part of the Turkish-Dutch community is a group at a distance and knows a social, emotional and cultural distance to Dutch society while there are links with the Turkish-Dutch community. If you see that about half of the Turkish Dutch feel mainly Turkish and not or to a small extent Dutch. If you see that some of the young people also have a sense of exclusion and distrust of the media, politics and the police. Then all this contributes to the feeling of not being part of Dutch society. Then we have a problem. Then it doesn't go well. That is something other than that people are proud of their background or continue to feel connected with it. We think that in the Chamber it is always very charming when it comes to people with a Frisian background, but as far as I am concerned it is equally true for people who feel connected to their Turkish background. However, the situation I described before is of a different nature. This cannot be solved with one simple measure, because that would have happened long ago. In the first place, it also requires the commitment of individuals, of parents in the education of their children, of schools, but also government policies, not only towards newcomers but also towards those who are already there. It is good to note that there are also positive developments to report. The level of education is rising rapidly, especially among Turkish-Dutch young people. People are more likely to receive higher education. In recent years, school drop-out has been greatly reduced. There are therefore positive points, but there is still work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u255	Thank you. I'll see if the MPs need a second term. That's the case. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u256	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Thanks to the cabinet, too. They are also very satisfied with their answer, I notice, and are still chatting while the second term has just begun. I have a few comments to make, first of all on the Brexit. I am very pleased that the cabinet wants to shape the helpdesk a little more in a way that is also visible to citizens who have problems. I welcome the fact that, in the eyes of the cabinet, the EU budget is indeed something that can be turned to the better but perhaps also to the worse, but at least that can be reversed. I also welcome the commitment to bringing in the medicine institute, in which case we should not let competition be at the expense of unity. Then about Turkey. I think that might have been the exciting part tonight. The Christian Union just made me read a motion, the VVD just made me read a motion; D66 will not file a motion. We do have a position that does not correspond to the two motions I saw. I will probably support them, I understand them too, but I think it would be good to make a few points about where we stand. We are actually saying: be clear about later. In other words, if it actually gets as far as it looks like now in 2019, then you can also make clear statements about what you do with it. You could do that by now. So I would say: let the cabinet simply say that if this continues, the negotiations with Turkey must also be stopped. But I also understand the point about unity, research and Turkey as a partner on other dossiers. I can also understand all the objections to my contribution. But I also hope that we can provide the clarity that the Foreign Minister suddenly gave when it came to the death penalty. Then, suddenly, we could anticipate a certain development. Then it could suddenly be said quite clearly: no, that is incompatible. Actually, that's what I think applies here. It is quite clear that the Copenhagen criteria cannot go hand in hand with the constitutional changes that Erdogan advocates. Then it's about integration. Thank you for the reply by the Minister of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u257	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u258	...Social Services. The cut and the clutch weren't entirely clear to me, but I think he meant to say: it's not a good sign, but it says...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u260	...not much more about integration than we already knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u261	Yes. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt. Two minutes is really two minutes. Including the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u262	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I hope that there is a great focus on the Dutch trade fair in the UK. I assume the government will comply with that in a letter. I'm looking forward to the letter on the anbi-status with interest. I would like to hear now or at a later stage how Article 6 of the Constitution on religious freedom means that any foreign power, however unfree, could finance churches, mosques or whatever. The Foreign Minister asked me last summer to press charges. I ask him how he assesses that the D.A. has dismissed all those declarations for placing them on the Gülen Lists. Wouldn't he like to ask the national attorney to see if there is any possibility of criminalising it? Otherwise, we will be making a very strange figure here, namely that the Minister is asking to report it, but nothing will happen to it in the end. We agree on the undesirableness. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the UK's exit is the departure of a net contributor;]] [[noting that the EU has undertaken many commitments for its Member States;]] [[invites the Government to identify itself or to have the Court examined:]] [[the impact on the Dutch MFF contribution to the current MFF and the future MFF;]] [[the commitments, guarantees and debts entered into by the EU, including the ECB and other institutions, on behalf of the Member State Netherlands;]] [[and to communicate the results to the Court before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1204]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u263	My second motion is a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u264	Then you'll have to start reading right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u265	That already gives an idea of how it goes when you negotiate with four parties. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Turkish Government claims that a close majority of 51% of the Turkish population was present on 16 April last. in a referendum, voted in favour of a constitutional change which would result in a far-reaching increase of power for the President;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Venice Commission on 10 March 2017 that the amendments to the Turkish Constitution distort the separation of powers and weaken the independent rule of law;]] [[Whereas, according to OSCE election observers prior to the Turkish referendum, there has been an uneven playing field, partial information provision, arrests of journalists and obstruction of the no campaign, which does not allow a final assessment of the legitimacy of the outcome of the referendum;]] [[Whereas the Turkish Government has decided to extend the state of emergency, which continues to render elements of the rule of law inoperative;]] [[Whereas President Erdogan has announced that he will announce a referendum on the introduction of the death penalty if the Turkish Parliament does not itself decide to do so, in full awareness that its introduction is contrary to the right to life;]] [[strongly opposes the introduction of these constitutional changes;]] [[Calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to present in the short term the previously announced revised assessment of how the expected constitutional changes and their practical application relate to the status of Turkey as a candidate country of the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government to assess how the constitutional changes and their practical application relate to membership of the Council of Europe,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van Ojik and Mr Voordewind.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1205]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u266	There are five names underneath, but I wasn't allowed to read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u267	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers. There is more than just money, said the Prime Minister to my satisfaction when it came to the EU-27 joint action in the Brexit framework. He's got a good point. I therefore urge him to make arrangements in Brussels to combat competition in the field of environmental legislation, for example. I myself now choose the financial perspective. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Brexit could lead to competition between the 27 EU Member States in order to attract companies;]] [[Whereas Member States should not compete in the areas of taxation, financial supervision and State aid;]] [[calls on the government to propose to the European Summit binding agreements on competition between Member States to bring companies in,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1206]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u268	In the debate on pre-accession aid, a curious situation could arise, namely that in Brussels, unlike previous times, there is sufficient support for the withdrawal of such aid. If we are not careful, this can be done at the expense of things that we also agree with in the case of Turkey. The Foreign Minister said: we still have Matra, for example, to finance support for human rights organisations. But I would also like to see it regulated at European level. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is committed to halting EU pre-accession aid to Turkey;]] [[Considering that pre-accession aid benefits in part non-governmental organisations committed to the protection of human rights, including women's rights, Igbti rights and freedom of expression;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to at least maintaining the level of funding of NGOs for human rights in the event of the cessation of pre-accession support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1207]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u269	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of time, the three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Parliament's meeting place in Strasbourg costs around EUR 200 million a year;]] [[Whereas two agencies from the United Kingdom should move to an EU Member State;]] [[calls on the Government to make up for the deletion of the meeting location in Strasbourg and France with the establishment of the European Banking Authority (EBA) and the European Medicines Agency (EMA),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, inter alia, Member States have the scope to regulate political activities of aliens under Articles 16 and 17 of the European Convention on Human Rights;]] [[Whereas on this basis, in part on 23 March 2017, the Chamber referred to the motion for a resolution of the European Parliament and of the Council. (2151-02, No 1730), which called on the government to come forward with a proposal on how to deal with Turkey's political activities in the European Union;]] [[calls on the Government to identify the legal framework for regulating the political activities of foreigners and representatives of foreign powers in the Netherlands and to examine whether new objective criteria for such regulation are possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Member States of the European Union should be democratic states of law;]] [[Considering that Turkey has been moving in the opposite direction for years, as evidenced by the large number of journalists held in prison, the mass dismissals of alleged opponents of the regime and the many arrests among them since the failed coup, as well as the torture of prisoners;]] [[noting that Turkey has now opted for a system of government in which power is very concentrated with the President and whose rapporteur from the European Parliament says that the separation of powers is not respected;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the European Union to suspend accession talks with Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1208]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1209]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1210]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u270	Mr. Chairman. I have indeed co-signed Mr Voordewind's last one. Something had gone wrong with the alignment behind the scenes. I had prepared the same motion, but I will not table it, because it is a bit nonsense to table two similar motions. What the future will bring with the Brexit is unmistakable. We do not have an example of how to do this, but we do have a Prime Minister who has a fairly laconic attitude. I know there's no laconic attitude behind that, but I'm worried that he says a lot of things about "we'll figure it out, we'll figure it out when we get there," while there's things to look over. If he says 'a smaller European Union is a smaller budget is a smaller European Parliament', then I fully follow him in that. Then it's said: we don't want a divorce, do we? I ask the question: isn't it good to think about how you deal with that? Then the answer is: yes, we'll see. I don't think that's wise. The Prime Minister is talking about getting together with countries with common interests, such as next Friday with the mini-top he is organizing. I would like to be informed about what is being discussed and what is happening there. In fact, we in the Chamber have agreements with all kinds of rapporteurs to monitor and monitor the negotiations. Then it would be logical for us to be able to follow this mini-top.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u271	And now the motion. Did you have a motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u272	Yes, I do, and I can look at the time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u273	Okay, I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u274	I've asked for the commitment of our government. The Prime Minister wasn't clear about that. That's why I'm bringing it to the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there should be a tax war as a result of the Brexit;]] [[calls on the Government to work for a tax treaty between the United Kingdom and the European Union to prevent tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1211]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u275	On the question of the government's commitment to a deeper and fairer internal market for the next few years, we are going to have to make a difference, because Europe's future must not be more and deeper. I think we really need to go a whole other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u276	Mr. Chairman. I will welcome everyone: I have five motions. So I'm gonna start reading right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to hold a referendum on Dutch EU membership as soon as possible, i.e. next,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1212]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u277	Then I have two more motions because I am not entirely comfortable with them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the future departure of UK net contributor will be a financial gap in the future EU multi-annual budget (MFF 2021-2027);]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the financial impact of the Brexit on the EU budget is not passed on to net contributor Netherlands in any way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make efforts in the European Council to reduce the number of seats of the European Parliament after Brexit, with the 73 British seats,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Turkey is on its way to an Islamic dictatorship;]] [[Whereas an Islamic dictatorship is directly contrary to fundamental Dutch values and achievements;]] [[calls on the Government to actively commit itself to:]] [[the termination of accession negotiations with Turkey;]] [[the recovery of the total pre-accession aid received by Turkey so far;]] [[the immediate cessation of pre-accession aid to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1213]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1214]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1215]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u278	Then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 71% of Turks residing in the Netherlands who cast their votes voted in favour of the Turkish constitutional amendment;]] [[noting that these Turks living in the Netherlands used our freedom to choose a dictatorship in Turkey;]] [[calls on the government to call on these Turks living in the Netherlands to move to Turkey to live there in their own elected dictatorship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Maeijer and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1216]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u279	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their detailed reply. I have two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u280	Wait a minute. It's way too cozy between CDA and PVV, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u281	The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the European Union, the OSCE and the Council of Europe expressed a very critical view of the referendum in Turkey on 16 April 2017;]] [[Considering that in the aftermath of the failed coup in 2016, Turkey abandoned the principles of the rule of law and democracy;]] [[calls on the Government, at the next opportunity within the European Union, to re-examine the immediate suspension of pre-accession aid to Turkey,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1217]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u282	Second and final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the future of the European Union that there is broad support for the people of that Union;]] [[noting that the current working methods within the European Union do not contribute to support;]] [[calls on the Government to work within the European Union to achieve a more limited European Parliament and a smaller European Commission, as well as to end senseless moves between Strasbourg and Brussels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Rooijen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1218]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u283	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the cabinet for their explanation. I am also pleased to hear that a commitment has just been made to support human rights, women's rights and other key pillars of the democratic movement in Turkey. On the Brexit, I'd like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in connection with the Brexit, many financial institutions are preparing a departure from London City;]] [[whereas the Netherlands has the strictest bonus legislation in Europe;]] [[points out that the strict Dutch bonus legislation should be enforced and should not be adapted or stretched to attract financial institutions from the City to Amsterdam,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Leijten and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1219]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u284	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the government for answering the first-term questions of the Chamber. If we want to reduce tensions between the Netherlands and Turkey, if we want to reduce tensions between Turkish Dutch people and if we want to move forward in the relationship, then I think we need to do it in a different way, then we need to conduct the debate in a different tone and in a different way and then we need to ensure that there is a rapprochement. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Turkish Dutch people in the Netherlands and Dutch people in Turkey are currently experiencing tensions between the Netherlands and Turkey in their daily lives;]] [[considers that it is therefore very important for both countries to work to restore and maintain the 400-year-old relations between the Netherlands and Turkey in the political, political, economic, social and cultural fields;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself to restoring bilateral relations between the Netherlands and Turkey as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1220]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u285	Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid I don't have a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u286	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u287	But congratulations to Mrs Maeijer for a nice opening. I look forward to the next debate with her. The debate tonight was about, among other things, the Brexit; fortunately it was. At the same time, we see how difficult this is. When everyone here represents the best interests in the world, one sometimes loses sight of the general interest for the Netherlands. This general interest must continue to serve the government. Limiting the negotiating area is not very convenient, so let us keep that in mind. I come to the Turkish referendum. I was a little surprised at an answer I received from Minister Asscher. He said that he had been instructed by the Chamber to continue at the famous institutionalized table, but I think that my colleague Mr Azmani's motion is very clear, namely not to go through with it. As far as I am concerned, he should no longer be the leader of the integration talks, but as a leader of the debate and as a foreman of a cabinet that indicates that there is no question of negotiating with Dutch freedoms and fundamental rights, even if you have a dual nationality. In that last role we like to see him again, but as far as the first role is concerned, I would like to refer him to the motion. This was my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u288	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the rulers for answering the questions. It was not always the desired answer, but it was clear and clear. I would also like to add my congratulations to Mr Maeijer, whom I forgot to congratulate on her maiden speech in the first term. I apologize for that. I don't know if it's happened more often that after the maiden speech, someone made five motions in the second term. This is, of course, remarkable and worthy of congratulations. However, a little less motions may occasionally be. I only have one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, given the frequent use of fishing grounds in British territorial waters, the fisheries sector is particularly vulnerable to the effects of the Brexit;]] [[Whereas the protection of the fisheries sector is desirable given its unique nature and the economic interests involved;]] [[calls on the Government to designate and acquire fisheries as a priority subject and to make a commitment to the Dutch fisheries interests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Voordewind, Mr Bruins and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1221]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u289	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I will give Mrs Leijten the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u290	It is indeed about the motion in part No. 1211. The Prime Minister, who already calls, knows that by heart. That's nice! I'm changing the operative part of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u291	The Leiten motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a tax war must be avoided as a result of the Brexit;]] [[calls on the Government to work towards binding agreements between the UK and the EU to prevent tax avoidance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 1211 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u292	Mr. Chairman. The first motion by Mr Omtzigt, in part No. 1204, I don't recommend it. The first part of the motion is about a possible hole in the current MFF. I really can't say anything about that right now. It really is an assessment, which also depends on how the negotiations are going to be conducted and on the methodology. The Dutch contribution to the next MFF is still not clear, because these negotiations have not even begun. However, it is clear what the Netherlands wants. I mentioned the stakes. The second part of the operative part is not about the United Kingdom, but about the European Union as a whole and what commitments the European Union has entered into. That information is publicly available in the Millions Note and in the annual report of DNB. The obligations referred to by Mr Omtzigt when he asks about the impact of the Brexit on the MFF are of a different nature. These are obligations that each Member State has and which are contained in each national budget, including those of the United Kingdom. We do not guarantee the United Kingdom's payments. We do not include it in our budget either. That is precisely why it is so important that we get agreement on financial settlement. In other words, I would advise against the motion in part No. 1204. Mr Van Ojik's motion on item No. 1206 I must advise against. The European Union has no power to make tax treaties. On balance, I'm going to have to make the motion in part no. 1208 by Mr Voordewind. It proposes to compensate France for the deletion of the European Parliament meetings in Strasbourg by awarding the said EU agencies to France. These are really different things. We must avoid mixing these things with each other in this way. This also has to do with the decision-making process. Before the end of the moving circus, we must amend the treaties and protocol 6. All Member States must agree to this, including France. So that is really a different decision, even with a different timing, than a decision on the location of EBA and the EEA. The amendment of the motion to item No. 1211 by Mrs Leijten has led to a dramatic and fundamentally different opinion from me to the Chamber. At first I should have discouraged the motion for the same reason that I had to discourage the other motion asking for the conclusion of tax treaties, but because of the far-reaching change that this motion has undergone, I can now see that it supports policy. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Mrs Maeijer's motion on item No. 1212 I do not recommend, with reference to the many debates we have had on this issue. In Mrs Maeijer's motion and Mr Van Dijck's motion on item No. 1213 states that the government must ensure that it does so. It can't be. We don't have a result obligation. If this were to be the case, we would have to make an effort to ensure that the financial consequences are not passed on to the Netherlands, then it could be done. If the motion is not changed in that direction, if it remains as it is now, then I must dissuade her. Once again, if 'care for it' were to be changed to 'work for it', I would leave the opinion on this motion to the Chamber. But once again, no misunderstanding: as the motion now stands, I advise against her. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1214. We'll find this. This is an unnecessary motion and I therefore advise against her. For the motion in part No. 1218 by Mr Van Rooijen, once again, the need for a treaty change. As far as we are concerned, this is not a priority. That's why I advise against this motion. On the motion in part No. 1219 by Mrs Van den Hul c.s. I'm not saying anything. It's a call to the Chamber itself. That's not what the cabinet's about. So I am not giving any advice on this motion. I don't think that's appropriate. I'll come to the motion in part No. 1221 by Mr Bishop c.s. I refer to what I said in the debate and to the paradox and the risk of fishing behind the net. For all these reasons, I must discourage this motion. I would suggest that you ask Mr Koenders, Minister for Foreign Affairs, to comment on the other motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u293	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u294	Madam President. I'll start with the motion in part No. Mr Omtzigt c.s. That is a very extensive motion, with a lot of elements in it. I see that motion as a policy support. It is true that we are very concerned about this constitutional change. That was also discussed in this evening's debate. We will indeed urge the Commission to obtain its opinion in the short term. This will also be discussed next week at the informal meeting of foreign ministers in Malta. I would like to point out that the last operative part calls on the government to also assess how the constitutional change and its practical application relate to the status of Turkey as a member of the Council of Europe, which cannot, of course, be done by the cabinet alone. Monitoring the rule of law is an important tool for assessing Turkey's compliance with the obligations of the Council of Europe. I also understand that the Parliamentary Assembly will be discussing this shortly. That's a move, too. We will continue to follow that closely. In the context of this joint responsibility, we therefore see this motion as a support for policy. I now come to the motion for a resolution on part No. 1207. I've said before how complicated it is to do that. Nevertheless, I think it is a sympathetic motion. I believe that it is indeed important to make an exception for the financing of NGOs for human rights, so that they can stay up to date. I should therefore like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. The Voordewind motion in part No. 1209 I don't recommend. The government does not need a new legal framework to identify all kinds of political activities and so on. We can operate adequately on the basis of the current legislation and the policy we are shaping together. So I'm not suggesting this motion. This also applies to the Voordewind/Leijten motion in part No. 1210. I can explain this by pointing out that we support the Omtzigt c.s. motion, which contradicts this motion. I would therefore advise against this motion. Also the motion in part No. I would advise against 1215 for the reason given during the debate. In the motion in part No. 1216 The government is asked to call on Turks living in the Netherlands to move to Turkey to live there in their self-chosen dictatorship. The Chamber understands that the government strongly discourages this motion. It is a rude motion, also with regard to Turkish Dutch. So there's no hair on our heads thinking about supporting this motion. So I'm gonna dissuade her. What in the motion to part No. 1217 state, is standing policy. I should therefore like to leave it to the House to decide, saying that I have also just left the motion on the exception relating to human rights to the opinion of the Chamber. If I may interpret this motion in this way, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 1220 I don't recommend. There is no question of bilateral relations between the Netherlands and Turkey. There are. The cabinet focuses on de-escalation and on normalization of the relationship. I would like to say that to Mr Kuzu. Mr President, I have thus given my opinion on the motions for resolutions I have been asked to make. I see Mr Omtzigt getting up now. He asked me another question, but he doesn't really think I'm gonna give him another answer than the Deputy Prime Minister? The cabinet speaks with one voice when it comes to the judgments relating to the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u295	A brief question, Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u296	I asked the specific question as to whether the government is prepared to ask the state's attorney for advice on the following. The Minister of Foreign Affairs first made the public call to report if they had been placed on a Gülen list. Then the D.A.'s office dropped. That's his right. It doesn't really sound like very strong in Turkey, but let's leave that for a while. Then I would like us to think about whether this will require approximation of legislation. If it turns out that it is not a criminal offence to be placed on a list for which you can be imprisoned in Turkey, then I think that is a serious violation of freedoms. I therefore ask the government whether or not it wishes to refer this to the national attorney. The answer is very simple: yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u297	The answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u298	Thank you. I see Mrs Leijten still wants to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u299	I asked the Prime Minister another question about the mini-top. Are we going to have a report on this? Today, we have been given some sort of design and the subject matter of discussion. It seems logical to me that we should be able to get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u300	I can also answer on behalf of the Prime Minister. We will also report on this mini- summit in the report of the forthcoming European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u301	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. It's not even April 20th. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Members of Parliament, the supporting officials, the Chamberlains, the Registrars and the people who have followed this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-19-tweedekamer-8.u302	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow.
