ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	I'll reopen the meeting and ask everyone to sit down. We will continue the debate on the government statement including General Political Considerations. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr President, thank you. I would like to begin by warmly congratulating the Prime Minister and his new cabinet team. I wish all Ministers and Secretary of State every success for the coming period. I would also like to congratulate the colleagues in the coalition groups on the new coalition that is now in existence and wish them every success. I look forward to solid confrontations and wonderful moments of cooperation where it can be done. Mr. Chairman. I want to go back to last Friday. Then I had the pleasure of having dinner and speaking with Naomi Klein. Naomi Klein, the Canadian publicist and activist, known for her resistance to globalisation and the large multinationals that are constantly winning the climate and the ordinary people. The publicist talking about the bankruptcy of the political center. Someone who also says that if we want to defeat populism, we shouldn't cry with the wolves. She says we should not continue with populist correctness and stand for our ideals. If you really want to restore people's confidence in politics, then progressive people, organisations and parties together must show that there are fundamentally different choices to make. Naomi Klein says no is not enough. I would add: no is always better than continuing on a dead end. We live in confusing times. These are the words of Mr Buma. There's uncertainty, about work and about income. There is discontent, about the lack of progress for everyone. And there is mistrust, in many places but above all against us, against all of us here as politics. In those confused times I especially taste a desire, a desire for change. At last it begins to decline that it can be different and that the "there is no alternative" from the eighties, wagered by Margaret Thatcher, is coming to an end. People see that alternatives are possible and don't want to stick to the status quo cramped anymore. People see that copying populists is not the solution and that fundamentally different choices are needed in the socio-economic field. In that sense, we are at a crossroads. We're on the verge of the shore turning the ship. The political centre was always that anchor for political stability, but the same centre is now causing instability. The reason is that new populist parties are gaining ground in Europe. As far as I am concerned, the policy agenda of this cabinet is the same as in the last 30 years: lower taxes on business, own risk and market forces in healthcare, uncertainty in the labour market. This agenda is losing people's support. It's an agenda that feeds right-wing populism. It is an agenda that has led to a loss of community spirit. It has caused us to live in a society where success is increasingly seen as your own merit and failure is your own fault. The conservative response to this loss of sense of community, including this cabinet, is to point an almost lifted finger at people, individuals. Thou shalt sing the Wilhelmus. You will go to the Rijksmuseum. You will be proud to fulfill your social service. We will teach you again what it is to be a proud Dutchman. It's exactly that attitude that's gone wrong in my eyes. That is why the coalition agreement is not an answer to people's concerns. I do not want to say in any way that our history is not important, quite the contrary. I certainly do not want to say that symbols are not important in our political community. It is just not where the discontent comes from or where the solution is. In the end, it is an important broken implied promise. It was the promise that we would all get better, that our children would get better than ourselves. More and more people are doubting that. It was the promise that prosperity would be shared fairly, whether you're director of a factory, teacher at a primary school or cleaner at the station. The promise was that we make society together and share prosperity fairly. That was an implicit social agreement. That was the community spirit, and that promise is broken. The promise of globalisation has not been fulfilled, the promise that together we would improve and the promise that economic growth of itself would lead to more well-being and a cleaner environment. It hasn't been complied with. And the promise of the welfare state, the promise of security and solidarity, has been broken by constant austerity. People don't believe it anymore. The promise of fair taxes has also been broken. The promise that the strongest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens. This is why people are angry, not that bullshit we had to listen to for 45 minutes or almost an hour and a half from Mr Wilders about Islam. This is it. This is why people no longer feel that this society is theirs, that politics is there for them. It is all those broken promises that cause the worrying rise of populism. And yes, soon people will be able to sing the Wilhelmus, but then the cost of care is too high. And later, young people can go to the museum, but they don't stand a chance of a permanent job or a home. Mr. Chairman. I had a little debate just now with Mr Dijkhoff: the race to the bottom. People are insecure. This uncertainty is opposed to the great, dominant interests of business. There's a plea here that we should participate in a race to the bottom. I don't think that's wise. Let me say a little old cabbage: we are engaged in a classic struggle between capital and labour. That does not require a little adjustment, which requires radically different choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	The whole story that Mr Klaver is holding now, I would like to put it in the context of the fact that after the elections he won, Mr Klaver had every opportunity to make real changes. It's been your choice not to. Everything you say here for the next four years is in the light of the fact that you can criticize all choices but that you could have done it yourself and did not choose to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	It is not for nothing that we spent almost 90 days with you and the other colleagues; we did so because we would like to achieve the changes I am talking about. But what we saw and what we now see in this coalition agreement was that it was not possible. We wanted to get rid of our own risk. We did not want tax breaks for large multinationals. We wanted not only good ambitions but very concrete plans on climate change, not to mention what is happening on migration. The break-up between your party and mine in the negotiations was inevitable. And that's why I'm standing here, with pride.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	If that breakup couldn't be avoided, I'd feel pretty good afterwards, because you shouldn't have started it. That's one. Two: I'm going to say it now, because this is the moment when you take seriously the democracy that we are in the Netherlands, which is a representative democracy with majorities that need to be formed, there comes a moment when you have annoyingly also the responsibility to say to your own voters: we are going to achieve as much as possible, it will not be everything, I stand for what I can achieve and what I cannot achieve. That is what I am going to do, and three other parties are going to do it now, but you should have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	No. I think there is a big difference of opinion here about what politics does and does not mean. You see here the classic power party, the CDA, which says: you should actually rule all the time, even if that doesn't bring the change of society you want. That's not what my party stands for. We are prepared to make that change in small steps. It doesn't have to be all at once. But we have to move forward. If we're going to take steps backwards, further away from our ideal, I'll fit in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	If the new policy, as Mr Klaver sees it, is one that is better to call out 100% of your election programme and say to others that they do not reach half of it, then that is politics for him. But that is not how democracy works for us in the Netherlands. 'Cause what if I made that choice, and three other parties, too? We'd have had a new election. Is that democracy? No. Democracy is also taking risks, democracy isn't pulling everything in and not standing by the sidelines for four years, yelling that it has to be different, having the chance and then saying: well, it was so complicated because there were four of us. Yeah, there were four of us, you didn't bring in everything, but for example, for the climate policy we have now, no country in the world has it, without GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	The latter is not entirely true, but we will be talking about it in a moment. Look, eventually it's about what choices we make and what we stand for. We're dying to work together. I saw an outstretched hand at the VVD, I'm listening to the Prime Minister, and we're not in this coalition because we don't stand for the vision this cabinet has on the Netherlands. But where it is possible from the opposition, we will see where we can work together and we will put our hands out. So in the coming years I will not continue to fall into all sorts of small debates about how we have been at the table all these days, I will be very hard and critical at the points I do not agree with, at the points that I think we can work together on, I will stick out my hand and I hope that we can work together in the coalition or not, because that is what the Netherlands ultimately needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the struggle between capital and labour, and so it is time to give substance to solidarity and community spirit and put an end to the uncertainty of people. That calls for a new agenda, and the Prime Minister will probably find what I am saying gross, but also a vision. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the labour market. There is no country in Europe where the flexibility of the labour market has gone so far. People want to be able to buy their own house. But with a flexible contract, that's almost impossible. And people can only pay €800 in rent, but get a mortgage for €700 a month, no matter. And having a permanent contract is about so much more than not having to be afraid that you're gonna lose your job next week, it's about being able to trust in the future. It's about trusting you to start a family that you can build a future. That is why we need more security for flex workers andzzp'ers. I ask the Cabinet, with this in mind, why not give the police officers, the teachers and the nurses the raise they deserve. I expected it because the Prime Minister himself brought it up during the negotiations. Why is flex becoming even more flexible when there are no more permanent jobs? Why is flexible work not made structurally more expensive, so that people have a real chance of getting a permanent job again? I would like to say to the cabinet: do not give people confidence in the future, but opportunities to shape their own future. And then the Netherlands as a tax haven. There is no country in Europe where capital taxes are so low. Why does this cabinet reduce wealth tax? I am happy that we are doing something about the duty-free foot for the small, ordinary saver and that it is going up. I think it's fair. But why not tax the most rich of all? There are few countries in Europe that give large companies as many fiscal gifts as the Netherlands, while the burden on people is high. Why does the profit tax have to go down so hard? Why are we abolishing the dividend tax for foreign investors? Does this Prime Minister have the same defence as the leader of the VVD, who says it is 1.4 billion, but we cannot risk companies leaving? The dividend tax is primarily not just about multinationals, it is about the investors who are behind it. There is no problem with capital in the Netherlands. This is about shareholder bacon, this is about Wall Street bacon. This costs Dutch families €175 per year. That's the gift we're giving Wall Street, with the idea of "that's the big master plan behind it" that if we don't do it, it could go wrong and that's at the expense of employment. If you really want employment, I can think of much better ways to spend that 1.4 billion. Put it in the public sector, make sure that the burden on labour goes down even further, put it in people's purchasing power, then you're sure that that 1.4 billion will get its money. Now it's just hope it works. It's like playing roulette at the casino and putting it all on red. Mr. Chairman. Then the question: why increase VAT? Like the dividend tax, the VAT increase was not included in any electoral programme. Where did it come from? The groceries are getting more expensive, but big companies are celebrating. Who lobbied for this? Who wanted this in the cabinet? We have read that the Christian Union was not, at least, but which of the other parties did? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Everyone's getting better, that's the mantra. Everyone is getting better, this cabinet says, and the big companies are also going to pay more taxes. Yeah right, it's playing ball with the taxes and thinking you can fool people. People are not crazy, they have realised that the promise of this cabinet that everyone is really improving is built on quicksand. People with low and ordinary incomes really do realize that they are paying for the relief of the highest incomes. They have noticed that they are ultimately paying for a lower income tax for large companies and that the lower taxes for those US investors are credited to their cheques. For ordinary people rents go up, care premiums rise, groceries become more expensive and the energy bill increases. For ordinary people, daily life is becoming more expensive and that was not the promise. Nor was the promise that nearly 400,000 households would decline. When we zoom in on who these people are, we see that they are disabled, people who are unable to work or to work completely, beyond their fault, because they have a limitation. It's about the elderly, it's about people in welfare. 400,000 vulnerable people, at a time when we've never been so rich. Hence my big criticism of what is happening to business. Why on earth give nearly 4 billion to large multinationals by lowering corporation tax and reducing dividend tax? Explain that, even to those who are improving in the cabinet's plans, because everyone knows someone in their environment who does not, and they see that they do not benefit from globalisation and from progress beyond their own fault. That wasn't the promise. There are few countries in Europe where as many people are in debt as in the Netherlands. It's not just the mortgages, it's the government's fault. So it's not because of bad guys from the market, it's because of the far too complicated surcharge system that we have and by stacking fines on fines, it's because of ruthless collection agencies that we send to vulnerable people who are in deep trouble. I would like to congratulate the Cabinet on the fact that this point is taken up in the coalition agreement, but it calls for more. The approach needs to be broader. Public services need to improve dramatically and reduce debt drastically. This is about trust in government and politics. I hope that we can start with each other and that we can take an additional step in this area by abolishing market forces in debt collection agencies. I look forward to a response from the Prime Minister on this point. Then education. There is no country in the world where young people at such a young age have to choose a school type and a course package. Choosing at the age of 12 is too early. A wrong choice was made quickly. I actually call it a "wrong choice," but how can you expect someone at that age to make the right choice at once? After that, it is almost impossible to recover. Only people who get lucky will get through it. And yes, I see that the cabinet is taking action, but this is the big challenge. All those young people from VMBO and MBO, who form the backbone of our society, must be given more opportunities to move forward. Before the elections, all parties made expensive promises about reducing work pressure in education. We were all standing there on the Malieveld. I can still see us. The demand is 1.4 billion. And what are the teachers being told? 1.4 billion is too much. GroenLinks only embraced this requirement of 1.4 billion after the formation was completed. Why? Because we wanted to see what happened. If it was said 'we do not fully meet the teachers because we also want to do something about the care' or 'we do not fully respond because we also want to do something about the police', I would have understood it. But if you see at the same time that the same amount, EUR 1.4 billion, is being given to US investors, then I don't understand the choices that are being made. That has nothing to do with restoring people's trust. It's development cooperation for Wall Street. This is more important than the development of our own children. I come to the issue of renewable energy and climate. I congratulate the cabinet on its declared ambitions. I think it is good that the cabinet has come to the idea of a 49% reduction in CO by 2030. After reading three more times I wanted to make sure that this means that it is 49% that can be adjusted upwards and not further down. I'd like to confirm that. I saw a mechanism in it, but I think it is important to know that it is 49% and that that percentage could be further adjusted upwards. I think it is very good that the ambition is to come up with a climate law. I am also pleased that Mr Dijkhoff says that as a coalition partner he is very willing to enter into this discussion, including with the minister who is here. In this way we can see whether we can shape this climate law from the Chamber as quickly as possible so that it can count on broad support. This is important in order to provide certainty for citizens, investors and businesses in the longer term. This is really important for employment in this country. In the context of this certainty, I have another question about the objectives. I see that unlike the previous coalition agreement on CO reduction and renewable energy, no long-term objective has been set for 2050. My question is: is there any departure from the previous coalition agreement, or is it simply not written down? I would like to hear that there are indeed targets for 2050. That sounds very far away, but for investment decisions in the field of energy that go on over many, many, many years, it is important that companies have certainty about this. Mr. Chairman. The ambitions are good, but we have less to say about the policy. And not just us; that goes for the Planning Office for the Environment. This concludes that up to half of the plans will reduce CO. That is far too little and far too little. Those plans need to be more concrete. I always compare it with economic policy. Can you imagine that this cabinet had made plans about purchasing power or about cuts or reforms, which the CPB would say: well, we think half of them will work out. Then this parliament would be too small. But now that the Planning Office for the Environment indicates that the plans are not concrete enough, there is almost a shoulder-picking response. It can't be. If you really want to live up to your climate ambitions, your climate plans must be as tough as all the socio-economic plans you want to implement. Then you have to make sure that you do not use the SDE scheme, the renewable energy subsidy scheme, for the storage of CO2. Storage of CO2 doesn't change the transition we have to go through to a sustainable society. I also said it in the previous debate: yes, sometimes you need the storage of CO2, for example when it comes to the cement or steel industry. But it's crazy to base 30% of your overall policy statement on that. Since you pay it out of the renewable energy subsidy scheme, we see that is the cynical thing that at the end of this cabinet period there is less renewable energy than if this cabinet were to do nothing. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that he is prepared to look at a different interpretation of the SDE scheme, the renewable energy subsidy scheme, and that we are not going to pay out the CO2 storage. Because nobody wants that, companies don't and the environmental movement doesn't. When we talk about climate, we also need to look at biodiversity. Recently, an important report came out stating that we lost three quarters of our insects. That is disastrous for nature, for our environment and for the food chain. It says a lot about the sustainability of our way of life and the sustainability of our intensive livestock farming. Does the Prime Minister recognise this crisis in biodiversity? Does he recognise that this is why we need to make our agriculture more sustainable? Mr. Chairman. When we talk about government policy for the coming years, we must also consider Europe. Europe's promise is also under pressure. It has become a market project rather than a social project of shared values and fair progress. What is this cabinet's vision of the future of Europe? How do we restore people's confidence in Europe? I assume that the Prime Minister's contribution will go into the commitment of this cabinet when it comes to Europe. When we talk about the European Union, there is an important issue, namely the issue of refugees. Do we organise that well and decent, with respect for human rights? My question to the cabinet is what message it sends to Brussels in the field of refugees. I think that the chapter on migration is clearly and harshly worded in some respects, but in some respects it is not. I have questions about that. For example, when it comes to sending boats back to safe ports. Are these safe ports introducing a different concept alongside the concept of safe third country? What are these safe ports in North Africa? How is the right to non-refoulement, which is mentioned in the coalition agreement, guaranteed? As I read the text of the coalition agreement, I see it in front of me that people who are picked up at sea should not necessarily be brought to Europe, but that they should be brought to North Africa. If you want to make sure these people are safe there, that needs to be checked. Who's gonna do that? The captain? Are there UNHCR committees on such a ship? What's going to happen there? This is crucial. Because this is so unclearly written down, it can go both ways. 1. There is no change in policy. People are still being picked up at sea and brought to Europe, where they are being looked at to see if they are safe. 2. We are going to a sort of Australian model, which Mr Wilders will be very pleased with, in which people are being dragged straight back to North Africa. I would like clarification from the Prime Minister on this point. When it comes to migration, I want to look not only at Europe, but also at what we are doing here. One of the things is how we deal with the children who are rooted here, who have lived here for years, who are sitting on sports clubs, who speak the language and who are in school. We're gonna send those kids back later. The children's pardon will not be extended, because imagine. There is talk of the suction effect. It is said that these are all profiteers of the system and that they stay in the procedure for as long as possible to ensure that they can stay here. I look at those children, who live here in this country, who often speak perfect Dutch, who are part of this society. I've had a lot of conversations with people who are very critical about refugees and about migration, but I've never heard them say that you should evict these kinds of children. I think it is ridiculous and truly inconceivable that we are unable to solve this problem here with each other. Mr Dijkhoff made a very good speech. It was almost apolitical about how to work together here and not just about points. This is one of those points where we should work together in a Chamber. This isn't about stopping migration. It's about making sure we give people who've lived here for years a place they deserve. Mr. Chairman. My criticism of this cabinet is strong when it comes to its socio-economic plans, but I also put out my hand to ensure that we make all the climate ambitions real and that there is a policy that will work. Criticism also implies that you dare to make other choices and that you make them insightful. That is why, together with colleagues from the SP and the Labour Party, I have shown six different choices than those set out in the coalition agreement. Above all, it is a choice for people over multinationals. We are not going to increase VAT by not reducing the tax on profits and we are not going to abolish the tax on dividends for foreign investors but we are going to invest in teachers, nurses and police officers. We are going to invest in a lower workload and in a higher salary. And we're definitely not cutting down on community nursing. We eliminate our own risk, which reduces the burden on people. And a flat tax sounds cool, but it's not social and it's certainly not a big change in your tax system, because it ultimately increases the tax rate for people with lower income and lowers the rate for the highest income. Yes, we are creating an even more fair climate policy. Companies, the biggest polluters of all of us, the 450 largest polluters, are responsible for 45% of CO emissions, which are going to pay more. For people, we lower the energy bill and we close the gas tap in Groningen further. That is a great promise that must be kept, because that is what the Groningen deserve. They deserve that not only before the elections, but also now. If this cabinet really believes that it wants to regain people's trust, this is a very important point. Yeah, we're gonna build houses. There are few countries in Europe where housing for ordinary people is so inaccessible. There are waiting lists for rental houses and the prices for residential properties are far too high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	I have seen the proposals, for which I am grateful. I think one of the first achievements of this cabinet is that left-wing cooperation has been established, so the three parties have found each other. This has taken a long time, namely a number of decades, but it has worked. I have, of course, also looked at these plans and I have two very big questions. Let me use them as an illustration for the final question. First of all, the own risk, which is abolished. Minister Schippers and the Central Planning Bureau have said earlier that this cannot be done, that you cannot do so in this system. That is my first big comment. The second is that the abolition of the two-disk system will be charged for 5.9 billion. In the cabinet's plans, it's 0.6, so 600 million is structural. So you have an occasional booking for a structural coverage. That's half your...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	Plans gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	That's right. Those are my two comments. My final question is whether you are prepared to pass this on to the Central Planning Bureau before the financial considerations that will take place next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	Look, it's not a counter-budget. We've made six proposals. If you insist that there will be a pass-through account that is always ex ante, I have no objection to that. It's not a wire transfer. We've spoken to the CPB before. They said that in addition to the coalition agreement they are not going to pass on all kinds of other plans. Having heard this debate, I think there is room there. I look at the colleagues and I see that there is one. What unity, men! So that's no problem at all. As far as structural coverage is concerned, you have a point. This is not structural coverage beyond 2021. We're not pretending that at all. That's not the point at all. We are making plans for this cabinet period and if you ask what structural coverage should be after that, we say that this is not a problem at all. You see enough measures for that in our election programme. I'd like to name them for you. But if the question is to get the plans passed on, that's fine with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	That's strange, isn't it? Salaries are going up. Structural money is being squandered, all kinds of expenditure is being spent and, well, half of it we haven't covered. At least that's curious. It is all the more important to submit this plan to the Central Planning Office with the questions: what does it do in the long term, what does it do after this cabinet period and is it not hugely pottering? I'm very curious about the billing. So let us ensure that there is a pass-through here for next week's financial considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'm looking forward to that. I always have a great deal of confidence in credit transfers that we ask for, for example, when we asked them about the Planning Office for the Environment and the claims we made about them. We got right in that and when it was under the previous cabinet about inequality. You'll see that here, too. What we do, Mr Segers, is cover for the next four years in this cabinet period. It's about the plans of this cabinet. What you are looking at is: what is the further structural coverage? To do that, you need to recreate a new policy to ensure that this is covered. If that's what you're asking, we'll be able to deliver it in no time. That's why this is really different in character. It is not a shadow agreement and it is not a counter-budget. It is six proposals that lie before this cabinet, but if you ask for a transfer, we will gladly forward them to the CPB. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, I'm heading towards completion. There's my optimism. There's a myth of the frog in the pan: if you let the water boil slowly enough, the frog doesn't jump out. That's not true; he'll jump out. Fewer and fewer people accept the status quo, feel it gets warmer and warmer and say: we don't take this anymore. There's my optimism. My optimism is with 50,000 teachers, who never go on strike but who stood together in the Zuiderpark to fight, not even for their own salaries but for better education for all those children. And they are only the beginning. Look at the rest of the public sector. People no longer accept that it is only about money, about targets, about austerity and about rules and not about cooperation, giving good education together, helping patients or keeping neighbourhoods and neighborhoods safe. The teachers and nurses no longer take the bureaucratic workload. They want time to compliment each other, to decide together how to do the job better and to be proud of the important work they do together. They do not want to be led by stopwatches, by forms and by managers because it always has to be cheaper and because there always has to be savings. Now they don't want to. Soon they won't take it anymore, because they want to regain control of their own work. I feel the impatience in society and there is change in the air. All those people who don't feel heard, who don't feel seen and who don't feel appreciated, are going to make change. 'Cause no isn't enough, says Naomi Klein. Together with all these people we will be a movement for change in the coming years and together we will fight for a course, a course of fair sharing, new sense of community and ensuring the future of our children. I am going to work hard on this movement over the next few years, with my progressive friends here in Parliament and where I can do it with my political opponents in the coalition, but especially with all those people in society who want it to be different. Mr. Chairman. I started with the confusing times. Perhaps times are mostly confusing for politicians who cling to the past and have too little imagination of the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For the first time in five years, the MPs of the VVD wished me luck with my input. What I owe that to... They'll find out. Madam President. Yesterday it was 500 years ago that a rebellious monk nailed 95 theses to the door of the local lock church in a German provincial town. He could not imagine how much he would change Europe's reputation forever. Maarten Luther would become one of the largest church and social reformers in Europe's history. Luther left many guiding writings, even in the year 1520. He then wrote a pioneering pamphlet: von der Freiheit eines Christenmenschen, about the freedom of a Christian. He dissected two seemingly contradictory theories. His first thesis: a Christian is in freedom lord of all things and no one's subject. His second thesis: a Christian is in service servant of all things and of everyone's subject. Luther talks about Christians there, but at that time, in 1520, that was about all Europeans. At that time, there was no distinction. He spoke to the entire population. With his first statement he made it clear that everyone has a personal freedom, is free in his faith and in his conscience. In your personal faith or in your conscience, you do not have to tolerate anyone above you who tells you what to do. But from that freedom each man then has a serving responsibility to the other. So he said that sharp. Individual freedom also means collective responsibility. Those two concepts brought together Maarten Luther 500 years ago. In today's politics, individual and collective are very often opposites. One movement emphasizes the importance of individual freedom; the other looks much more from collective responsibility. However you look at these two concepts, in the end they have to be in balance. A balance between freedom and responsibility, between individual and community. My point is that that balance is gone in modern society. Individual freedom has become too absolute, collective freedom too relative. This can also be derived time and time again from the research carried out, for example, by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Because what are the main concerns of the Dutch? They're not about individual cases. They are about the questions "how does this country change?', "are we still seeing each other in a good way?" and "What do the changes in our society mean by immigration and integration?'. These concerns are greater than concerns about the economy or its own finances. These concerns about immigration and integration are great. The problem is very clear from, for example, a question that Kim Putters, director of the SCP, asks. Because he expresses that problem, that discomfort, that tension between people sometimes, as follows. He says: Muslim youth in our society I hear asking the question "can we be here?', And then the environment asks again "but do you want to be here?'. Two questions you need to think about. But when you think about it, you can see how deep this is. It is the uncertainty in society: do you really want to be here, can we actually be here, and then, are we one close society? And that's under pressure. Because how is it that in today's Netherlands, today's prosperous Netherlands, there are so many people who feel insecure and orphaned, while we are individually freer than ever? How is it that so many people are concerned about the way in which they interact, that the fear of the future is greater than the certainty that things are getting better? How is it that 1 million elderly people in this country feel lonely in this free, prosperous country? How is it that freedom of speech so often degenerates into swearing and insulting? It makes people angry. It leads to mistrust, also towards politics. It is all those ordinary Dutch people who ask these questions, who care, who want the best for their country, the best for the future, the best for the future of their children. It's about ordinary people, no matter where they live, who they are, what their faith is, what their background is, what their chances are. Those are the pressing questions. Those are the people we do it for. And that is also what we need to focus on at the start of this new coalition. Christian Democrats stress the importance of the responsibility you have for the other, for the collective. The Liberal will start with personal freedom and will want to limit it as little as possible. These are differences that manifest themselves in all kinds of areas of thinking. In politics that is: how do you feel about the family; something collective or something individual? In the case of security: the importance of privacy in relation to security. Education: free for every direction or all in one way? And so on the labour market, and you name it. That's a difference, sometimes a gap. And that was the gap that had to be bridged in these coalition negotiations: collective versus individual. It took time to bridge that. In recent months, four parties have negotiated a government agreement. After those months I say, perhaps disappointing for my colleagues from D66 and the VVD: I have not become more liberal. Nor do I expect them to have become more Christian-democratic. But that wasn't what we were looking for either. So to anyone who says he sees all these differences, I say: yes, that's right, but the mission was to bridge those differences in the interests of the country, so that we could jointly order a new cabinet. And it worked. In fact, I dare to say that the mandate we gave this cabinet has become much more ambitious than I had ever thought possible at the start of these negotiations, knowing how great the differences were. I see that it has succeeded in establishing that link, that bridge, between individual and collective, all in the spirit of that pamphlet of 500 years ago. In essence, the basis of this coalition agreement was laid 500 years ago in Wittenberg. Yesterday, the Reform was commemorated, with Protestants and Catholics and Jews, to show that a difference from then, has become a unity of today. Madam President. Five years ago I stood here at the start of the Rutte II cabinet. The CDA's attitude towards that cabinet was one in which we supported good proposals, rejected bad proposals and, where possible, did our best to make proposals better in order to support them. In the base, that attitude will not change in the next four years. Of course, that does not alter the fact that the position I am now in is a completely different one. There is a coalition agreement, in which the CDA recognizes a lot of what it considers important. Much more than in the previous period, the CDA offers the opportunity to actually achieve important wishes. I hope that the same will apply to the other coalition parties, so that they will also have many of their wishes realised. Four parties recognize themselves in total. This means that the CDA will also support proposals as well if we did not make them up ourselves, because they appeal to us as a whole. That makes our position different over the next four years than four years ago. Our signature is under the coalition agreement. Together, our 19 CDAs, we will ensure that after those four years we have put more of the 2017 election programme into practice than we succeeded from the opposition after 2012.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	This was a sermon. We now know that the inspiration for the coalition agreement was apparently given by the Reformation of 500 years ago. At first I thought it was "bumor," but it explains why Mr Buma said: once we have written it down, it is for the rest of the world law. He said that our government agreement states that we want to get rid of the consultative referendum. That's what it's become. He said, whatever the outcome, the cabinet does not have to abide by the law which obliges the cabinet to reconsider the proposal in such a case. In my view, that law still applies. Mr Buma also says: I keep doing it exactly as I always did; so I will not be chained to the coalition agreement. There's a signature on it, but we also want to work together. Now my first question, Mr. Buma. Your tradition goes back to the Reformation, but also to the polder. Are you prepared to give the new Minister of Social Affairs the opportunity to reach a social agreement in which, for example, there is better protection forzzp'ers? That's what you want and what the Labour Party wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	Polders are older than the reform, by the way. The poldering is already from the early Middle Ages. So that is a good benchmark to bridge our gap as well. I'd be happy to answer that. I'm still on the job market. I am really convinced that there is a paragraph that should inspire the polder. I hope you recognize a lot of them, not everything, but what is possible. At least I see this as a task. I am simply speaking as a CDA, but I am happy to pass it on to the Minister, namely that with these agreements people go in hand to the social partners and say: you did not come out and we regret that, but we think this; we have also thought about what would be conceivable for the social partners; take this seriously, because this is the framework. But of course you're talking about that. I also call on the social partners to do so. So far it's been a little quiet, and I get it, because the minister wasn't there yet. Now there's a minister. If there's any kind of control by the CDA, that's appealing to this minister for his ambition to conclude a social agreement. In doing so, it is extremely important what the other parties think, including the Labour Party. It has also shown in recent years that an agreement with employees and employers is important for the PvdA. I hope that was an answer to the question. Yes, that paragraph needs to be discussed, but it is not written down with the idea "what is in our election programme?', But with the thought of "what is desirable for the labour market?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you for this historically inspired answer. The polder was even there before Christian democracy. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	Yeah, but I'd rather not be reminded of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	But the question is, of course, as follows. If you define freedom as a problem, that's a double message to this cabinet. Of course, the agreements you have made are the basis with which the Minister must go. You cannot expect the social partners to erupt in loud cheering and applause afterwards. I think we can agree on that. So, binary, that means there's room to improve those appointments. I've heard you give that space. That room has the Minister. Then it is obvious to encourage him to use it quickly and not to send laws to the Chamber until we know if we have succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	In itself, I leave the answer to the cabinet. Quite frankly, in my perspective, you're gonna consult with the social partners first and then you're gonna come up with a law. Of course, it can happen that you don't get out. We need to make some changes. We didn't think in writing: what should we write today? This is really a direction that we consider desirable, because you want to get both employees and employers to sign something. For example, by changing the Work and Security Act, we make it possible to take employees into permanent employment while at the same time tacklingzzp'ers, flex contacts and payrolling. Employers may not like it as much, but employees like it more. So I have the impression that we are heading in one direction, but of course you are putting this down in an adult consultation with social partners to talk about it. Then, of course, it comes back and we see it too. Then it's possible that it's different from what we thought we were signing for. That is also important for a coalition party to realize. But maybe it's something other parties can wear. Then I think we've only made a profit. I am constantly looking at the Minister for Social Affairs, who fortunately is on this side. He nods yes. That's not the most important thing for me, because I'm just saying this, but I like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	I like it, too. Thank you for having such a good time. I'm gonna give you a little direction. There are really good proposals in it. That's what I've said equestrianly before. However, a five-month probationary period has a huge risk of declaring people outlawed, and we do not want that. If you have a permanent contract, you don't want to be sent away at all. That's a big problem. That's gonna be a big problem for the trade union movement. I'll give it to you. I get it. You just nailed those theories down there. You're not gonna rewrite it, but it's got to be different if you want it to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	Yes. I think it is important to note this. The benchmark is that employers and employees should be able to agree. I am well aware that the position of workers is a benchmark for the Labour Party. Yeah, it had to come to that that wasn't the case. I acknowledge that the Minister should keep both of them in mind, but I think that is a very real point that the cabinet should simply take with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	Then I'll move on, yeah. I was talking about the fact that the CDA voted along the lines of an election programme the previous period, and that now that a government agreement has been reached, the benchmark is based on that, unless something is not there and then we fall back on our electoral programme. Because that's how the Netherlands coalitionland works. After the polarisation of elections, the complex process in which parties who fought each other first have to build an agenda together is always underway. That process was very difficult this time. I would like to say a few words about the process, if only to prevent me from waking up dreaming every night. It's good to get it off your chest at some point. Few people could have suspected that four such totally different parties, VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion, could write down such a strong joint ambition. It is also a day for other considerations, which I have also thought about in recent months. Because it also makes sense to think that in the Netherlands, in today's democracy, we need at least four parties for a majority to form a coalition. And then a majority that is one seat in the Lower House and one seat in the Upper Chamber. This is partly the result of a new and increasing phenomenon in politics in my view. More and more parties do not seem to want to govern or suggest that they want to, but fail in action. I just had an interrupting debate with Klaver who immediately shouted, "You want power." Well, it's not like that, Mr. Klaver. We want responsibility and you should want responsibility. Because what happened after the election? The SP quickly ruled out the VVD. It is surprising that Mr Roemer here just now interrupted Mr Dijkhoff with: can we make agreements? Yeah, we could do that on March 16th. But first say, "No, I don't want to do that with you guys" and then come here and say, "Can we make arrangements?"', I do not think that is the way democracy works. It has to work from parties that eventually find each other, even if you know the risk a party sometimes runs politically. The SP excluded the VVD and chose the sideline. GroenLinks did negotiate but then searched for the exit again with caution. Just now Mr Klaver told me that he didn't believe in it from the start. Then don't do it or do it and do it right. The PVV I keep telling you earlier has proven that you can say in words "we want to work together" and then stand aside as a victim, but also for the PVV: The Netherlands is a coalition country where you have to give and where you have to take it. Otherwise, the country won't move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	I just had an interrupting debate with Mr Buma, in which he asked me why GroenLinks is not in this cabinet. I have tried to answer that in substance. I also said that after such a long time of negotiation you can see what the differences are and that eventually a breakup proved inevitable. That wasn't the case from day one, because otherwise I would have made other choices. I don't want to make it too personal, but the day after my mother died, I really wouldn't have come back to negotiate if I thought it wouldn't work out. But the question I would like to put to Mr Buma is the following. He is constantly talking about his analysis of society here. I recognize a lot from his Schoo reading and it deserves appreciation when someone takes the trouble to write such a long and thorough story, but that analysis focuses entirely on cultural themes and the distance people feel to society. My story of just now, actually, is quite contrary to that. This focuses on the socio-economic contradictions that have arisen in society. How does Mr Buma look at raising VAT or lowering corporate tax, which does all that with the confidence of the people in politics, seeing that we stand up here for big companies instead of for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	In itself, I think it is important that these are indeed more socio-economic factors, so I think that there are many more socio-cultural factors that are important. But your point is correct. But you're talking about VAT, while you're not telling us about trust, talk about GroenLinks itself raising the packaging tax by 2 billion euros and bringing the VAT on fish, meat and flowers from 6% to 21%. That means for the daily groceries in the supermarket because unfortunately: food is packed because of the safety........................................................................................................................................................................ What's that gonna end with? Why are we increasing VAT? Because we're lowering income tax. Because we make labor cheaper. We do this not only for government staff, as is the case with you, but also for the baker, also for the carpenter and also for the welder. You may attack me and the coalition on that, but it is a conscious choice in shifting taxes: from taxes on labour to taxes on consumption. But luckily not as dumb as you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	There! That's some tough language!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	Yes. Raising packaging taxes by 2 billion and not saying you do, I don't think that's a strong story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	It is funny that Mr Buma brings it this way. That's almost "bumor" too. I remember very well the election campaign, in which we simply said that we wanted taxes on packaging and wanted a higher rate on meat and fish. We simply spoke openly about this in the election campaign. We do, Mr. Buma! My party is pretty clear. I have repeated this every time in the election campaign: we are making what we do not want more expensive, and we are making what we do want cheaper. That VAT wasn't in your program. That VAT wasn't in anyone's program at all, so your voter couldn't know at all what would be more expensive. In addition, you raise the VAT for all products in this way. You raise the VAT for the groceries, for museums, for the camping, for concerts, for the bikemaker and for the shoemaker. Then you make people's daily lives more expensive and you say: we need that, because we need to reduce the burden on labour. That's bullshit. That wasn't necessary. You didn't need that money to relieve the burden. You could also have chosen not to lower corporate tax or not to send 1.4 billion to US investors. You would not have needed the increase in VAT at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	You're bringing in another element. I think that's right. That is fine with me, but don't forget that what we have done is a conscious choice, which is economically good for the Netherlands and is good for families. Remember that we also increase child support and the child-related budget. There's a lot more going on. There's this choice. Secondly, the dividend tax. I think you should also mention that although the dividend tax is reduced by 1.4 billion, the interest rate deduction is limited to EUR 1.4 billion. But you won't tell me. You are not saying that the green taxes for companies are going up by 700 million, I believe. You are not saying that corporate tax is not only an improvement for large companies, but also for smaller companies. You know what's crazy? In this country, we also have to make money. That's what companies are for. Do you know how many ordinary Dutch people work at these multinationals you're so giving up on? 2 million! For them, we do. That's what I'm standing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	My point is not that you've done something you haven't thought about. You've thought very carefully about increasing that VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	You have thought very carefully about reducing taxes on these large companies. I say I don't understand that choice. You're talking about the dividend tax. We have already shown that this does not contribute to creating more jobs. If you really want more employment, then you should not make it easier for capital to be taxed less, but labour. And we are not just talking about the taxes people pay, we are also talking about employers' contributions. And that is not where I see this debate taking the major steps that are really needed. Eventually it comes down to this, Buma. That is the question that is at stake: citizens' discontent. Your analysis is that this is due to the cultural themes, due to a lack of shared identity. But when I talk to people, I hear people are worried about the cost of their daily livelihood. If you increase VAT at that time, make life more expensive for people, and at the same time choose to buy large multinationals, because that is what it is about to give the big tax rebates that we are talking about, then you are wrong. If you choose to leave your own risk intact, you're gonna miss it. Then you feed the mistrust, because people are increasingly responsible for their lives and do not feel that the government is there for them. That is the lack of community spirit that we should be working on, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	I'm afraid we won't agree on this at the beginning of this period. If I look, for example, at the plan presented yesterday by the three left-wing parties, this is a tax increase of 10 billion. Then the shopping basket may not be more expensive with you, but you do have less money to fill it. The only people who get more pay are people in government positions. But I just said: someone who is welder, carpenter or baker is going to get hundreds of euros less by the end of the year. You can shake 'no' now, but the tax relief we give, that flat tax, you don't do. You're raising taxes. You adjust it for specific groups. But we're doing it for everyone. As far as companies are concerned, I admit that there is one measure that is going to cost jobs. That is the breakthrough we have achieved, that is something the previous cabinet failed to achieve. That's that we're finally gonna tax mailbox companies. I can't hear you about that, but they're here. And there are people who work for that. There are offices in Amsterdam that work for that. They're jobs, real jobs. And we don't mind, because we say: the jobs we want in the Netherlands are for ordinary Dutch people. And those people like U2... Nice to listen to, but their money they only make in a place where they also pay taxes. That's what we're gonna say. I don't hear about that. So I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	In the end, the question in this country is: how do you ensure that as many people as possible benefit? Mr Buma is still talking about the importance of these multinationals for the Netherlands and how we keep them here in the Netherlands. He says it's important that we tax less capital. Why should tax avoidance be tackled, Mr Buma? Because those companies already don't pay taxes in this country. On the one hand, you're doing the right thing. I agree. On the other hand, you just give it back to business. I want more taxes in the Netherlands to be paid by large companies. Then we could give even greater relief to people who really deserve it. You are talking about the plans of the left-wing opposition. I'm glad they asked for a wire transfer. I hope that purchasing power will even be looked at, because I dare to give you a note on what comes out of it. There's a couple of people going backwards with us, yeah. In our plans, anyone with an income above €100,000 will get less. But people at the bottom, the welders you're talking about, are getting better. People in Wajong benefits are getting better with us. I am proud of that, because when I talk about sharing honestly, I believe it is about the people who make no more than a ton. Then it's about the welder. Then it's about the Wajongs. Then it's about that teacher. Those are the people we should both be doing it for, Mr Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	This is the old story: if you raise taxes and redistribute the money, we all end up getting richer. That's not true. The money needs to be earned first. The funny thing is, I don't have anything like you with much-earning bosses investing in big companies all over the world. I just want one thing. I want, for example, the 2 million people who work there to keep their jobs in the Netherlands. I don't want the paper firms here. I stand for that choice. You can say it doesn't add up. But he's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	Yes, Chairman, finally. Ultimately, the way you choose as a cabinet to reduce taxes for people in the Netherlands is a political choice. By opting for such a social flat tax, as the CDA wants, you choose that most of the burden relief eventually goes to the richest people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	The cabinet says that everyone is improving, but most of the burden relief is for the people who deserve the most. They are also making the most of it, Mr Buma. That may be a choice, but I don't think that's the right choice. I also think that you are failing your own analysis. If you say that there is a lack of community spirit in the Netherlands, then part of the story is that it is about a shared identity, but the other part is that we have to make sure that the people who run this country are the cleaners, the people in education, policemen and your welder are the most advanced. That is not the case in your plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr Klaver says something, but now I'm told I shouldn't answer. I'm the one getting an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	You didn't hear that. I said, "I'd love to be brief."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	Okay. Short? How is that possible? I very much agree with what Mr Klaver says about the cleaning lady. Still, I'm gonna turn the story around. To keep a cleaner working, there has to be a very simple company to clean. You can say that the wages for cleaners go up. But I say that we must first have jobs in the Netherlands to ensure that people get those jobs too. Those big companies are not insignificant, because a lot of ordinary Dutch people have their jobs there. That's why I stand for it. I am pleased that the debate on the interruption is continuing. Maybe other people can do something else by now. Then Mr Klaver and I will continue with the debate on the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, it's not that easy. I think the positions are clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	That's true. The positions may be clear, but this is a rather crucial point in the debate. This is about big money. This concerns, for example, EUR 1.4 billion under the dividend tax. I did not agree with Mr Dijkhoff, but he was honest. He said: we don't know what it's gonna do; we're taking a gamble, but yes, I think it's worth spending EUR 1.4 billion, even though I'm not sure it's gonna create real jobs, but there's a risk of losing something with it. That is the fair story when it comes to abolishing the dividend tax and what that contributes to employment. When it comes to creating employment and activity in the Netherlands, I would be happy to be on your side to take the right measures, but abolishing dividend tax, please... That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	This was an interruption. So I can answer again. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	Of course you can answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr Klaver will perhaps come forward in a moment, but I will answer the question. Mr Klaver may point this out, but if the CDA has been called to the responsibility that has now come, that is more for me than keeping a story that sounds good. This is what I'm talking about. If we want to keep such companies in the Netherlands, which I say again for 2 million people, we have to make strategic choices. This is one of them. You can make a different assessment; you can't do it. That's your choice. I wouldn't dare.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	In Mr Buma's story I hear two terms that are constantly coming back. That's about responsibility, and that's about trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	Freedom and responsibility I mentioned, but trust is definitely part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr Kuzu has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	At least I heard those two terms. We can also talk about freedom, but I want to do my interruption on these two issues. The responsibility: I have seen from the CDA a completely different attitude in the House of Representatives over the past five years. The CDA also had the opportunity to take responsibility when various sub-agreements were concluded. So my first question is: why does the CDA now keep a story about responsibility, after it has taken a vacation over the last five years and left responsibility? The second point concerns trust. We can then discuss cultural issues, economic issues. As far as those identity questions are concerned, I hear that Mr Buma is asking questions, but he is not answering them. As far as confidence is concerned, I would like to ask Mr Buma: what does your word before the elections mean after the elections? I can hear Rog, the CDA educational spokesperson, say in the halls: with the CDA the social loan system is going to die. I can hear Mrs Keijzer say, at the time, that the risk is reduced by €105. That's what the plan says, and it says in the same plan: we don't make empty promises. Were these empty promises, Mr. Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	These were two extensive questions in an interruption. In theory, I would be able to respond extensively to these two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	I'll start with the second one. You mention a number of things that are actually in our election programme and which, if the CDA could rule alone, would also happen. Over the past period, I shall come back to that immediately. We were able to rely on our electoral programme and we had to do so. But more often than we might have been given in advance, we have also supported the cabinet. There have been complaints that the CDA has given so much support; 90% I believe. So what, vacation? That's the first thing. The second is before the elections and after the elections. It's my responsibility, and you would have, too, if you were called, and you could, to coalition consultations in the Netherlands to turn in some of the things you want. Otherwise there will be no cabinet and you will be standing like Mr Klaver and just like Mr Roemer on the side with clean hands, but box K is empty and nobody rules the country. That's not what I'm doing. We won the election after we lost them in 2012. That creates a responsibility, and I'm not running away from it. What I am proud of is that in the end there is a coalition agreement in which much more is in it than just a quarter of what the CDA would want. A lot more. And I say with pride: yes, this agreement is an agreement that I fully support. Where thanks not only to the CDA, but also to the Christian Union, the own risk remains the same and is not going to increase. Where the loan system is not reversed, but where we ensure that tuition fees are halved in the first year in order to increase accessibility. Yeah, I didn't bring in everything, but I'm proud of what I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	Mr President, it would be entirely fair if the story that Mr Buma is now holding after the elections had also been held before the elections. For I do not think that Mr Buma can get away with it so easily, by pointing out how it works here in the Netherlands, before the elections, after the elections and when forming a coalition. They were harsh words from the CDA before the election. I repeat: €105 would reduce its own risk; the social loan system would be destroyed. Those wouldn't be empty promises. Then it would be fair of the CDA to... If we were to think before the elections 'Oh, wait a minute, there is a risk that we will not make all these points', at least I would like to tell Mr Buma that he should not use that kind of beautiful language. Lousy promises! Mr President, it has been empty promises from the CDA. That's all I can conclude. The own risk remains sky high with €385, and the loan system continues to exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	That is the same interruption I tried again, so I refer to what I said the first time: I am proud of the result. I would not have achieved that if we had stayed on the sidelines. If your party seriously believes that it would have wanted to be responsible, you said that before the elections, then you would have been standing here and you would have said that I did not pull everything in. But I hope you would have been as proud of the result as I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	Yeah, we can do it again. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	In the end, it's about trust. Let's do it again, because it's about trust; the confidence that citizens have in politics. That's what we're talking about all the time today. All the political parties have talked about this, behind the seat of the speaker or during the interruptions. As far as people's confidence in politics is concerned, you make a number of promises before the elections, and then you don't follow them up, at least I'll tell you this. If we, as DENK, promise to get something done, and we also say 'these are not empty promises', then at least we will fight hard for it during coalition negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	Well, that's nice. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Roemer. No, Mr Kuzu, that will be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	As a conclusion: that was not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	I have listened with some surprise to Mr Buma's argument on questions put by Mr Klaver on the tax advantages for multinationals. Since 2009, the profits of large companies have increased by 32 billion euros in crisis time. The contributions made by companies to our total tax income have fallen from 9% to 7%. So they've already been nicely pampered. In times of crisis, they've made huge profits. But now you're going to be pathetic that these companies seem to need our support so badly because they're gonna run away. With our knowledge, our people and our infrastructure, this happens no way, especially since the tax on profits in the neighbouring countries is even higher than in the Netherlands. The dividend tax in the neighbouring countries is also higher than in the Netherlands. You didn't have to make those choices. Those companies are not going to walk, because they can't have it better than paradise Holland. With that money, you could have fulfilled your electoral promise to abolish the student debt system and lower your own risk of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	This has already come into the interruption I have just received, but it is right that Mr Roemer himself should make this point. I admit it's an assessment. It's an investment, a choice. The choice this coalition makes, and I am very convinced of it, is that we want to keep the jobs in the Netherlands of those 2 million ordinary Dutch people who also vote for your party. In fact, we may want more of those jobs, not for the summit, but for the ordinary Dutch people who are going to produce here. That's why we're doing it. I do not mind at all that you have this criticism, because I am just keeping it going. What we don't want are letterbox companies. As far as I'm concerned, they can go to another country. They're leaving. But of the real jobs, I'd rather have more than less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	I respect and appreciate that you are right to say that the CDA is making a political choice; we prefer to opt for even more tax advantages for multinationals than to lower our own risk or to remove the student debt system. That is a choice that you are indeed making, perhaps because of fear and pressure from companies that they might start walking. But do you realize that these companies are based in the Netherlands, with an extremely interesting location and tax environment, with beautiful infrastructure and highly educated people. Those companies aren't gonna run, because they don't have anything better than here. So you had a choice not to. The companies and the work had remained. You had the choice to invest it in society. You do admit that you did not choose to do so. That's your choice, and I respect that. We do make a different choice in these fundamental matters, and that is why you are indeed in trade-K with your people. We will always point out that we can make the Netherlands more human and social with other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	I also consider this to be an interruption, because that gives me the opportunity to reply to it without my speaking time running. As far as I'm concerned, it's still a choice you're making, and I think you should think about it. You will also stand in front of halls and then undoubtedly say to your SP-chooser: we are not going to reduce the burden on multinationals, we are going to do it for ordinary people. But I do not rule out the fact that there are people in that room who work for Philips, Shell, Akzo or Unilever, for example, and who ask you: have you done everything to ensure that these big international companies continue to work in the Netherlands? Then I can say yes to those people, and I can't say yes to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	Me too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	Look, I'll get another interruption, that's ideal!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	If the Netherlands were to price itself from the market in terms of taxes, you might have had a point. But, Mr. Buma, we're a tax haven. We have lower tax on profits than the countries around us. Those companies are crazy to go to Germany, Belgium, France or Italy. They're crazy! We have the best infrastructure and the best trained people here. And that's what I'd like to keep. I say to those Philips people: that is why I want to invest in better education, so that we here also retain well-educated welders and well-educated people. Because with that, we retain those companies in the Netherlands, not by giving gifts to the shareholders, not by giving gifts to the board of directors and certainly not by giving gifts to the investors of Wall Street. We are indeed making a different choice. We choose people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	Yeah, well, I'm gonna answer that again. You are talking about corporate tax which is higher in Germany and France than in the Netherlands. Indeed, there is something complicated about the Netherlands: because we are a small country, we are less likely to get large companies to settle here. Look, here comes Mr Roemer for the next interruption! That is why we must always be lower internationally. If we do not, I would say on that whole story of 'The Netherlands is the most beautiful country for all businesses': talk to entrepreneurs. Then you will say: I will. Well, that it's the most beautiful country... It is a beautiful country, but there are many things that, in order to strengthen entrepreneurship in the Netherlands, really need to be improved for the future. One of them is the labour market, and that is what we are going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	Finalizing, Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	Gee, this is one time I'm more proud of the Netherlands than Mr Buma, of which I take note! What Mr Buma and the cabinet are going to do now is a race to the bottom in terms of taxes for multinationals. This means that we are going to reduce the tax on profits and abolish the tax on dividends. Other countries will think: then we have to go down in that stream. Mr Buma and the cabinet are creating a tax war here in Europe. We're gonna regret that as hair on our heads. We are going to compete with other countries and that will be at the expense of the people and of the facilities in the Netherlands, because taxes will have to be levied to maintain our facilities. If you only go for tax cuts for multinationals, you create a tax war. Don't start that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	I assume that this is also meant as an interruption, to which an answer must be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	The answer I give is that I would rather do anything than raise the Dutch's taxes for EUR 10 billion. And that's exactly what you're doing, talking about choices. No negotiations for seven months and then three left-wing parties come up with a plan that is normal again: increase the burden, spend more money and then think that under the line Netherlands will get better in the long term. Those are indeed different choices. When we talk about reaching out: I like to do it, but I'm not going to replace good plans with bad, priceless plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	No, because what Mr Buma is doing to his colleagues is increasing the burden on the baker via VAT and lowering it for the shareholder. But what I found interesting about his speech is that he knows much more than the leader of the VVD that this is necessary. Klaas Dijkhoff said: well, I don't know; maybe it helps, maybe it doesn't. Refreshingly honest when you spend 1.4 billion. Buma says: I'm sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	He says 1.2 million jobs are on the way. In fact, he is now also mentioning the companies that we could otherwise lose. So my question is: did Philips warn you that without the abolition of the dividend tax, once again, that would benefit shareholders overseas, Philips would disappear here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	No, but that's not the point either. The point is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	Is there any company that has reported to you and has said: we are considering leaving here if you do not abolish that dividend tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	No, I just talked to VNO-NCW, for example. Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	It wasn't in your election program either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	I find this really strange. I have spoken both to people who think it should be abolished and to people who think it should remain. Just as I have been lobbied by companies of this kind, I do not mention names that felt that we should do something about sustainability. That's perfectly normal. It's happened throughout the whole period. It is not, by the way, that in my opinion there is a difference between what Mr Dijkhoff and I said. It's an assessment you make. You don't want to fix her. I'll fix her. I think I have a responsibility to make that assessment. I think you also have a responsibility to understand that those kinds of choices can be made by someone else, even if you do not support them yourself. Because you, too, stand for an additional 10 billion tax increase with the Dutch. I'd be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	We'll get through it anyway. None of the coalition parties had that abolition of the tax for shareholders abroad in the election program. No company has reported to Mr Buma with the warning: o, the jobs are going to die. What happened in that negotiating booth is that VNO-NCW went in in a Halloween costume. That scared the hell out of you, and you got blackmailed. You've promised us that we'll do the 1.4 billion. I don't know if it helps. You've been fooled. With the same money, you would not have had to increase the burden on ordinary Dutch people, make the groceries more expensive, tax the baker and the hairdresser and invest in the solidarity in this society. Your whole plea, which appealed to me on points, because it is about community spirit, investing in care, in the teacher and in the police officer, you could have partly financed if you were not afraid of an unproven story, without it being in any election program or in any pass-through that would have made 1.4 billion but there. There is money too expensive for that and you do not have to tell me who increases the burden here: you raise it for the bakery and lower it for the American shareholder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	Still, about your surprise...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	That was an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	I understood that. The advantage of all these interruptions is that I have 23 minutes left, folks, so pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	We rejoice!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	The interesting thing is that you're now thinking, oh, VNO-NCW. This is just a letter that went to the Chamber with all the documents, because we want to be transparent about who presents us things. You asked where that came from. It is, among other things, a matter which is not so crazy put on the table by the employers. But that still doesn't explain the decision. The point is a little bit: you rightly ask why this is being decided. That is your question, and it is not for me to answer for it in the election programme. That's your question. I do not depart so much from Mr Dijkhoff: this is an assessment. You have to have the courage to make judgements. This isn't about that shareholder, this is about the people who work at those companies. The assessment of this coalition is that it is wise to say a final word about this, because I see Mr Klaver coming again for the next round of negotiations because this is happening in a total package, on which I would ask the left-wing parties to think with me. Because those jobs that really add something, that's why we're lowering taxes. I would like to mention a breakthrough in the past period that you have not succeeded in tackling letterbox companies. There's been a lot of talk about that, but it's not over. What makes the Netherlands that word "tax haven"? Not that we have big companies here, but that we have these letterbox companies here. You can come 100 times, but this is a very sensible choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	The latter was standing policy, with which Wiebes started under the previous coalition. But it doesn't matter. It's a good thing you're going through with that. I think that's sincere. The problem is that VNO-NCW came in and you made the assessment that this was very important. Yeah, but you're sure the neighborhood care is important. You're sure the teacher needs a salary. You're sure that the police, you've also gotten that letter from the police unions, didn't come up with what's come up now. That's a certainty, that's investing in society, here and now, instead of an assessment that you've been frightened by VNO-NCW. And if it's an estimate, then it's also arbitrary, then 1.4 billion could have been 1.2 billion. In other words, it is an assessment that is expensive, which is not fair, which is a relief for abroad. Instead, we can boost employment in the Netherlands, instead we can improve society, we can invest in what is good for us all. That's what you should do. You should not be alarmed by lobbyists who, after the elections, come up with this threat in the privacy of the Stadhouderskamer. And when the cork is off the bottle, the letter is revealed. But then it's too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	I would like to nuance one thing, because that is important to me. You are talking about the decision of the Stadhouderskamer, but this has been said for a long time and is also in a piece that goes to the Chamber. I am not surprised that this question is being asked, but I have to say that what we have done there to make everything public has been done consciously because this debate is necessary. First of all, I think so. Second. So we do not agree here, because I stand for this, as I also stand for the fact that this cabinet is going to invest 8 billion more in healthcare than in the previous period. What you did with the neighbourhood care, by allowing it to be part of a broad agreement, goes on in principle. At the same time, I think that I have heard you very well about the community care. I find it difficult to say that 100 million is being cut, because we do not know how the main agreements are going to go. I find it unwise to get it from somewhere else, because we all have to work in a way that is as cost-effective as possible. But you have a point there, because community nursing is important. If it is possible to work together as a Chamber and a cabinet in the main agreements to ensure that the district care stays at the level we want, then we will achieve that goal and we will no longer have to say how much money that is. Because I don't know what's necessary. I don't know what the negotiations will bring. But you have a point. It is a responsibility of Cabinet and Chamber to do well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	The conclusion. The latter is clear and I will record it. I'll make sure this is excluded. 'Cause waiting and watching... It is said that we do not want to take the risk with those foreign companies and those foreign investors, but I do not want to take the risk with our elders and our district nurses. Let us give direction today instead of saying "we'll look," "we'll see" and "you've got a point." And as far as the dividend tax is concerned, you made a mistake and you were fooled. It costs 1.4 billion. We should have spent that money in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	Then there's an interruption that I'm not responding to anymore, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	You must respond, Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	Yeah, but it's getting so late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	No, I'm not. Everyone has waited six months for this debate, so you have the right to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	The only thing is that you can't tell me that I've just been waiting for this debate, because I've done more in that room!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	At this point, I shall go further. Parliamentary surveys are carried out on amounts of 1.4 billion. Mr Buma is constantly talking about 'the assessment we make'. Mr Roemer, Mr Asscher and I are all looking for the answer to the question on which this assessment is based. We hear it comes from VNO-NCW, but what exactly did they say to make you think: wow, we have to spend 1.4 billion now? Look at the cabinet advisors, for example the CPB. Take the answer to question 88, which states that there is no empirical evidence of the effect of reducing the dividend tax. I would therefore like to know what Mr Buma's assessment is based on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	Still, I can't help but point out that I'm also referring to the Vpb. You know that this was not included in all the electoral programmes either, but it is also an assessment. That's no different than this, because this is also an assessment. He's not that crazy. I believe that the first reduction by then Secretary of State for Wine of Taxation was. Then we'll talk about 2006. He said we're lowering it with the aim of abolishing it. In itself, the direction is not so crazy. Once again, you may disagree, but this lengthy repetition of moves, which suits me well because I have more speaking time, does not lead us to agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	I had already found out that we would not agree. That's not the point at all. I'd like us to know what you're basing yourself on. I am not in favour of the corporate tax measure, but I know that there are all kinds of people who say there's still an effect in that if you do that. For example, the PBL and the CPB say something about this. There's just nothing to be found at the dividend tax. There is no one who says anything positive about this! Yet 1.4 billion is being given away. So if you really do, giving 1.4 billion to American investors, the motto of this cabinet should not be "trust in the future," but "American first, the Netherlands second," as Arjen Lubach said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Buma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	With our plans it will be the Netherlands first, so in that respect Mr Klaver is wrong. In fact, he still forgets that it is a choice where, for example, the interest-rate deduction is not reduced again to 1.4 billion. It's just not right. It doesn't come from the sky, but it's a conscious choice. Thank you for bringing Mr Klaver forward, because I will have more time to speak later. It's a choice we make, and I stand before it, just like the Vpb and the mailbox companies that I don't know if they're going. A lot of things are estimates, and I think it should be possible to account for them in the way I do. In my opinion, this is an assessment that is of total importance for the Netherlands. I would point out that 2 million people work at these companies. Mr. Klaver forgets that these people work there, not me. I am doing it for them, not for Mr Klaver, nor for the shareholders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	Your last comment on this point, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	Finally, Mr President. I don't know exactly how it works. If Mr Asscher says: 'We do not know exactly how it is going to work out, but I would like to ensure that at least some 100 million of the district nurses are excluded', it is said that there is no money for it. If we are all concerned here about children in education, that the classes are too large, that teachers are succumbing under the pressure of work and that the full wish is not being met, it is said that this is also an assessment and that we must look at what is happening. But now there is a totally hypothetical case, namely that companies might leave, for which there is no concrete indication, and you, Mr Buma, give 1.4 billion for that. That makes me angry, not just me, but a lot of people in the Netherlands, because you do not do it for the teachers and for the care department, but you do it for American investors. It's really America first, the Netherlands second, and that's not what this cabinet should do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	Mr President, this is an interruption to which I can answer, and I am going to do so. You may have a tendency to say that it has taken so long, but I have that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u116	No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u117	It is true that this cabinet alone is going to spend EUR 8 billion more on care in the coming period. We're gonna do that. We're going to spend 1.5 billion more on education a year. We're gonna do that. Mr Klaver, you say that in order to spend it, we can also raise taxes. Basically, you are going to pay an item of expenditure with a tax, and you have done so, since yesterday, with an increase of 10 billion in charges in order to be able to pay it. We don't. Those are other choices. I can only say that these are choices the CDA is proud of. There is a great deal in what we have been able to achieve, and there are also things we have less to deal with, but the coalition partners and the Chamber can take care of me that I will defend everything equally. Shall I gradually go back to my text, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u118	I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u119	I was just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u120	That's what I thought. But you've got a taste for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u121	It's getting dark outside, so it's time to move on. Mr. Chairman. This coalition agreement provides a framework for investment and reform, but it is more than a financial structure. Many concerns of Dutch people are not about the economy, but about the state of society in which we live. It is a misconception to think that the Dutch are doing well when things are going well economically. No, it takes more: a strong society where people feel at home, feel safe, feel secure. This coalition takes the responsibility to build on it, and for the CDA, that may be obvious, this is important. Now is not the time to go over all the proposals in detail. It's up to the Chamber to work them out with the Cabinet. I can say that today feels a bit like a handover. Yesterday's negotiators are tomorrow's auditors, except for the Prime Minister, who is going to do it. The 2018 budgets will have to be dealt with at a rapid pace and by far the majority of the plans will not yet be included. But I do have a few issues I would like to draw attention to. First of all, care. Many people have this fearful question: do I still get the care that is needed in the future and can we still pay for that care? The accumulation of costs in care now people experience as too heavy. So that's what we're gonna do, and people are gonna notice. We are going to get the Wmo a subscription rate, which will reduce those high costs, as the Prime Minister said. Its own risk is not going to increase any further. We are going to invest a total of up to EUR 2 billion in care for the elderly. I say to the cabinet that it is an expensive duty to spend the EUR 2 billion well, so that we do not have to say at the end of those four years that the money went there, but that care has not improved. Giving money is one, well spending is a second, and I hold the cabinet to that. It will also have to be clearly understood in this task, and this also applies to other issues, such as education, defence and the police, that we are going to face a new problem in the coming years. Employment figures are developing favourably, but in the coming years we will also see a downside, and we must be honest about that already. Because where are we gonna find the people who have to do all this work? I am looking at the whole Chamber in this respect, because even if the opposition comes up with alternative plans, for example, to hire more people somewhere, they also face the question of whether these people are there. I would ask the Prime Minister to ensure that the cabinet takes this into account in the preparation of the plans over the next four years. We have written down a lot; I want everything executed literally, but there comes a time when we don't have the people and we have to do it differently. Then the cabinet will have to adjust. I'd like to hear the Prime Minister on that. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to safety. Our security is under national and international pressure from the threat of radicalisation and terrorism. A major concern is cyber security. On the net, all things happen that we don't want. Our democracy is vulnerable by influence from other countries. Think of Russia's activities on social media. Every day we're threatened. That's a real threat. I haven't heard anyone about it so far, but it may be one of the greatest threats to our democracy. Look what's happening in America. Our democracy is threatened not so much by what we are doing here, but by the fact that our democracy is fragile and that social media, the openness we have, brings with it new threats. We must not ignore that. I am also thinking of the threat of financing Salafism from the Gulf States. I ask the cabinet to do something about this. It is so important that if we are a country where Christians, Jews and Muslims work together in peace, this is not affected by the fact that Salafist countries come here to impose their will on us. Mr. Chairman. These are important security issues. So we invest in security, including cyber security, nationally and internationally. We're strengthening defense. Police care is getting closer to home. And what I think is very important: this coalition agreement takes care that the money that goes to police and defence is not already laid down in detail. For once, as coalition groups, we have not determined exactly where that is going. But that makes it an even greater responsibility of the cabinet to say there too that after these four years of defence has improved, that preparedness has improved and that security care has improved. Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the labour market. I must acknowledge that one of the most disappointing moments during the negotiations... This is not part of this: disappointing moments and Mr Van der Staaij comes forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u122	No, I didn't. On the previous point. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u123	Mr President, speaking of defence, first of all, a compliment. This coalition, including the CDA, is investing heavily in defence again. Appreciate it again. In the past, I have also appealed to Mr Buma that things have gone wrong. But let me ask you a question. The CDA has also stressed over the past period that it was agreed in Wales in 2014 that we will also be on this 2% standard in ten years. Are we gonna get that with this extra money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u124	I think that this investment, if you push it through, will get to that 2% one day, and that's far away. I do think that what we are doing now with the available resources is really real. Look, our election program indicated 2 billion; we're doing 1.5. So if you're asking a CDA guy, he'd rather have the two billion. That is towards the European average, far from the NATO standard. But I'm sure we're turning a trend on this, actually two trends. 1. The financial trend. That's what you were us for, Mr. Van der Staaij. In fact, you've never done that bending trend, and that's good. But when it comes to the second trend, I am convinced that together we can turn our minds on defence. From a place where you can make more savings every year, where no one knows what it is for, at most, to bring peace very far away in the desert to an organization that protects us every day and is therefore important. So I am really convinced that this coalition does two things in this agreement: more money, but above all a picture of defence. And if we hold on to that, and I know that you wear it, even after this period, we can actually get to that 2%. Because I admit: that is ultimately the purpose of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u125	That's how I know the CDA. This has always been stressed over the past period. It's about that versatile military force that we desperately need. It's gonna take a lot of extra money. But with this investment, we will not be able to reach 2% in those ten years from 2014. In fact, that won't be the case until 2041 when you calculate it neatly. Then Mr. Buma, living and well-being, has been around 76 years. So the question is whether it could be done a little earlier and whether it should not be included earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yes. I must say, however, that Mrs Luck has just joined our group, which is 74 years old. He'll be there in two years. So there's a good chance I'm still 76. Let me start with that. So I'm still going through it. But I can't take anything away from what you say. We won't do it any faster. Again, if you ask a CDA man, "Do you want it faster?', He'll want it on his own. But when I look back at the total of the agreements, that is a good package because we also invest in more places. There are also others' desires to make investments, which may be less in their election programme. Nor do they say: my promise was to invest less, and I hold my constituents to that. They're going up. 1.5 billion: the crazy thing is that it's not a lot of money for defense. That's the peculiar thing, and you know it. You can just maintain the current armed forces in the longer term. You can start investing in innovation. You might be able to invest something in new things, for example, in cyber. But it's not gonna happen. I'm aware of that. And yet I stand for this to be a good choice. Less couldn't be done, that's just not feasible. My point is, you're gonna have to get to that 2% eventually. And I know you're gonna get there late at this rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u127	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u128	Mr. Chairman. I'm joining the labour market. One of the most disappointing moments in the negotiations was the day when the social partners announced that they would not come out together. I say immediately that one of the best moments was when it turned out that we could get out as negotiators. This coalition agreement is not written for either employers or employees. It's explicitly meant as a handout to both. So it has something apolitical in that sense. There's been a search for something that could have support. But the core is that we want to make the labour market fairer and more sustainable. Less space for short-term flex and more space for fixed. And then it's gonna get a little more flexible, and the flex is gonna get a little tighter. We're gonna take payrolling. We improve the functioning of the Work and Security Act. We limit the payment of wages in case of illness. We want thezzp'erschap for who really chooses it and not if you have to. I therefore call upon the social partners from this place to think and participate. To deal with the cabinet that's going to work. I would also ask the Prime Minister how he and his cabinet on this side are going to work on that paragraph. The agreement also helps employers and employees in more places. I have already mentioned this in the various debates on the interruption: lower taxes. We introduce a social flat tax that will benefit every worker. We meet families specifically, where the next generation is being raised. And nobody wants to see kids grow up in poverty. That is why the ambitious commitments on dealing with debt are also important. There too we do more than ever has been done. Mr. Chairman. I come to the subject of climate and climate policy. All four negotiating parties had included in their election programme the wish to achieve the goals of Paris. All four parties want to keep that agreement and are going to keep it. Sustainability is not a dream of a few; it is the heart of the forthcoming government policy. That does not alter the fact that the task is simply great. Anyone who has said critically over the past week, including the PBL, "it looks nice on paper, but now the practice still exists," is right. It is on paper, but practice means that we must all get businesses, municipalities, housing companies, all the Dutch, Europe, on a path leading to the achievement of the goals of Paris. Not everything is now mandatory. It would also be something: what arrogance if we did. Then everyone would cry out: what a disgrace; a wrong measure! But this is an ambition that we are going to live up to and which you can hold all parties to, including the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u129	Some things you have to make agreements with society. I think that's very good. Other things you just go as a cabinet. It is a very conscious choice to invest heavily on underground CO storage and to pay for it from the renewable energy subsidy scheme. The PBL has shown what that means for the share of renewable energy in the Netherlands, namely that we will soon have less renewable energy than if this cabinet did nothing at all. Is that enough for Mr Buma to say: well, you know what, maybe we should see if we should get the storage of CO out of that subsidy scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u130	Let me start with what was chosen, and talk second about what the talks absolutely must be about. A mix of what is financially feasible has been chosen, which is technically feasible, which is what can be done, and which ultimately leads to that 49%. It's very consciously done so. So it doesn't fall out of the sky. It comes from the proposals and tables that the PBL had already done and made; you know them. So this plan doesn't fall out of the sky. However, in my view, the most important objective is that of 49%, which still requires a great deal of international persuasion, because we want more countries to do so. The cure is two. If cost-effective, because it is important to find a different way with the business community, please. Because the goal is important. The crazy thing is: what you say sounds a bit like a reproach, but we have made it clear that we are not writing 49% down without knowing what the consequence is. It could be that we're doing 18 billion megatons of CCS. If we do it differently, we're gonna do it differently. Why not? We're gonna make a law with the Chamber. I'm just saying one thing: this is just a huge ambition. GroenLinks might always do a bit easier about that and says: we'll make it. Here too: we have 17 million Dutch. We do not want to make sustainability policies against them, but with them. Now the energy bill's going up pretty good. There's a risk that a lot of people will drop out. That too is our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u131	The inclusion of people in the sustainability ambition is of the utmost importance. As far as I'm concerned, that energy bill doesn't have to go up either. You don't need that to achieve your ultimate ambition. I am glad that Mr Buma here indicates that there is room. I am glad that he says: if there is an alternative to CCS, the storage of CO underground, then we can talk about it, because ultimately it is about the goal of reducing CO as much as possible in a cost-effective way. But if you look at that cost-efficiency, you will also have to look at what this does with your share of renewable energy. How much energy do we get from renewable sources, such as wind and sun? If we don't make that transition and let the coal plants smoke for too long, the economy won't go along. Then we won't create enough jobs. That is why my question, specifically about the storage of CO: is it at least negotiable that we should get this out of the subsidy scheme? So we're not even talking about an alternative to the 18 megatons. But is it negotiable that we are not going to pay this out of the subsidy that is intended for windmills and solar energy? Because that's how the policy works against each other. It almost seemed to me like a mistake in the coalition agreement, to be perfectly honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u132	I am telling you quite frankly that this question needs to be referred to the cabinet. In my view, the most important thing is that the money we have is being used for CO reduction. For me, the specific targets for renewable energy are derived from them. Because remember one thing: if we focus purely on renewable energy, the Netherlands has a much bigger problem than countries with mountains and lakes from which you can generate hydropower. It's just not that easy with us. I don't know if you notice, but people are sometimes very critical of windmills. I get that. There's just a limit to it. Also at sea, because we also have other activities at sea. You think very quickly in the wind. Don't forget that wind also means quiet moments; then you have to have other techniques. I leave here standing that CCS is a method that, when she works, achieves her goals. The core is getting Paris. Paris is a CO target. Renewable energy is in all our interests, because we need to get rid of Russian gas, but I am careful to impose too many demands on the cabinet in advance. I will come back to what I said: this is complicated enough. But we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u133	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u134	Mr President, we have different estimates of how easy that 18 billion megatons is, sorry, that 18 megatons are now making the same mistake as Mr Buma. That's a lot of work, but that's not the point. I count my blessings. I am very pleased that Mr Buma indicates that there is talk about how we are going to implement the 49 billion, that there is talk about the overall ambition for storage of CO and that it would be nice if we could get it down with other possibilities. I hear he is critical of renewable energy as a separate goal, but I hope he agrees with me that we should not lose sight of renewable energy. In any case, it cannot be the intention that the use of CO savings should be at the expense of the amount of renewable energy we make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u135	That last sentence is one more sentence after it. Of course, if you do one, you don't do the other. I've been negotiating too long not to hear those subtleties, Madam President. Eventually, it's about getting the target. I would add that there is a great deal of money that has not yet been filled in for the sake of sustainability. There will be a bank, Invest-NL, which will be filled with 2 billion. Everything does not have to come from subsidies and taxes, a lot of money has been put aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u136	I suggest that you move on and not look Mr Klaver in the eye, because then he thinks he can go again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u137	I'm not saying anything, Madam President. No, I'm not saying nothing. I'm going on. Who am I allowed to look in the eyes? Madam President. I come to another national and international issue that governs the debate: immigration and integration. The immigration crisis that hit Europe in 2015 left deep traces. Honesty commands me to say that the four negotiating parties in this area were initially quite opposed to each other. However, this also worked. I am convinced that this agreement will address the issue of immigration more broadly than ever before, much more comprehensive and ambitious than in Rutte II and Rutte I. The core is the realization that immigration will not only take hold of this part of the world over the next four years, but over the next few decades, as well as the awareness that the Netherlands cannot manage this issue alone. That is why this coalition has the ambition to lead Europe. In the short term, this means, for example, helping to strengthen the external borders and focusing more on effective return. We put a number of necessary austerities in Dutch policy; austerities that other countries have often put in place for a long time. For the longer term, the Netherlands will explicitly participate in the European agreements with countries in Africa. It is our responsibility to cut off the ruthless human traffickers, who are making money time and again smuggling across the Mediterranean. We also need to tackle countries that make a living from leaving their nationals to start a new life here. There is something very important: we must not only confess with our mouths, but also carry out with our hands. That is why this cabinet takes the responsibility seriously for taking care of people who have nowhere else to go. Development cooperation is more focused on creating opportunities in countries of origin, so that people do not have to come here, and on funding reception and future in the region. Mr. Chairman. I come on another terrain and go back to the Netherlands. This coalition wants to be there for the whole country, whoever you are and wherever you live. I don't look anyone in the eye. He came himself, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u138	Would you mind if I gave Mrs Thieme the floor?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u139	I looked him in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mrs. Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u141	Creating opportunities in developing countries is important. The Netherlands has done too little. In fact, because of our aggressive export strategy, we are ensuring that the economies of developing countries are disrupted, think of our agricultural policy. I ask Mr Buma whether he would also like to stand up for the farmers in developing countries, because he says he wants to do so for the farmers in the Netherlands. At the moment we are dumping cheap products in developing countries from the Netherlands and Europe, because of the enormous export drive we have, which is disrupting the agricultural economy in these countries. Is Mr Buma prepared to review that export strategy and see if we can show solidarity with both farmers in the Netherlands and developing countries? Then, Mr President, you are really building an economy in developing countries that, as we all know, is mainly agricultural.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u142	I must honestly say that I strongly disagree with the picture you are sketching, because the Netherlands contributes to the fact that crops can grow in countries where it is dry in the future. Think of Wageningen and all the innovation that comes after it: the seed production we do here and the development of it. If a strong sector has to be strong somewhere, that is the agricultural sector in the Netherlands. That is why I am delighted with the re-establishment of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I am because we have a very great responsibility, including the agricultural sector. I think it would be very helpful if you too would turn your perspective and not just look at the agricultural sector with the eyes as you do, namely dumping and all that. The opposite is true. What the Netherlands is doing there, with our knowledge and support, is ensuring that areas that are still dry can also produce crops and that they can feed the mouths of 10 billion people. Unfortunately, this can only be done with an agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u143	So I understand that Mr Buma thinks it is a good idea for a very large, mega Dutch entrepreneur to grow roses in Ethiopia. You can't feed your mouths in Ethiopia with that. That can only cause disruption, because it does not use fertile agricultural land to feed the people there. Is that the development cooperation that Mr Buma is advocating?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u144	The way you say it, it's just not true again. The roses have been there for a while, even in Kenya. It's not new at all; this is happening. What we do there is in places where otherwise nothing grows, making sure there are flowers. Those aren't the best places at all. Those are the greenhouses, and we're getting ready for that. It is because of these flowers that there is just employment in those countries and there can also be money made there. Flowers, crops: anything can be done there. Really, what's better if development aid than the Netherlands doesn't send money to the budget of a corrupt regime but allows people on the ground to work as entrepreneurs? I stand for that, and I really think you should stand for that. It's really good. Support it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u145	Here I just hear the adage of the previous cabinet: aid is trade. The main point is that we want to help the developing countries further, but from behind the counter of BV Nederland. I had hoped that with this new cabinet, to which Mr Buma belongs, there would be another sound, namely that we should be able to get agriculture there, in the developing countries, on our own feet, that we would not try to exploit megalomania and that we would not try to grow roses or tulips or any kind of idiotic products there. We are talking about countries where we are starving! That's what I was hoping for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u146	I really don't think the picture is right at all. Crazy is that we are very much in agreement on the basis, namely that 10 billion mouths in the world will have to be fed at a time of climate change and in a time of drought. The Netherlands has a responsibility there. We are doing even more good: we are also ensuring that jobs are created, for example by the plant sector. It's just good. People are proud of it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u147	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u148	Then Mr Buma has not been paying attention in recent years and has not seen the enormous rebellion that exists, among other things, in the developing countries and the African countries against the land robbery that is taking place by multinationals and large companies from the western world. Then Mr Buma did not pay attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u149	You're really messing up two things. Really! There is indeed large-scale forest cover, for example in Brazil, for palm oil. We all know that problem, but you mentioned Dutch companies that do not give money to the government in Ethiopia but invest themselves. What's better than that? I'd say "cabinet, stimulate it" instead of "turn it around the neck."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u150	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u151	I come to regional policy in the Netherlands. Whoever you are and wherever you live, we have an expensive duty to be a coalition for the whole country. And that is why we are expressly improving the situation for the Groningen people who are still living in uncertainty every day because of the effects of gas extraction and often through the handling of the damage. That is where the question arises: what is our future here? But we also support the Zeeuws who do not automatically benefit from increasing economic growth. We improve accessibility throughout the country, not only in the Randstad but also in the areas beyond. We have an eye for road safety, everywhere in the Netherlands. And we're helping the Brabanders with the challenges of livestock farming. We are making sure that there is a future in the pig sector, in a way that is sensible. Companies that don't make it go away and companies that do can move on sustainably. That is the policy for the future. I'm tasting another emerging question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u152	I also see Mr Asscher standing. Is this the point, Mr Asscher?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u153	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Mr Buma is right to talk about Groningen and about safety there. About fear in families, about children growing up with schools that aren't strong on their struts. It is a good thing that the cabinet is paying attention to this, but Mr Buma has also seen that in Groningen this did not happen very well, that the investment fund of four times 50 million is too little to really do something about creating new prospects. I think this is an issue that we really need to depoliticise; we should not do a contest about who has the most motions or wants to return the gas most. I do think that the cabinet should do more than is currently written down. The question is whether Mr Buma would like to instruct this cabinet with me to go to Groningen and there on the basis of the manifesto signed by just about everyone there and of which a number of things have been done, but not to make big things that really do justice to what is needed in Groningen. I'd be there for that. You won't hear me anymore. I want to do that with you, but the cabinet has to start with that, because what is now there is not enough for Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u154	The question of what is right for Groningen, I agree with Mr Asscher, is not primarily a political question, but a question of confidence there. I am aware that here is no other place: trust comes on foot and goes on horseback. I hesitate to discuss the size of the fund immediately. Of course we have talked about how much is real, what can be, what can be done. I like it a very real amount and for a province like Groningen, but it is not enough at all, never enough to restore confidence. That's why we're doing more. The way in which the damage is handled will be different. We're going to use more gas than we have in the past than just Groninger gas. I refer, for example, to the conversion of companies to high-caloric gas. There are more proposals in the coalition agreement, for example on sustainability, which will certainly have an effect in Groningen. There too, there is a great ambition to come up with renewable energy. So I share your concern as to whether it is sufficient to restore confidence. I'm afraid to answer that question. Only the Groningen can do that. Do I think we're making an important gesture with this? Yes. Do I dare to send a cabinet out as a coalition party? Yes. Then the Minister must come back with what the results are. I would be sorry, I would say to Groningen quite honestly, if it ends in a discussion about how big that fund should be. For it is not those tens of millions that make the difference; it is a long-standing problem that requires long-term restoration of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u155	Trust in the future begins with certainty now. I see, and you have seen, that in Groningen the fund is too lean. I'm not going to discuss with you how high it must be. I agree with Mr Buma: it is up to the Groningen people to get out of there. All I ask is that, together as MPs, we send the cabinet to make agreements with the Groningen people, which do justice to the moral obligation we have towards the Groningen people. The whole country burned the stove. The whole country cooked on Groninger gas. Yeah, there are moves being made that are good, but we both know that's not enough. Let us make sure that we really do the Groningen people justice and send the Minister there and then assess, when he comes back, whether it is enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u156	I agree with you in a great deal, and it will certainly be a good job for the Minister to get there and gain confidence. But then I would prefer the Minister to go to Groningen and start by looking at what the wishes are, what is real and what really works when it comes to restoring confidence, rather than getting a negotiation on how big the pot of money should be. I just don't think that's right. It's not right of us if we... Of course you can say: it has to be more. You can also say it has to be less. But again, it's not just money. It's a lot more than that. Think of the idea that the Christian Union has launched to assist people in the psychological damage they have suffered. I find that innovative. That can sometimes mean pastoral care. Some people have less with that, others have more. It is for the first time that The Hague considers that this concern is not only financial restoration of your home, but also psychological damage. That is why I agree with you: do not politicise. I think the question is correct, but I would really be careful to end up with a game, cynically put, arming between drivers about amounts of money before we have answered all the other questions and know what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u157	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u158	Conclusion: Groningers are entitled to compensation, right to recovery, right to recognition of the price paid there. You can't take that off with pastoral care. I think it is right to pay attention to the psychological effects on many families, but that never comes in the place where they are entitled to. The offer stands. I do not want this subject to be a political issue, and I certainly do not want it to be a political issue. What needs to be done is that this minister goes to Groningen without saying that it can never be more than this. We both know there's more to it than that. I'm not gonna tell you how much that has to be. I'm not gonna guess for a second when he comes back with an amount. It's about doing justice to the Groningen people, and now is the time. Trust has already been greatly violated there. Trust will be hard to restore. That starts with certainty now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u159	Fine to talk about the fund, what should be in it and what should not be in it. The idea is that psychic help will go away if no gas is extracted. Linking that up is actually sick. It starts, of course, one step ahead, by removing the causes of the misery of the Groningen people. Over the past decades, they have felt for years crying in the desert, because gas extraction remained far too high. The earthquakes remained because of the height of the gas extraction. To my great regret I hardly read anything about a reduction in gas extraction in Groningen. For the first two years, nothing and then a slap. Had it not been much better, and also in line with what we all said to the Groningen people before the elections, to meet gas reductions much faster in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u160	We have been given detailed information on this. I think it's always been announced when there were experts. We didn't get any other information. The room got it, too. What came in writing has all been made public. What we do is the maximum we can do. Even a little more, because we are also going to convert industry. It costs money. That is money that is invested and ultimately for the benefit of Groningen. That's what we're gonna do. We must also be real. If we were to reduce it further, the Netherlands would ultimately have no alternative in that short time. Then you get a problem with the supply of gas throughout the Netherlands in winter. Importing in summer cannot, because the Groningen natural gas is that low-caloric special gas. Perhaps from Russia, but we do not want to depend on it either. So I call on you too to do what is feasible, but not to demand the impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u161	Previous proposals from our group to ensure that there is a factory to use that other type of gas have been voted off every time. The Groningers are screwed every time. Year after year, they get to hear stories like this. The Groningers are sitting on the blisters, with the misery and with the earthquakes, because we are not creating enough alternatives here and do not cause gas extraction to go down. We are obliged to do everything we can to get back to the 12 billion cube at a much higher rate, not at the rate that the cabinet has. I give you the floor to call on the cabinet to increase that pace considerably and to do everything in its power to ensure that we get to the 12 billion cub as soon as possible, preferably within four years, something we all promised about when we had our first debate in Groningen just before the elections. Now let us live up to the electoral promise that we will not let the Groningen down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u162	The CDA has always taken care that things like 12 billion cubs are not feasible and therefore cannot be said. It must be everyone's own expression that he's done. But then I will continue to say the same in the direction of Mr Roemer. If we want to regain confidence, we in Groningen must offer a perspective that we can deliver. This coalition has looked at what is the maximum we can achieve, within the framework of the problem that we otherwise have no solution for the lack of fuel. We are going to increase the maximum we can do, and we are going to bring it back even further by converting the industry. It costs money. I very much appreciate the fact that the SP has previously tabled motions on this subject, but that also does not relieve the SP of the obligation to see what can really be done now. We will, as much as possible, hopefully with the SP. You do not believe it, but the funny thing is: I am going to make it within my speaking time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u163	I'm not saying anything!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u164	We're doing more for the region. I'm thinking of supporting small schools. By the way, that is money that goes to an important extent to, for example, Groningen. It doesn't have to be from this fund; the money goes there. This makes it possible for education to remain in these regions. I have another question about green education. This is about, as we know, from Agriculture to Education. Surely we can assume that the student will be paid in the same way as the other students at the Ministry of Education? Of course, there was always a difference in funding. That needs to be levelled. That's always been the deal. There is also a problem to be solved. Several departments are now dealing with Wageningen. I am merely making the call, perhaps it is an assignment from the cabinet to ensure that it is well-suited for Wageningen and that research, education and innovation are properly guaranteed. Mr. Chairman. We also give a boost to housing. As the Prime Minister said earlier, we are facing major issues concerning the availability of housing. We need to be able to get to work in the cities where the deficits are greatest. Mr. Chairman. Also important to say is that this coalition does not forget the Dutch far away, in the Caribbean. The affected Saint Martin we are going to help with the reconstruction. It is extremely important that the government there meets the conditions that the people meet, namely combining them with conditions of integrity. We also support the inhabitants of the BES islands, Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire. Remember: we, 150 people's representatives, are also their representatives. This cabinet is also their cabinet. Maybe we've forgotten that a little too much in recent years, but this coalition doesn't want to do that. They must find out more that they are part of the Netherlands. The last subject I would like to mention, but not least, is about our society. Immigration, individualisation and globalisation have radically changed our society. This leads to questions about our identity: what do we have together? More than in the past, we need to focus on what it is to be a Dutchman, what we share, what traditions we find valuable, what future we want to go into together. So we can face the future together with two legs on the ground. The Netherlands is more than a polder with 17 million coincidental passers-by. We'll make this country one nation together. That is why it is so essential for the CDA that we make that visible, that we make that common history visible, with its good and its bad aspects, and that we know our national anthem. In almost all countries of the world, it's normal to know your national anthem. And here that's controversial? I don't believe it. We should be proud of our culture, proud of our heritage. This is also what the passage says that we are going to make our national history visible and make places of national historical interest visible again. It's been a habit in a country like America for years. It must be accessible and visible. The CDA also considers it very important that we make it possible for young people to contribute to society through a social service. Don't forget, we're gonna make volunteering more attractive. That didn't create a CDA model society in four years, I realize that. But you don't have to. It's not gonna work either. But the cabinet is in the process of reversing an individualistic trend towards a common future. In a world of each for himself we are going to pay a little more attention to what we share together. That means learning a little more from your own tradition, bet a little more on someone else. I can feel a question coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u165	I thought you were finishing up this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u166	You liked it, so you wanted me to go on for a while!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u167	I like to listen!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u168	Mr. Buma can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u169	Well, that's what I'm about, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u170	The cabinet's starting. As a political leader and negotiator on behalf of the CDA, I saw the ministers on the border last week. I admit, personally, that felt a little weird. After seven months of negotiation, others start working on what you see as your own negotiated outcome. Are they gonna do that right? I don't know. I really don't know. I think so, but it's gonna have to turn out. I'm sure of one thing. I know that there will be an extremely motivated team, who knows how much responsibility is, how ambitious the task is, but also how beautiful the task is. I wish the Prime Minister and his team all the best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u171	Mr Buma began his speech with two important questions. He talked about the young people who were wondering if they could be here and then asked whether they wanted to be here. He put that in questioning form and then said that these two questions should be carefully considered. Yes, of course, we as DENK always love that. What is Mr Buma's answer to the two questions he himself asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u172	I couldn't have made them up like that. Once again, Kim Putters, director of the SCP, has these questions as one of the questions he points out that there is sometimes discomfort, tension. I think he's right. "Are we even allowed to be here?" "If you are Muslim, will you be accepted?" "Do you want me to be here?" On these questions, the Dutchman may ask the question again: "Do you really want to be here, with all your wandering Turkish flags in Rotterdam and with what is happening in Antwerp between Kurds and Turks?" These very intrusive questions we have to ask. And the answer to that is not very quickly "yes" or "no." The first is that everyone in this society should be allowed to participate and, secondly, that we should also ask everyone in this society to participate in this society. So I say to those young people waving flags that this is the country where we wave Dutch flags, where we fight our conflicts, not theirs. That assignment's in there. It's coming from both sides. If you want to join us, join us. Learn what our tradition is, learn our history, learn our national anthem, learn our values, learn our standards, join in! But I'm also saying, if you're here and you're in, you're accepted. That's how I translate those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u173	In any case, that is a slightly more nuanced response to what Mr Buma said in the past. Speaking of whether young people should actually be here and then whether they want to be here, I would like to remind you that in the past Mr Buma has said that the third generation is more focused on the land of her grandparents and that newcomers are focusing on their home front. Has Mr Buma ever thought about the reasons, the root causes, the motives why many young people in this society think this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u174	That's exactly what I'm talking about, including that quote. A third generation is slowly becoming a fourth, which you can read everywhere, sometimes feels less connected with the Netherlands than the first or the second. That is why I think it is important that we have said in the coalition agreement that we should not be too difficult about the double nationality of someone who is new to the Netherlands, but rather about those of someone from the second and third generation. It will soon have to turn in that double nationality. The second one's gotta do that already. Why? Because we think that if you were born here and your parents were born here or perhaps even your grandparents, we may gradually ask you not to have the discussion here, but to participate in the Dutch debate. What you just mentioned is exactly what I'm still saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u175	That is exactly what a lot of people with different backgrounds in the Netherlands do. They are following this debate. They also look at what Mr Buma has said in the past and what he is saying at the moment. As far as I am concerned, he quite rightly points out in this debate that it must come from both sides and that it must be about mutual acceptance. I would also like to tell Mr Buma that many young people have something like: yes, Buma says it is now, but he also says that the evil citizen is an ordinary citizen and that the concerns of that angry citizen, that ordinary citizen, about immigration and Islam, must be taken seriously. In the reading in which he said that, he also said that Mr Buma knows what I am talking about, that the vain hope is that Islam will be lightened. As a result, people feel that the CDA's comments are so generalising that they are about whole populations, an entire community, an entire religion. If Mr Buma is really very serious about his views on this matter, he will have to make a better assessment of what Mr Putters has rightly said about whether young people want to be here or are allowed to be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u176	In his nuance, Mr Kuzu accused me of using crusader rhetoric on Twitter, where he is active. When I read that, I thought, "Something's wrong here." I've only read that term in fairly radical, extreme circles before, but you're doing it now, and that's not good. We must ensure that we, you and I, as frontrunners, conduct the debate properly as politicians. This is the moment I can address you to that, and I will. What you did there wasn't pretty. But what you're saying now about me and what I said then isn't right either. What I've said about Islam, I'm holding it together. When Islam came up in the eighties and nineties, we in the Netherlands, also within my own party, thought that a kind of new pillar would emerge from an Islam with imams trained in the Netherlands who, in the same way as Christianity, as the Catholics and the Protestants, would form a kind of Dutch-like pillar. That didn't happen. Islam education didn't work out. That doesn't mean anything about how Muslims believe. It wasn't about that at all. You can read that in it, but it's bullshit. Islam is here and people are entitled to their faith. But I maintain the observation that at that time we thought that something else would arise than it did. In fact, in a reading, I do not think that the President has pointed out that a lot of mosques are financed from Salafist countries. The opposite is happening. You should see that as a risk, too. If we see that together, we can make the future better together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u177	Around 1 million Muslims live in the Netherlands. Here in the House of Representatives the image is constantly being called up as if it were only about salafistic organizations and people who are inspired by it. One of Asscher's letters in the previous period made a very clear distinction in the different variants, in which it was a small part. As long as Mr Buma maintains his remark that Islam would not be enlightened and that that would be vain hope, I maintain my rhetoric that this is crusader rhetoric, whereby a Christian Democrat here in this Chamber is going to prescribe how Islam should relate to the Netherlands. I find that crusader rhetoric and I maintain it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u178	I am rather sorry that on this important point, on which I try to formulate as precisely as possible, Mr Kuzu is trying to misunderstand as precisely as possible. What you're saying, I didn't say at all, not now. It's a completely different story. You really have a responsibility. You've been a member of the PvdA, one of those other parties. You must have learned something about the way you think about the ideal of a society in which you put people, Muslim and non-Muslim, Christian and non-Christian together. In this way you contribute to the problem rather than to the solution. What I said is not an opinion, but an observation that something we thought did not happen in the 1980s because it evolved differently. I don't think so, that's what happened. That doesn't mean anything about Islam. If you continue to read it and address me in that way, which is not good enough, then there will be no better debate. I would say that DENK also has a responsibility to conduct the debate properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u179	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u180	The time of hiding is far behind us. That was 1880-1920. We're way past that lockdown. If Mr Buma is going to blame us for polarizing the situation, he will really have to put his hand in his own bosom and really have to look at what he himself has said in the past. Oh, come on. "People focus on the country of origin." That's just not true. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who go to school, who contribute to their company in the workplace, who contribute to society. You lay these people generalizing on one heap and say: they are all focused on the country of origin. Those people must be accepted in this society, because they contribute to it. What goes wrong in politics is that the discussions in society have long passed the discussions at the CDA and the discussions in the House of Representatives. Mo and Henk are in class together. They're on the work floor together. They're doing great together. Mr Buma's rhetoric is the furthest part of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u181	You may respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u182	I'm allowed to respond? I understood "regulating," but that seems to me to be reserved for others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u183	No, respond. You heard me right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u184	I don't think I'm gonna do it. I don't think it's right and I don't think it's pure. I really think that we have a responsibility to name what is wrong, to listen to what I say to Mr Kuzu and to respond to what I have really said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u185	But before you leave, Mr. Klaver had another question. He wasn't allowed to use mine until you were finished. He had a question about migration. That's what I promised him: one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u186	Yes, because Mr Klaver had not had so many interruptions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u187	He's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe now I'll get a satisfactory answer. I had asked to get some clarification on the issue of migration. The coalition agreement states that, in accordance with existing international judicial frameworks, drownings must be brought to the nearest safe haven, even if that is on the side from which they left; the non-refoulement principle is leading. In what way is the principle of non-refoulement designed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u189	By ensuring that the country you're taking someone to is a country that is not under the prohibition to return to by the non-refoulement principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u190	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u191	Finally, you would ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u192	Well, I'd have an interruption at one point. This is a fairly crucial passage on migration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u193	Yeah, because there's been an earlier attempt on that. We know this phrase. That is fair to say: we know this sentence together, because Mr Klaver has negotiated it a lot with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u194	Sure. That is why I would like to clarify exactly what is meant by this. It's unclearly written down. According to the principle of non-refoulement, an individual test must be carried out per refugee. Per person, then. You can't say that a country is safe and that a whole bup can be sent. If drownings are taken out of the sea, they can, as I read it, be towed directly back to North Africa. When will the individual test take place to know if people are safe there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u195	It's not like that in my eyes. One. I would like to start with one, because Mr Klaver starts at the end. In order to limit immigration, it is important that we ensure that boats do not go to Italy, but stay in Africa. I hope that Mr Klaver agrees with me. To achieve this, agreements are going to be made with those countries. In those countries around the Mediterranean, the main task is to ensure that there are places where people go to receive, apply or are sent back. The great task this cabinet is facing is to prevent them from coming here. That assignment isn't easy at all. So we have to make agreements with these countries so that we can say, as we do now in Turkey, stay there. In Turkey, it is essentially the same. We also say that we do not deal with applications. We can talk about it for a long time, but this will remain my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u196	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u197	In the coalition agreement, it is reworded that drownings taken from the sea are sent back to North Africa without going to Europe first. According to the Turkey deal, they are first brought to Europe. This is a next step. There is no individual key. I am asking for this because it is a very big policy change. This is what Mr Wilders suggested earlier: the Australian model, in which you immediately drag people back to where they come from. It is unclear and I therefore ask for clarification from Mr Buma. Will the boats that will be found at sea be towed directly back to North Africa without first looking at whether the individuals are safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u198	Let me start by saying that this is the situation, perhaps different from what I want. One of the major mistakes that we have in the system is that we first have an incentive to arrive in Europe. We know it won't be possible to send them back after that. So, yeah, you're going to those ports. But of course we are not going to send them to ports where people are immediately returned to their country without any test. That is the agreement we could have made earlier with other parties, but fortunately we could have dealt with all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u199	Thank you. No, Mr. Klaver. Would you like to thank Mr Buma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u200	Yes. For this clear answer, the most clear answer I have received this evening in the many inter-ruption debates. This makes it very clear that the principle of and the right to non-refoulement is not respected in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u201	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u202	Too bad it has to end this way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u203	Thank you very much, Mr Buma. I now give the floor to Mr Roemer on behalf of the SP. May I make a brief announcement? It does not go away from your speaking time, Mr Roemer. A lot has been said about traditions, but no one noticed that I have an old hammer with me. The previous hammer was a gift from a previous cabinet and I thought a new parliamentary year, a new start, a new cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u204	This hammer served in the Old Hall from 1951 to 1992, under Presidents Kortenhorst, Van Thiel, Vondeling, Dolman and Deetman. So a new start, but an old tradition in use again. It's been through and hammered off beautiful historical debates, so I hope we're going to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u205	You look very threatening, Madam President. But it's nice that there's a bit of tradition back in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u206	That's right. Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u207	Madam President, today I see many new faces in Box K. First of all, I want to address them. Welcome to this house and I sincerely wish you all every success and, above all, a great deal of wisdom. It can be a very nice period of tough debates, perhaps nice successes, and I hope for you few disappointments, but it will also be a tough one once in a while and it should be in this house. Mr. Chairman. One face has remained. That's Prime Minister Rutte's face. He did it again, for the third time in a row. I recognize that this round wasn't easy, but he did it: the Rutte story continuouss. I saw a different style. In 2010, this Prime Minister, together with Mr Wilders and Mr Buma, faced a treatment. The Prime Minister then explained how right-wing The Netherlands could lick his fingers through the marriage of PVV, CDA and VVD, but we now know that it became a divorce. In 2012 a new love came. Together with the Labour Party, the VVD bridges were built. But here too, love finally passed and the partner suffered the most blows. At the presentation of Rutte III we saw four gentlemen standing in a white decor. Not together, but I noticed separately. Not so much love was declared, but especially emphasized the differences and what they themselves recognized in them. It looked like a cabinet of each party for itself. We must have confidence in the future say VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion, but the question is: the future will tell us whether these parties have enough confidence in each other for the next three and a half years. Like I said, the future will learn. This Prime Minister has ruled with many parties, from right to left. This Prime Minister has governed our country in different times, in times of economic crisis and in times of economic growth. But whatever the circumstances the country is in, and whatever the party this Prime Minister is with, I note that the differences between people are widening and that the security of people has become more and more under pressure. After the war, we built our welfare state on the idea that people's security of existence is a prerequisite for peace and progress for all. A historical lesson that sometimes seems to have been forgotten. Politics should help people to work on their own future. People should have the idea that politics is there for them too, but that confidence in politics has lost many people. You should be wondering more about why. I often hear you say that the Prime Minister would have no vision. He also says it himself: anyone who wants a vision should go to the ophthalmologist. However, if you look closely at this coalition agreement, but also at the Prime Minister, you will immediately see that the Prime Minister has a vision. You see in the policy what his vision is. The policy also shows who the Prime Minister sits primarily here for and who doesn't or doesn't. Because what do all these hundreds of thousands of care avoiders, who are no longer able to pay for their care costs, have to do with this vision of the Prime Minister? The CDA and Christian Union wanted to significantly reduce their own risk, but the VVD didn't want to. And so it doesn't happen. And then the premiums go up sharply. During the election campaign, many parties agreed that their own risks had to be reduced. Mr Segers and Mr Buma also agreed. I hear a lot of older people who can't afford to risk themselves. We need to reduce our own risk. We must show solidarity together. That is what Mr Buma said on 27 February last in the TV programme Time for MAX. Others, too, I heard disgustingly talk about their own risk. Mr Segers even talked about a fine on being sick. I thought that was a wonderful quote; I had heard it before. But if so many parties in this Chamber want to eliminate or reduce their own risks, as the Christian Union and the CDA wanted, why didn't they? There is still a lot of savings in health care, in hospitals, in community care and in mental health care. But I'm telling you, there's good news, too. The cabinet's gonna make extra money for the nursing homes. I'm very happy about that. But I ask the Prime Minister why there is no standard, so that we are guaranteed sufficient care staff. That way we can prevent money from disappearing to the wrong things. The cost of health accountants increased by 12%. We all don't pay a bounty for that, do we? Is the Prime Minister prepared to settle this after all? It also sounds cynical that the cabinet has to look hard for extra people in care, while in recent years 77.000 people have lost their jobs in care. These people took care of other people with heart and soul, but were fired. How is the cabinet gonna get us to win these people back for this job? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that at least these people deserve a better reward? Mr. Chairman. The health insurance companies are happy with the government agreement. That seems logical to me, but at the same time worrying. The general practitioners and staff in the ggz, home care and care are still very concerned because the workload remains high, while the power of health insurers remains, because market forces in care are not being addressed and millions are still being paid out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u208	I do not hear Mr Roemer's concerns for the first time. He's talking about cuts in health care. First of all, I note that extra money goes to health care. The question is whether you could slow down the growth of healthcare costs. The SP election programme states that there must be a broad agreement. It also states that the neighbourhood care is included. Now from Mr Roemer for the second time his concerns about community nursing. He said to his left-wing friends: we are going to intensify. Why was the SP's election programme included a cut in community nursing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u209	Because we see a lot of opportunities to dampen healthcare expenditure. Especially in the areas of bureaucracy, top salaries in the public sector and market forces, we think we can save a lot of money. I would like to make an appointment with Mr Segers to discuss that. However, that is different from what I see here and what I have seen in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u210	Madam President, that is a strange story, because this is exactly the text that I could also use. We do want to cut bureaucracy. We do want it to be more efficient. We want to move care from the second line to the first line. We can therefore do more with less money. That's exactly what we want. We haven't checked in yet. Mr Asscher is very concerned, but you call it now. You would have booked it. Isn't it weird to attack this coalition so hard when you're doing the exact same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u211	No, that's not weird, because we say that it has to be achieved in the bureaucracy, in the market, in the top salaries, which I will come back to for a moment, and in the profits. We have seen the reports again this week that profits will be paid out in health care via the back door, while we have all agreed here and have even submitted a law that states: no distribution of profits in health care. It's happening anyway. Yes, I agree with you that there is a lot of money to get, but not at the hands on the bed, not at the hands in the house with the people who want to stay home longer, not at home care, not where the care really needs to be given. Money from care really has to go to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u212	I agree with that. Money for care has to go to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u213	Well, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u214	But for the record... There must be a broad agreement. The concerns of the left-wing parties are that the district care could be part of this. That is not at all certain, but it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u215	We'll wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u216	You've booked it yourself. What else do we do, when it comes to community care, than did the SP in the election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u217	What you do is, in particular, allow people to live longer at home, close care homes, so that more is needed, and hardly do anything about bureaucracy. But I'd be happy to wait with you. If you get more district nurses into the neighborhood, we're almost satisfied. If you are going to come up with measures to deal with bureaucracy, then I am satisfied with you. If you're going to help me finally deal with those top salaries in care, I'm happy with you. You say: nothing has yet been decided, there will have to be an agreement. That's what we say. There's got to be an agreement. If that were in there, I wouldn't take it out yet, but let me give you the benefit of the doubt I would embrace it. But I am incredibly afraid that the earlier announced austerity, which the CPB also says will probably be the consequence, if that becomes the hard reality, we are standing opposite each other here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u218	The CPB has said exactly that about the SP election programme. Neighborhood care is part of the main agreement. You have only placed an intensification in the ggz opposite. You didn't do that in the neighborhood nursing. It's booked in with you. With us, it's still an open question. Speak with me, think with me, but you really need to take a different tone if you're going to do something in your own election programme, expressing the fear that we're going to do the same. That's a very strange story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u219	No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u220	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u221	Madam President. I have just indicated it in the debate on the interruption with Mr Segers. At the Ministry there is a law to tackle top income in the public sector. This cabinet throws that law in the trash, while recently it appeared that in the care alone, one in five directors deserves more than a minister. One of those over-earnings has now become the Minister of Medical Care. I would ask the Prime Minister: was that the only way to give Mr Bruins no more than a ministerial salary, to bring him to the cabinet? I ask the Prime Minister to take this law out of the trash and send it to the Chamber, because I cannot believe that there is no majority for it here in this Chamber. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Nor has the Prime Minister been particularly happy with the tenants, who are wondering whether this Prime Minister is there for them. Under this prime minister, the rents exploded. They have increased by more than 25% in recent years. This cabinet also continues to sell social housing. More and more people just can't get an affordable house anymore. There are increasingly less affordable homes, because housing corporations are encouraged to sell rental homes. More and more people who do have a house can't afford the rent anymore. And then the cabinet wants to make sure that the rent allowance is cut. Why hasn't the cabinet chosen to convert the landlord's tax into an investment obligation, so that extra money becomes available for building and maintaining affordable rentals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u222	It is true that the government is not submitting the bill you are referring to. In any case, we have tabled an own-initiative proposal. I'd like to invite the SP to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u223	I'll take a very good look at that. Thank you. VVD and security, it's still a difficult thing. The hard cuts in Justice and Security are still going through. Money is added to this period of government, but that is mainly a softening of the cuts. At the end of the reign, there's just less money going to this ministry. Can the Prime Minister confirm this here, but can he explain that in particular? I wonder what all the overloaded officers, prosecutors, judges and prison guards are getting off on the idea that a million dollars has been spent on the name change. How are we going to track down more criminals and increase the chances of conviction? Mr. Chairman. The new Minister of Justice and Security noted in Rafels that society is falling apart due to the growing inequality between population groups. He wrote that there is a growing group left behind without work or perspective. And he found it contrary to the principles of the rule of law. I am indeed talking about Minister Grapperhaus. In his analysis, market thinking in particular has to pay off. I quote the Minister: "rules that were once intended to protect the weak in society were set aside as moralistic or irrational. The public cause and the people who work for it pay for authority. Multinational companies, aimed at maximizing profits, now made up the service. But if a society does not impose laws on itself, there is no freedom anymore, then only the strongest still prevails." I must confess to you, Madam President, that is very wise words from the Minister of Justice and Security. I congratulate him on that. But can the Prime Minister state if he agrees? And if so, why do we find so little of that in the coalition agreement? If he doesn't agree, then I and Minister Grapperhaus would like to hear it, too, I think. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, we find a lot about the climate in the coalition agreement. It is to be congratulated that this cabinet seems to be making a serious effort to implement the Paris climate objectives. A significant effort is being made to reduce CO emissions. But we have to acknowledge with each other that the plans are still vague. The Planning Office for the Environment shows that current policies are insufficient to achieve the planned reduction. What is the Prime Minister's reaction to this criticism? How are we going to achieve the objectives together? The capture and storage of CO has never been successfully carried out in the Netherlands, and yet this should yield half of the target reduction. Real climate policy is not to put garbage underground, but to produce cleaner. The distribution of costs is also uneven, because the biggest polluters do not pay the most. In dealing with pollution, the bill comes mainly from households. Poor families can't afford the energy bill right now. What I was talking about later in a small debate with Mr Buma: the Groningers had expected a sharper reduction in gas extraction, but they are abandoned again. Gas extraction will only be minimal, and will not be completed for a few years. The coalition agreement follows exactly the previous line of the VVD. What does the Prime Minister have to say to the Groningen people? Does he really think he can regain their trust this way? The Prime Minister isn't here for people looking for more certainty in their work either. More and more people are in a flex job and are not getting a permanent contract anymore. The cabinet wants people to be released faster, but that reduces security for people rather than greater. Wages for workers have also been lagging behind for years. Madam President. Prime Minister Rutte said and gave a great deal of credit that under the new cabinet, everyone would get better. It is right that a lot of people are finally making progress. We're happy about that. That was also badly needed after the past period. But in the calculations of the Nibud, we see that this does not apply to everyone. "Everyone" is mainly the two earners with a high income. It doesn't apply to the single elderly, who isn't making any progress at all. It certainly doesn't apply to an older couple with a small AOW. That's even getting worse. Will the cabinet restore this omission so that the Prime Minister can actually say that everyone is making progress? More and more people will have to work up to 70 or even beyond, even though the unions and more and more employers say that this is not possible at all. When you get your pension, you'll just have to wait and see how high that is. It must have opened the Prime Minister's eyes that even employers now say that people cannot always continue to work. Even cops, if it's up to the cabinet, have to go after the bad guys until they're 67. It'll be behind a rollator sooner. A lot of people want to stay active after they're 65, but they don't have to do that in their old job. This can be done in family care, in volunteering or in association life. Without the commitment of the elderly, our society would not even be able to function. There are so many other people who want to work, but now they're moving from job to job. The plans of this employers' cabinet, as many call it, only increase uncertainty. The Prime Minister is certainly not there for all those people with disabilities who are now being made a second-class citizen. First the social workshops were closed and the influx stopped, now these people are forced to work below the minimum wage. This is just discrimination against people with disabilities. I ask the Prime Minister the following. Why are these people worth less to you? Why are these second-class citizens for you? Why can't work according to wealth just pay so that you get minimum wage for that? Mr. Chairman. Before I went into politics, I was in front of the class for almost 18 years. The beauty of working with children is that they dare to dream of the future, but that future has become uncertain for many young people because they have to make a job without a prospect of permanent employment, because they want to build a family but cannot have a home or because they have to put themselves in debt when they go to college. Nor is the Prime Minister here for those young people, at least not for children from lower-income families who want to study and build their future. But they're in debt. No matter how hard Mr Buma called for a basic grant: young people should not be in debt, but you should learn a profession. It is these young people who are also a symbol of the country we want to be. Are we a country where everyone has to take care of themselves, as the VVD wants us to, or are we a country in which we invest in each other, in the community and in the future? Mr. Chairman. Real refugees who want to integrate and work here are making it increasingly difficult. Children who have lived here for years and have built their lives here cannot count on a child's pardon. It is painful to note that this has not been included in the coalition agreement, I would also say in the direction of Mr Segers. Nemer, Sani, Leon, Aida, Serena: all children born here know nothing but the Netherlands. Unfortunately, they have been exchanged. This cabinet does not come up with any plan to curb the financial sector in the EU, which is responsible for the emergence of the euro crisis. In fact, the cabinet leaves all the room to banks to lower the buffer requirements. More dubious products, no transaction tax, no separation of business and utility banks. This Chamber has also made a clear statement on the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which we do not want to participate in, but it seems that this cabinet ignores that statement of the Chamber. The Prime Minister calls in his own country that he does not want a European superstate, but gives more and more control in Brussels. Can he clarify this now? Mr. Chairman. 10 December a.s., the international coalition for the abolition of nuclear weapons ICAN receives the Nobel Peace Prize. I would like to congratulate them from here on this. Forty years ago, the campaign "Help the nuclear weapons out of the world, to start from the Netherlands." Then the military had six nuclear tasks, now there's another one, and everyone knows that on Volkel American nuclear bombs are in front of the F16. This summer, the treaty against nuclear weapons was signed. The Netherlands did not want to sign that treaty so far. I ask the Prime Minister to do so as soon as possible. Is he willing to do that? Otherwise, I am considering tabling a motion on this point in the second term. Mr. Chairman. Since President Trump took office in the United States, tensions in the world have only increased. The cabinet wants to extend a number of military missions: in Mali, in Iraq, in Syria, in Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, the United States is asking us to participate in an operation without a clear end goal. In Iraq and Syria, where ISIS has largely been reduced, an extremely unclear situation has arisen. A solution is farther away than ever. Mr President, there has been war on terrorism for 16 years, but what are the results? More terrorist attacks than before 2001. More radical organizations. More refugees. More victims. What does that say? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. We had a debate in the Chamber which showed that the interests of safe ammunition and good medical supplies were subordinated to the progress of the mission in Mali. I sincerely ask the Prime Minister: is it not time that the Netherlands stopped these missions? Mr. Chairman. However, I am pleased that more money is being spent to help countries elsewhere in the world in their development, especially after the severe cuts in Rutte II, and I am also pleased that more is being invested in the reception of refugees in the region. That is incredibly necessary, I know from my own experience, but in addition to help, we will also have to tackle the causes of poverty. Countries cannot develop if the multinationals do not pay taxes there. That avoidance of taxes goes way too often through our country. What is the government really going to do to really help these countries in their fight against poverty? Keep people from running. Mr. Chairman. Liberals once fought for our democracy. Thorbecke introduced direct voting rights in 1848. Cort van der Linden in 1917 the general right of men to choose. Prime Minister Rutte wants to go down in history as the Liberal Prime Minister who abolished democratic law, under the watchful eye of Mr Pechtold of a party that itself took the initiative for a genuinely binding referendum, but did not defend that proposal after the Ukraine referendum. Mr. Chairman. How can people trust politicians who distrust people themselves? Mr Buma said that he does not regard the forthcoming referendum on the drag law as a real referendum. This makes our country more and more like a Bumacracy, a country where people can say yes or no, but politicians drive their own will. I look forward to the March referendum on the drag law, because then people can also say no to this administrative arrogance. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that large companies are still making large profits, but that less tax will be paid on these profits. But companies have been paying less and less taxes in recent years. 164 billion profits in 2009 and 196 billion profits now, but now 2% less contributions to the taxes of the Netherlands. The Netherlands is starting a nice tax war, as I have already said. The Netherlands was already a tax haven, but now we are going to organise a race to the bottom in Europe, a tax war, by lowering profits taxes for large companies, abolishing dividends tax. I'm asking the Prime Minister to assure us that he's going to stop doing that. Mr. Chairman. According to the European Commission, no other country in the EU offers multinationals as much opportunities to avoid tax as the Netherlands. 80 of the 100 largest American multinationals have branches in the Netherlands, also to avoid tax. I'm asking the Prime Minister who came up with all this. Who planned to abolish the dividend tax? Who has planned to further reduce the tax on profits for large companies? Who whispered all that to you? We have just heard from Mr Buma that that was VNO-NCW. I'm curious about that dynamic. What was the Prime Minister's correct phone number? Why is one call from Hans de Boer enough for 1.4 billion and why was that not enough for 60,000 teachers in primary education? Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the agreement on which VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion negotiated for six months. You won't be surprised, but I think it can be different and better on a number of fronts. That is why we have also proposed a number of alternatives with colleagues Asscher and Klaver. Not an alternative coalition agreement, because we have not negotiated for six months, but a number of alternatives to the coalition agreement. A social adjustment, by putting people above multinationals. If we don't make multinationals pay less taxes, people won't have to pay more for their groceries. We put teachers, nurses and agents over investors and banks. An extra for people who work instead of less tax for foreign shareholders. We're not gonna cut down on people with disabilities, but we're gonna make it possible to quit work sooner. We let the big polluters pay a little extra for their emissions instead of ordinary Dutch people through their energy bill. We're not gonna let the Groningen choke, but we're gonna support them. And we want to build more affordable rental and buying houses. We also want to make houses more attractive and we want to invest more in a nice neighborhood. And of course we stop at all the risk, the penalty for being sick, so that people no longer have an obstacle to go to the doctor and care for everyone remains affordable. Mr. Chairman. It is not an alternative agreement, but a hand-out; a proposal to spend billions better than the cabinet proposes. A handout to a coalition with a narrow majority. I am therefore counting on the coalition's benevolent attitude, because there is a need to adapt and improve things if this cabinet is to become even a cabinet of ordinary people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u224	Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting until 7 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u225	We are continuing the debate on the declaration of government. We are still working on the first term of office. I give the floor to Mr Pechtold on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u226	Madam President. D66 opts for cooperation. We do so with conviction, with confidence and with due pride. We're doing it to move the Netherlands forward. We cannot and do not want to stand on the sidelines at this important moment for our country, for Europe and for the world. Climate change threatens our survival. Opportunity inequality feeds the distrust between population groups. Believe in politics, progress, science, the rule of law and international cooperation are under unprecedented pressure. Popularism and nationalism always find new scapegoats for problems, but do not offer solutions for people. The time for solutions, for new perspectives, I dare even say: for visions is now. My party now chooses to take responsibility. The coalition agreement is the result of a sometimes complex but always careful process. A process of finding a common ground. And of course also a process of bridging sometimes considerable contradictions. Such a process does not go without good cooperation. The cooperation with the colleagues of ChristenUnion, CDA and VVD is based on good will and respect for each other's deeply rooted beliefs. Above all, our cooperation is based on a conviction that unites us. That is the realization that we have to deal with the confidence of voters and that they expect us to respond to the challenges we face. Without that shared awareness, you'll never get out. My party campaigned last year for opportunities for everyone. Education as a driving force for personal and economic development. Education as an oxygen for our democracy, which depends on well-informed, interested and empowering participants. Radical sustainability as a moral duty, but also as an economic opportunity. Ever deeper European integration as a peace project, but also as a harder necessity in a changing world. None of this is achieved without cooperation. And that's not easy and not always comfortable, but it's necessary. That was also heard throughout the Netherlands this year. D66 became the largest progressive party for the first time. A solid mandate to participate in an inclusive, ambitious and progressive cabinet. The morning after the election, the formation dance began. In the Dutch tradition there was rapid indignation. Journalists, clearers, disappointed politicians, all were often outright critical: it took so long. The country was so excited. The Chamber was so misinformed. People had to do it with the evasive language of fast-walking negotiators. Only occasionally one of us let a ray of light fall on the chord under construction, sometimes accidentally, sometimes not. And I too am critical of this aspect of the process. It was on the initiative of my party that the Chamber itself took control of the process of forming a government. This was only the second time. An important moment: the Chamber had to prove itself again. Now on a harder assignment than five years ago. For a moment I was afraid of a relapse after GroenLinks walked away from the negotiating table. The way forward was not immediately clear. The sight of closed curtains and the smell of steaming cigars seemed to light up for a moment. But the Chamber kept its back straight. That is not to say that the new process is already perfect. As far as I'm concerned, the last children's diseases haven't come out yet. In this formation, one informant had a different regime than the other. That's okay, too. In all three cases, not much happened in total openness. Within the limits of our parliamentary system, that remains understandable and justifiable. Formation discussions are bad with the camera's light box. As far as my group is concerned, however, the limits could be stretched slightly. People need to understand more about the main elements of the agenda. At the same time, we must continue to guard against fake transparency. No one needs an empty shell of meaningless commentary or tactical fakes. It is not just a question of accountability, but also of people having the opportunity to participate in the process step by step. Mr. Chairman. I must admit, I didn't expect this formation to last so long. For my group, the first wish was a coalition with GroenLinks. After 100 days, these negotiations collapsed for the second and last time. GroenLinks wanted to have his hands free for his own building, a movement. I have to respect that. What followed was a dripping slump of rejection. There was only one possible coalition left. That was an unorthodox composition. All four of us wanted to speed things up, but we didn't want to rush them. All four of us said no to a trial of blunt quartets. All four of us tried to find each other in the depths of our beliefs. All four of us wanted to save the voter a new path to the ballot box. But the devil is hiding in the details. We were aware of that. That's why the final phase looked like cleaning up Grandma's attic. We all wanted to see everything one more time, let everything go through our hands one more time, before we closed the door behind us the last time. Mr President, you will shortly be carrying out an evaluation of the formation process. I may be getting ahead of myself, but I'm not dissatisfied. Mr. Chairman. People expect us to come to solutions together in The Hague, whether it is about the process or about the content. Together, we must make sense of what we are doing and therefore keep each other sharp. It is very important that we stick to the facts. The fact is that D66 complies with the core agreements we made in the campaign with the Netherlands. Education is getting more personal. The teacher, the master and the teacher have more time in the classroom. Work's really gonna pay off. Everyone who goes out to work day in, day out will soon pay less tax. We invest more in our health care. There will be extra hands to take care of our fathers, our mothers, our grandparents and our grandmothers. We're working on integration. Refugees are finally allowed to participate from day one. And we are taking immediate action against climate change. We can look our kids in the eye with that. I do not feel the need to dive into every detail of every rule of the coalition agreement now, but while we are dealing with the facts, I still want to take a little grip.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u227	I'd like to work on every detail. That is why we are holding this debate today. Mr. Pechtold indicated that the devil is in the details. I would like to remind him of a text from his election programme: "We are proud that people of different origin are Dutch. No one has to give up their original nationality in the Netherlands." When you are young and live in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, you think: beautiful, how nice. When you live in Kanalen Island, you think: how beautiful, how beautiful. But what do you then see in the government agreement on double nationality? We spent an hour and a half discussing this dual nationality today, including Mrs Ollongren. And then it says: broadening double nationality. At the same time, for future generations, there will be a mandatory decision-making process which will effectively lead to the retention of no more than one nationality. Mr Pechtold, will you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u228	First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Kuzu for having purchased the rather expensive version of our coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u229	Mr. President, I got it. I wouldn't spend a penny on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u230	Well, that's disappointing. Maybe you can get signatures from the entire group right away, then it'll be worth more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u231	I'm willing to give them all a hand. That's all you need to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u232	Mr Kuzu mentioned someone in Amsterdam or Rotterdam who reads that. Just for the generation that lives here now, we want to see what is in the coalition agreement, is still quite abstract and will require further study if we can deal with it more calmly. There is now a picture that having two nationalities would lead to a problem with identity or loyalty. It also means that Dutch people who live abroad and sometimes feel insecure about it get more security. The downside of that is that we want to see in the future whether, if new children are born, we can say at some point: your parents were born here, you were born here, isn't it time to choose a nationality? That will be a complicated discussion and I wonder if this will succeed in the next cabinet period, because there are incredibly many international aspects to it. I don't think the discussion about that is crazy. Especially because there is uncertainty on one side of this coin, but there are also questions on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u233	I think the coalition agreement is pretty clear about this. Mr Buma has done this quite wisely by adding the word 'at the same time'. At the moment when we talk about "enlargement" and "something more relaxed" with the whole discussion about identity, there comes a time when there will be a mandatory choice. For a liberal like you, such a "obligatory moment of choice" disappoints me. Why does Mr Pechtold choose to join in the frame that for future generations identity could not consist of possession of two nationalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u234	I think it is important that when you are born here, grow up, participate in this society and have children, in the future you live in a society that is aware of what it stands for and in which we can address each other. In that discussion, we want to see this in common. You point grif on the other side of the coin, the current Dutch with double passports, also abroad. It will be difficult, because with some countries it is hardly possible to do so unilaterally, which is quite different. In the world you have various regimes about this. In fact, the Netherlands has never had a good, fundamental discussion about this. I support that we will do so in the future, as stated in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u235	In my opinion, we have been having a discussion in this Parliament on the possession of dual nationality for a long time. I note that D66 says that it should continue to apply to the present generation and that it will be difficult to say anything about this for future generations. In fact, you say that Mrs Ollongren may keep her dual nationality, but Mrs Ollongren's children must make a choice. I think that many people who voted in Amsterdam Nieuw-West, Utrecht Kanaleneiland or Rotterdam Afrikanerwijk on D66 with the hope of voting for a party that has a strong interest in diversity will be very disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u236	If they were, they're right. That is not the case, because it does not apply to Mrs Ollongren or to her children. It could apply in the future to children of children. You are talking about people who may have three or four nationalities, because we are now very mellow. Then it's a piece of paper? Are there any commitments to this? In the past, there were problems with compulsory service, because people wanted nationality, but not compulsory service. It is on the one hand that we are going to have a discussion on this, also in a European context, and we are going to see how we are going to deal with it in the future. You're pointing out the side where you and I will be very sharp in judging if it's not some kind of bullying. But on the other hand, I think that is the beauty of the part that you have just read out is that we are also a little less cramped with people who now have dual nationality. Those people, you get those e-mails, too, often go abroad and say, "Yes, my children are in trouble. The Netherlands will start this discussion about how we handle it in an adult modern way." You name one side, but I am also very happy with the other side. I have faith in that one side. We are going to do that together and I predict you, Mr Kuzu: a lot will happen before anything changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u237	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u238	Of course. Nor will I deny that we are satisfied on the one hand, but it is mainly about the other, about future generations. I would like to say to Mr Pechtold that I sincerely wish him every success in the negotiations with Mr Buma in the coming period. In 2014 he indicated in an interview with the Elsevier: you become a Dutchman or you stay Moroccan. This is the quote, this is the way the CDA looks at this. I sincerely wish you every success, and I hope I do not have to accuse you at this time of the fact that D66 is the passport packing party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u239	When Mr Buma proudly showed me his Frisian passport, I said: Buma, know what you're getting into! Oh, so is Mr Zijlstra. Well, look at that. My mother almost calls it a cabinet of De Kameleon with Wiebe, Halbe and Wopke and... Lots of Frisians!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u240	It's a cheap version, but let's check it out. I have just heard Mr Pechtold say: if it becomes difficult, I consider it an interesting discussion. That offers a lot of room for dualism. So if all four say "I find this difficult and a discussion about it never hurts," then I might remember one more. On page 55 of the cheap version of the government agreement, it says that people with status will no longer receive benefits, but only in kind. Now Mr Pechtold knows that this cannot be done; that is unequal treatment. Mr Rutte knows that too, because we have figured that out before. Mr Zijlstra knows that, because he was there. Mr Dijkhoff knows. There were a lot of people involved in these negotiations who know that's not possible. How am I supposed to read that? Is that such an interesting discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u241	We can't do things that can't, but we'll run into them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u242	When you wrote it down, you knew it couldn't be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u243	I said things that can't be done. I'm not saying this isn't possible. I say things that can't go... That's not gonna happen, and we're gonna run into that on our own. Perhaps in the past seven months we have missed something. But in total... What is at the heart and where, I think, the policy of the previous cabinet and this cabinet actually follow each other smoothly is that you want status holders to avoid the red tape. What is affecting all the other ordinary Dutch people all day today is the application of all the regulations we have, the surcharges we have and so on. Now this cabinet is planning to actually take care of people with a status in the first period and make sure that they can simply integrate quickly, take language lessons and do that work. You have indeed taken it very well that in kind they are offered all the other things that are needed for the first need for life. I look forward to it, and I also have a great deal of confidence in municipalities, in our fellow governments, that they are going to fill that in properly and appropriately with the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u244	Someone said not so long ago: the devil is in the details. And now we are going to fill it out together, because of course this sounds fantastic: a relief with service, less red tape and less administrative burden. I'm afraid if we do it this way, it's gonna increase the suction. But of course it means it's voluntary. A status holder can choose to do this, because he has the right, just like any Dutch citizen who is legally resident here, to that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u245	The intention is that with your status... I think people are very happy with that, because the real refugees have fled from the most horrible things. They come in this country, they get offered this and they grow in that way. I don't find anything wrong with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u246	You may not find anything wrong with it, but you can't. And you know that's true. You can't make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u247	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u248	No, you know that's true. You also think you should speak the truth in this Parliament if you are standing there. You know it can't be done. Several people at the negotiating table knew that. Then why are you writing it down? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u249	You could say, and some might say, "Oh, well, in practice, it's gonna work out the way I want it to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u250	I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u251	I'm completely honest. I said just now: as far as I am concerned, people who care are offered that house, they are given the space not to look for all these things themselves, and they can fully rely on their integration. If you're saying you can't, we still need to see it. Rules are there for us and we're not there for the rules. Then we'll see if it can be fixed. But I didn't mean to. That's in the question. Is it intended to bully people and make them integrate worse? No, it's not, the opposite. The aim is to ensure that they learn the language quickly, that they find themselves in a smaller shelter, that they find themselves in a place where, if they have a profession that may lead to faster employment in a particular region, they can do so too. That's what it's meant for. It's not meant to interfere. It is meant to be, because we are talking about status holders to ensure that you can participate in this society step by step. We have experienced in the past that people are stuck in bureaucracy. I've seen people up close myself who are really happy that they're here, but they get stuck and sometimes they don't participate after years, because this is the kind of thing that's the problem. So if you can't do it, we're gonna get it done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u252	This means putting aside the right to equal treatment, an important fundamental right, which Mr Pechtold also attaches to. This is in fact a barrier to the application of this principle. Mr Pechtold knows that. You could say, "Beautiful negotiation." There was a self-congratulation in it. Sometimes you write something down and you think: it does run into the wall. But it feeds cynicism about politics when you write something down and give people the idea that it's going to happen when you know it's not. But then voluntarily, then it's consistent with the intent. This makes the viewers more cynical. You know this can't be done. You wrote it down. Smart negotiation, bad politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u253	Let's see if this is indeed unequal treatment. I'd like to see that first. We were talking about the facts and I want to take a hold of the facts that I see in this agreement. The fact is that the Netherlands remains a beacon of European ambition. This coalition knows that the European Union as it now exists is not a solution but an intermediate position. We'll support her and move her forward. We embrace continuous change as a prerequisite for addressing the major challenges of our time, whether climate, energy, migration, terrorism, defence or tax evasion. We do not live in 1850 but in 2017. It is also the fact that ambitious reforms make it possible to get back to a permanent job, a merchant house and a better pension. The fact is that our rich art and cultural heritage becomes more accessible to everyone. The fact is that we invest more in development aid, like a rich and civilized country like ours should. The fact is that we do not stand still on medical-ethical themes. The fact is that we are going to do the rainbow voting agreement. The fact is that partners do not get two days but six weeks' leave at the birth of their child. The fact is that we show solidarity in our Kingdom, especially towards the heavily affected BES islands. The fact is that the Netherlands is the first in Europe to conduct serious experiments with the regulation of weed cultivation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u254	And another fact is that the government agreement states that the law on consultative referendum will be repealed. What happened to you putting your signature underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u255	Last time you said, "Where were you?" That's what I reported back then. What happened to D66 agreeing to this? The consultative referendum was an adaptation to the corrective referendum. From the corrective referendum, I noticed that many of the initiators recently said: we are not going to do that, we are not going to pull that dead horse. With the consultative referendum as a stepping stone, we have now experimented extensively twice, and soon a third time. There will be another evaluation, but the interim experience teaches me that, as it has now been presented, it was perceived as a disappointment by people at the time they found out that it was really consultative and that we as a parliament keep our own responsibility in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u256	But there is nothing in the way of simply following the opinion of the people expressed in that referendum. D66 could not have ratified the association agreement with Ukraine after the people had convincingly said no to that treaty. There's nothing in the way, is there? You're hiding behind the fact that it's strictly non-binding, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u257	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u258	What stood in the way of simply following the wishes of the people after that referendum on 6 April?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u259	That we didn't agree. The Prime Minister said at first: it's a treaty. After that, he saw in his vision, to describe it as such, the geopolitical consequences somewhat more. In doing so, he convinced not only the rest of Europe that a number of adjustments were needed, but also Ukraine eventually agreed to do so. D66 supported that process in the campaign and after that it also took a little while to support it. In the end, we have made our decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u260	Wait a minute. Do I hear Mr Pechtold say that Ukraine finally voted in favour of Mr Rutte's amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u261	No, Mr. Baudet, otherwise we'll have another story. Ukraine, as a partner with the 28 countries, has also had to accept that these were the changes. Was it 28 then, was Croatia already there? Yes. Ukraine, of course, did not have the right of assent, but it accepted, to my best knowledge, that those were the changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u262	That's not true. Ukraine has not agreed in any way to any deposit sheet. I think it is very important to do this, so to speak, properly. What Mr Pechtold says is simply wrong. No amendments have been made to the Association Agreement. The agreements contained in that agreement, with all its far-reaching implications, have been fully implemented, even though the people have convincingly said no. Here I hear Mr Pechtold say that if the referendum had been binding, he would have been in favour of it, but he himself does not follow the wishes of the people!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u263	In the history of the referendum, which has been the subject of discussion since the 1980s, the confusion between corrective and advisory has been repeated. This has also happened throughout the whole process of that legislation, largely against the wishes of my party. It is also at the root of the problems we have experienced now, especially the last time. We started to put more and more numbers in it, such as the turnout and the number of signatures needed, which made us feel more and more that it was no longer advisory but corrective. For example, in the case of what Mr Baudet is talking about, it created the impression that you can say no to a treaty that you conclude with 27 other countries with a neighbouring country of Europe on your own. The frustration surrounding that voice has led us to say that we no longer want it to be so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u264	Mr Baudet, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u265	The House of Representatives also ratifies. The House of Representatives also says "yes" or "no" to international treaties. In fact, therefore, in your view, the people should not take part in decisions taken at European level, even if almost everything is now decided at European level. You're just trying to abolish democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u266	No, Mr. Baudet. Before you walked around here, we also had a European democracy. It was called European elections. Once every five years, the Dutch can elect their delegation to the European Parliament. If they think that political parties here in the Chamber are wrong about the mandate they give us as parties, they can either punish us in the interim or they can reward us. So that is a great deal of influence in direct democracy, even when it comes to Europe. That this is better, that Europe is not yet finished in this respect, as I have just said, and that I see it as an intermediate position in an ongoing process, we agree. I look forward to your participation in the European elections as well, or to your saying, in principle, that I do not want to do so. Of course, there's a chance. With Wilders, that's a little unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u267	Who's next? Mrs Thieme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u268	I was still on the point of the details of the coalition agreement. Can I check another one of those? Because the debate on the referendum will continue for a while, says my gut. Pechtold is so busy right now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u269	Is that all right with you, Mrs Thieme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u270	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u271	We've just seen an appointment that does, but Pechtold knows she's not here. Last time I asked the serious question to Mark Rutte, when he was still as VVD leader and negotiator of the VVD-leader, he was still in charge of whether any agreements had been made on the abortion pill. It was reported in a number of newspapers, but that was systematically and absolutely denied at the time. Now it appears in the news: the new coalition is putting a line through the abortion pill. Mr President, you will understand that this is making us uneasy. Those medical-ethical agreements are extremely sensitive. I understand that they are also sensitive to the Christian parties. At the same time, many people are concerned about what this means for medical research, for the NIP test, for progress needed to prevent serious diseases. Question 1: Is this such a detail that has been agreed, but is not in the text? Then you'd better say it now. Question 2: what exactly is the story about this embryo legislation? Edith Schippers made a good law for that, weighed "no, unless," after eleven years of discussion. Now we read that there is a need for discussion. I think it's been there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u272	Mr Asscher mentioned three things. If I am not mistaken, the Prime Minister would come back tomorrow to the part of his question about the abortion pill. We were equally surprised and understood that this also led to a misunderstanding with the Prime Minister in the previous debate. He thought you were asking if the NIP test was going on. The answer to that is yes. On the bill on the abortion pill that was there, your second subject, all four parties were not satisfied, some from their Christian background. They did not think that the abortion pill should perhaps be made available at all. He's just available at abortion clinics now. Just to be safe, we're not talking about the morning-after pill, we're talking about the abortion pill. It is now available at the abortion clinic, but there was a proposal from the previous cabinet to make it available via the general practitioner. The liberal parties had difficulty with that. When we saw the whole bill, we said: that brings with it a lot of trouble for the general practitioner, because it has to go about certification as an abortion clinic. At that time we asked the question: is this really a matter of principle? No, because the pill is available in the Netherlands for anyone who wants it. Do we want to do this in this way, with all the extra regulations, which also the general practitioners object to? My group had already said in an earlier speech that we had reservations about this. So we're withdrawing that bill. That's the second part. And since I want to do this securely, I'm gonna get to the embryos now. On this point, we agreed that nothing should be reversed, that embryos necessary for research and arising from IVF procedures could be used and that obstacles such as numbers and time limits should not be a problem. In addition, gender selection is possible when it comes to very serious diseases. You should think of diseases that partners, both men and women, know is that the risk of the child taking over this disease is 60% to 80%. Then we can select by gender. The cabinet will examine all other questions about embryos or even medical-ethical questions that it has not described in the coalition agreement, on the basis of a number of questions, a number of prisms, as Rutte calls them. Then you have to think about questions such as: what is the state of science, to what extent has the social debate been conducted and: are there alternatives? If these cases have been dealt with in a secure manner, they can also be submitted to the Chamber during this period of office. Those are the agreements about how we deal with things that are unexpectedly coming up from the social debate or science. We've taken care of those other cases specifically. But it is just as important for you to know, and otherwise the Prime Minister will say tomorrow, I think, that he thought you were talking about the NIP test, so you were right to ask about the abortion pill available to the general practitioner. That was the confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u273	Thank you for that honest answer. What's happening here is very serious. I specifically asked in three instances about the abortion pill. There stood the man who was a reformer a moment later saying: no, there are no agreements about that. Why is that serious? Three weeks have passed since then. I have the same number and the House of Representatives is available. Apparently, the plan was to say tomorrow where you said "abortion pill," I heard "NIP test." That's not good, that's really not good. There appears to have been an appointment that hasn't been written down and it doesn't seem fair to communicate about it. I'm sure that wasn't conscious; I know Mark Rutte well enough for that. But you didn't fix it right away when it became clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u274	Then let's take a stand before a conspiracy theory comes into being here. I didn't register it myself back then. Only very recently, in the preparation of this debate, perhaps you will be able to see the evidence when we looked at the list of legislative proposals to be withdrawn, there was a question: did Asscher ask, didn't he ask? I'll just say it the way it's been discussed. Then we said yes, but that was the NIP test. Then came the confusion. We didn't think for three weeks, never mind. It wasn't until recently, in preparation. The Prime Minister said: I put that right in my first term. You're asking me about it. I can still see the Prime Minister nodding yes, and I'll do it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u275	Okay, fair enough. Stand by for an appointment that's not in the coalition agreement. There is no need for a new social debate on embryo legislation. We already know very well that Edith Schippers, as minister of medicine, has written, after consultation, also of confessional parties, that three very exceptional cases of embryo research would be allowed: if people were infertile, if people were infertile as a result of cancer treatment and in order to prevent extremely serious communicable diseases. If we are not careful, it will be postponed as a result of this agreement. This is extremely bad news for those who have or fear such diseases. Can I ask Mr Pechtold whether an agreement has also been reached here that has not been written down that this is being postponed? Then I can reassure him: that social discussion has been, that weighting has been. If there were any alternatives, that's also in the magic formula, I was for it too, but there aren't any. Then one can now go through, not to hurt or tease anyone, but in the interests of the health of many.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u276	The medical-ethical paragraph is almost word for word. A number of things have been settled, namely the relationship between dignified ageing and the process of completed life and embryo selection, exactly as it says. Beyond that, nothing is regulated on these subjects, other than that we have agreed on those prisms that allow the debate to take place here. As an interested party in a careful process, including with two parties that look very differently at it, I say that this must be done carefully, with due care for me rather than haste. So if you say to me now "I still have a few parts that have been running for a long time," I say: Mr Asscher, I'm going to take a quiet look at whether my colleagues agree. You would have done the same if you had formed a coalition based on this kind of agreement, also based on trust that it will be handled carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u277	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u278	Mr President, thank you. An appointment that is not true but is written down, an appointment that is not written down but which does mean a lot to people and here an appointment that is open to interpretation. I explain it in this way: where there has been a social debate, one can move forward in the interests of health. And if it's any different, we'll find out soon enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u279	It seems to me that it is a good task for the leaders in this area to answer all your questions as specifically as possible in the course of the budgetary procedure. Once again, the three-stage questions that we then ask ourselves as a cabinet and coalition must have gone through carefully, otherwise I am even against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u280	It is difficult to go back from such a complex ethical issue to the referendum debate. However, I would like to do so, because it was one of the crown jewels of D66. The intention of the introduction of the consultative referendum was from Democratic '66 to involve the population more in everything we decide here and make them think with it. After we had the consultative referendum, it turned out that the people wanted to talk about European matters. What we see next is that D66 says: ho, we are so in favour of this European project; we do not want the people to talk about it. Let's just say the animal by its name: democracy only counts when it comes to the subjects that D66 wants to talk about, but not when it comes to the European project, because that has to go on coûte que coûte. Surely that cannot be different from the conclusion that D66 now wants to repeal the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u281	Were it not that Mrs Thieme, you are running a young party, I may lead a party that has now celebrated its 50th anniversary, our members have put this in our election programme. It says that they believe that referenda should not be about international treaties and not about matters that we are not talking about on our own. For the future, I would like to see discussions with you and with other progressive parties on how we are going to proceed after, as far as I am concerned, the disappointments so far. My party has received many in this respect over the past few decades, but we are moving forward bravely. The process of this formation is one of them, taking the mayor out of the Constitution becomes another. But I would like to discuss with progressive parties how we are going to continue this relationship of representative democracy, with direct democracy, in this century.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u282	But it was a D66 crown jewel. The fact that Members at the D66 Congress say that they do not want the referendums to be about Europe is fine. But D66 has an important responsibility for the extra-created forms of democracy and cannot just put it aside, especially if the party is going to rule together with parties that are not so much of the referenda in the first place. Surely it cannot be different that everyone understands that this was a form of exchange to repeal the law on the consultative referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u283	Should I interfere with the affairs in my party, Mrs Thieme will do so, I think, with conviction in her party. The members of D66... This is just for the idea, because people are always saying that we have been thinking of this since 1966. No, that's since the '80s. Van Mierlo would turn around in his grave; Van Mierlo had nothing to do with referenda. I'm just saying to put everything back in perspective. We have a search for that direct democracy. We wanted the corrective referendum. Parties such as GroenLinks and PvdA have also said at some point that it should not be done this way anymore. I think that was also after an amendment at a GroenLinks conference. That's what you're doing. The corrective referendum was the final objective. The consultative was an intermediate step. In fact, it seemed as if this had become the ultimate goal, because everyone thought: we now have a turnout, a majority and then they do what they do. But that's fake democracy. That's not what we wanted. So, besides the other arguments I just mentioned, that was the reason to say that it shouldn't be like this anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u284	Does Mr Pechtold not recognise that the only way to make the gap between citizens and politics worse is to abolish the law on the consultative referendum? People already have the idea, and rightly so, that politics just allows them with their backs. Even if there is a referendum, politics doesn't care and doesn't listen to them. Now that a democratic party is helping to abolish such a law on the consultative referendum, will that crisis of confidence only be deepened? You should at least acknowledge that? We have a big problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u285	I believe that my contribution so far has been on how we are trying to renew democracy in a transparent but also careful and serious way. Mrs Thieme disagrees with me. I explain the internal process in my party, which we have been conducting for 50 years. I explain how at the last congress people felt this doesn't work, just like with other parties. That was actually anticipating the evaluation we are about to receive. I'm running a party other than Mrs Thieme, otherwise we'd have to go to a merger. Can't I say on behalf of my members and my constituents that I think this is a failure? I will tell you quite frankly that I have met a lot of people in recent years who said: I would like to vote in that club of yours, but this whole referendum thing really can't go on anymore. Then I explained that I am okay with people criticizing this form, but I challenged them to do so to all of us to keep looking for ways in which you can shape that representation and also direct democracy. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u286	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u287	"Animal 66" would be a nice name for that merger party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u288	Sure, and that's gonna be a formidable opponent. Bring it on. Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u289	Let me now put a question about the referendum, specifically about the referendum to be held on the drag law. Your fellow coalition parties have already indicated that this law will be passed anyway, that it does not matter what the outcome of that referendum is. My question to Mr Pechtold is how he stands in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u290	We'll just wait and see. We have seen today that the Election Council has said that there will be a referendum. Well, tribute and congratulations to the initiators. As you can see, the Minister of the Interior has written a letter clarifying a number of issues around the date of introduction and the problems involved. You have also seen, that is fact three, that in the coalition agreement we have made, I think you know which parties were behind it, among other things, and have made a number of agreements that could address the objections that were at least at D66 in the Second and First Chamber with regard to the current law. Just before the elections, we, your party and my party, tried to do so with many amendments. We've never been against an intelligence and security law. We have never opposed the fact that these services also have access to the new opportunities for people to prepare for terrorism, especially on the Internet. That is why, if there is more certainty about the time limit for evaluation and the application of the law, we will make our final assessment. During the same period, the campaign is taking place and we are going to participate fully in it. What we do after that is open. But I have two or three steps to take first, and that is what I find so careful in all matters. But I also want to do expectation management. We have put a number of things into the coalition agreement, and if it happens properly, I believe that we are in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u291	Okay. The coalition agreement. What I see again is that there will be an evaluation in two years' time and for the rest the explanation that Plasterk has constantly given here in the House of Representatives to this law on guarantees. I do not yet see anything about the proposals that your party and my party have made in the course of the debate. I believe that more than 30 amendments have been tabled. I am glad to hear you say that you are waiting for the consultative referendum. I am from a different school than some here at the interrupting microphone saying that you should always follow it: if it is said no, you should also be against this law. What I would like is for there to be room to look when the voter has spoken and has said "not this way." This law could therefore be amended. What I see happening is that Mr Wilders has already indicated that he would withdraw his support if people voted against in the referendum. This means that the voice of D66 becomes crucial in the question of whether or not that law will be passed. It would be a good thing for me if at least there were room for D66 and hopefully in the coalition to discuss with each other what the objections of the opponents are and how we could incorporate them into that law, so that there would indeed be a new law. It is clear that the legislation on intelligence and security services needs to be renewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u292	This is exactly why referenda are finally going wrong, I think I can say, namely that there is a political debate about 'what are you going to do if it is so soon'. So the debate is about whether a party is running. Because the PVV was before and now, probably strategically, seems to be going against it. And he does this and he does that, and we are going to talk about what we are going to do with the outcome of a possible referendum in this case. If I may choose where to put the weight of the debate over the next few weeks and months, that is what the Ministers are actually two ministers, because Mrs Bijleveld has also been involved in this. Are they going to assure us that an earlier evaluation also means that early childhood diseases can be removed from the law? Can they give us guarantees in line with previous amendments? Well, we'll see. I'm sure there'll be another debate among specialists. I've been able to look into it for the past seven months. We'll be a long way from here. I'd put the emphasis on that. That is what I find difficult about this debate: is the referendum going to go on, yes or no, and is the result respected, yes or no? I think the Netherlands would like to know why such a large majority was in favour of introducing that law and why a few parties said they had doubts. I think the people would like to hear that discussion. What is needed in that law to ensure that we have the level of information from our security services right? I sometimes hear the term "drag law." I do not want an entire neighborhood to be dragged away, but if we send our soldiers to a country like Mali or Afghanistan, we must first see if the region in question is safe. I'm not sending a man or a woman that way if I'm not sure that that's where we're going because that's what's happening today, Somali pirates are doing everything through the app, too. We have also taken seven months for this guarantee debate to lead us to hope that the whole of the Netherlands will say: this way the Netherlands is not naive, our security services have been properly equipped and a number of former judges will see to it that it is done properly. That's how we deal with it in our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u293	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u294	That's a lot of words. I am trying to get out what Mr Pechtold is trying to say. Is he actually saying that he is convinced of the bill as it stands and that he will explain to the voters in the near future exactly what that looks like? He's talking about childhood diseases that need to be removed. However, the law has not yet been put into effect, so how are we going to get these childhood diseases out? How are we gonna meet them? I have a very specific question. An advisory referendum is ultimately about a council given to Parliament. We politicians have a responsibility to weigh that council. How do we deal with that? What does that mean? I am asking about the space Mr Pechtold sees for changes to the law. I can imagine that Mr Pechtold's objections are still the same as the ones that GroenLinks has. As two parties in Parliament, we were not opposed to this law at all. In fact, we felt that there should be a renewal. However, there were some criticisms. I think that's what the initiators were up to. My question to Mr Pechtold is whether this referendum might provide him with a means of ensuring that there is a better law, which can count on broad support. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u295	I believe that before people go to the ballot box, the cabinet should clarify what law we are talking about. For example, that period is very clear. I would like a letter from the ministers, in which they explain how they are going to work out in practice the current law and the ideas that have been discussed in the coalition. Not until that's complete, I know what I'm talking about. It's like pizza. Everyone here likes pizza, only Mr. Klaver and I don't like pizza. Others say it will be a delicious pizza, but we say: let's see that pizza first. That is also the case with this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u296	Mr. Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u297	I want to understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u298	First of all, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u299	I want to know what Mr Pechtold means. Is he saying there's gonna be a letter explaining how the law is being implemented? Is that what this is about? So it's not about amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u300	No, it's about the application of the law. It is therefore, among other things, about the timing of the evaluation. That will be taken up by the two ministers who have written a letter today on the deadline for implementation. I'll wait in peace. Then we're gonna do the substantive campaign. One step at a time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u301	I would like to move on to the referendum. In a good referendum, as a politician, you try to convince people with arguments to vote for or against. It is the party of Mr Pechtold that I saw it as one of the few in campaigning for the Ukraine referendum. This referendum gives the people at home the opportunity to give a decisive or at least advisory opinion on major issues for them, which are often not even included in election programmes. When I hear Mr Pechtold right now, it seems that it is more important to permeate Europe than to give people a corrective vote on matters such as, for example, the transfer of more powers to Brussels. If you're so convinced it's gonna happen, convince people why it's okay to do it. Then you'll find out if anyone's campaigning on the other side. What you are saying is that we must not hold a referendum on Europe, because we must persevere and we do not have the courage to discuss, for example, the transfer of sovereignty with the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u302	I believe that I had just made clear with Mrs Thieme where her party and my party stand. Now Mr Roemer pretends that I changed my position here after the elections. No! I would point out that before the elections to my party, to other parties, to GroenLinks, Mr Klaver said that a democratic debate had just been held on behalf of Mr Klaver. The majority of Members have said that we want this amendment to the electoral programme. In doing so, I looked up the electorate, and everyone who voted for D66 knew that, and I have done so now. What's the reproach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u303	The reproach is that you are constantly trying, as D66, to paint the picture outwards as if D66 were a real democratic party that wants to include people in important decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u304	Mr Roemer, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u305	And then D66 says to the most essential thing that comes up here: transfer of sovereignty to Europe: we do not want to question people, we do not want to discuss it, we do not want a referendum on that. If you receive an assignment from your congress, I understand very well that you are carrying it out here. That's not the point. But I address you here as party leader of D66. I had hoped that you would have convinced your party that on an important theme such as European integration, you should take the people with you and not alienate you further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u306	Let's take a look at the contents and the process. D66 is a very pro-European party, but that does not mean that we like everything that comes from Europe or everything that happens in Europe. Let's talk about democracy. When we talk about party democracy, the SP and D66 might be able to arm themselves on how it is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u307	We are the most democratic party in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u308	I read something else once in a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u309	That's different. The members have with us... Well, I'm not gonna defend myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u310	No, me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u311	I am not afraid to put something in front of the voter when it comes to a major change. I am not afraid of campaigning when it comes to transferring sovereignty to Brussels. I am not afraid to let the voters make a correct ruling when it comes to major system changes and to stick to them. I think democracy belongs here in this house. It would have decorated you if you had convinced your own party of that. Unfortunately, you didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u312	My party's had an internal trial. Mr Roemer, and let us find each other again after this exchange of views, began by congratulating D66 on the fact that we were campaigning in referenda, unlike others. The voters know exactly what we stand for, with the D66 electoral programme and the campaigns we conduct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u313	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u314	Finally, Mr President. I hope that Mr Pechtold will at least have the courage, within his own party, to propose such great changes from Europe, which affects everyone in society, when it comes to control, when it comes to sovereignty, or when it comes to presenting them to the people. To do that with us. There is one thing we know for sure: if we move forward with European integration, we will do so with the support of the people and not over the heads of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u315	Mr Roemer and I are colleagues. I have to stick to the D66 election program. For the next three and a half, four years, I'm not gonna let that go. I am not going, because Mr Roemer is asking me to, against an appointment with my own members and with that in my own constituents. No, because that would be against my election program. So no. But in the European elections or in other elections we may or may not vote for us on subjects. In 2019 or 2020 there will be European elections and then the candidates for the European Parliament and I will be ready to defend their seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u316	Mr Asscher, you have just spoken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u317	I should like to comment on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u318	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u319	Very briefly. We have seen that because of this secret agreement about the abortion pill women in the Netherlands are less in control of themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u320	Mr President, I take this as a real offense. I have just explained very carefully how a misunderstanding that occurred to us a few weeks ago in the preparation of this debate was, in my opinion, the subject of our coalition consultation last Monday. We discussed the list that had to go to the Chamber and then said, "Hey, wasn't that Asscher's question?'. I can be transparent about this, and I will put it this way, otherwise the Prime Minister will have done it tomorrow. It is a sensitive subject, and I have explained very clearly what has happened, and nothing strange has happened, and I find it annoying if you, Mr Asscher, put forward the suggestion that something would have happened behind the scenes here, because that is absolutely not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u321	A month ago, the Reformatorisch Dagblad reported on that appointment. It was then denied. Turns out he's here. It's not written down in the coalition agreement. So you can call that a secret appointment about the abortion pill. My point was that this restricts the freedom of women in the Netherlands to make that choice. Women's right to self-determination is also under pressure worldwide, in particular by the Trump administration. Can I now see an ally in Mr Pechtold, if we together call on the cabinet to continue fully with the SheDecides initiative, with which the Netherlands helps to protect women in these rights worldwide?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u322	I think that's literally in the coalition agreement. Then you should read better. Pick me up where I make mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u323	I've been doing that all along, Mr. Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u324	Grid me when it doesn't add up...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u325	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u326	... but again, you have contraceptives that you can use, you have the morning-after pill you can use and you have the abortion pill. The abortion pill is available from abortion clinics everywhere in Netherlands. The question was: do the doctors get them too? That is not an ethical issue, but a point of contact, if I may put it bluntly. The previous cabinet said that we are going to make a law for that. My group has already objected to this kind of red tape. So it is not a secret agreement, it is a statement by four parties during the negotiations that we did not want this to happen in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u327	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u328	Yeah, but it was necessary. And as for SheDecides, I'd also like to talk about the warm hand, excuse me, the outstretched hand. The warm hand is about another discussion. Mr President, there is a laugh in the Chamber, but at least it is not a sticky hand. The hand, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u329	A warm heart and an outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u330	Mr President, I would like to give you a brief insight into how that is going, when you are negotiating to form a cabinet that has difficult things to do. We have had discussions about the rainbow voting agreement, about Sunday rest, about many things where liberal and Christian parties were opposed. On one of those parts, when we talked about the project of former Minister Ploumen, we had the feeling quite quickly: that was successful, and in Trump's era we should also make sure that there is continuity in it. We have also said that it was a success and why should we think differently now? Last time I was told that I would ask for compliments, but this was actually a compliment, Mr Asscher, for your former Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u331	Mr Asscher, one final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u332	It wasn't just a window issue. Why was it supposed to take that pill to the GP? Because it is less burdensome for women to go to their family doctor, and because aftercare can be better arranged there. It is a very sensitive issue, and you can judge it differently, but if you make an appointment about it, you write it down, because then there can be a debate about it. That didn't happen. Second. I have here the cheap version that Mrs Buitenweg gave me, but I do not see that SheDecides fund in it. But I understand Mr Pechtold very well. He is willing to make sure with me that at least it is in the most expensive, newest version neatly, so that we know that that fund will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u333	Mr President, I welcome the cooperation in the cheap variants, but on this point I think the mistrust is really wrong. I think Mrs Dijkstra was the one who dealt with the abortion pill on behalf of my group, but even then we were critical of this law. And if four parties are critical and say they don't want this, I don't think this is a secret appointment, but I think it's a result of you agreeing with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u334	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u335	Mr. Chairman. It will not have escaped you that my somewhat boring shoes were missing on the platform. With conviction, I choose to put my steppers under the Chambers for a little longer. My first and foremost political love, as you have just noticed, is the debate, the struggle for words, the organized disagreement in this house. And that's where I'm at. The same applies to colleagues Segers and Buma. Together we are now the three Musketeers of the coalition. And yes, Mr Dijkhoff, you may play d'Artagnan, our fourth Musketeer. Congratulations on your appointment. Mr. Chairman. My group has confidence in this coalition, but we are not on the threshold. To steal a phrase from Abraham Lincoln, whom he used for his ministerial team: We are a team of rivals. Rivalry is not my motive, of course. That is to safeguard the credibility of our parliamentary democracy. The ideological differences within this cabinet remain visible in the Chamber, because, Mr President, you have to think this way: whoever hangs out dirty laundry keeps it fresh inside. Mr. Chairman. D66 certainly didn't manage everything. Some measures met with incomprehension in advance. Was I cheerful about the image that sometimes arose around the Wilhelmus? Mwah. Would I have expected that the opposition's biggest objection would lie with VAT? No. But I also stand for those points. In the context of our complex history, we should know a little bit more about the rebellion song from the Eighty Years' War. It is not surprising that we are making a choice for a shift from labour to consumption. That is fair and green. Mr. Chairman. I am therefore in favour of this agreement and I am even proud of it. But people will wonder what will happen over the next four years and what will happen next year. I understand that not everything that the coalition has devised can become reality at once, but we must now take irreversible steps. At the next General Political Reviews I would therefore like to know...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u336	I'd like you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u337	Well, I want to know a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u338	I would suggest that you finish this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u339	I would like to know at the next General Political Reviews how many schools have actually reduced the workload for teachers. When will the first coal power station be shut down? How exactly is the Netherlands in the wheel of Merkel and Macron? Is there a social agreement to make a permanent job more accessible again? Does the defence personnel have more confidence in their own organization? Is cyber security a real priority now? How's the first experiment with safe pot growing going? And what progress are we making with nature conservation? Because there were some critics and I see money there but no plans yet. Mr. Chairman. There is so much ambition that my question to the Prime Minister today would be: how does the cabinet bring the government agreement from paper to practice? When will the concrete proposals be presented?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u340	Yes, Mr President, it was actually very interesting to hear what Mr Pechtold wanted to know. Among other things, he asked when the first coal power station would be shut down. Well, we can already read in the coalition agreement that that's not gonna happen before 2023. Because the new energy agreement, which will not be revised until 2023, will set a timetable for the coal-fired power stations themselves when they think they will be able to stop their power stations. That's my question right away. Secondly, I will also zoom in on sustainability. My question is how Mr Pechtold can sign a government agreement whereby the measures will all take place only after this government period, in the hope that the coal power stations will shut themselves down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u341	That's bullshit. It is not at all true that everything is after this reign. There is already money in sustainability, in ensuring that the livestock in a warm way, in a way that farmers also feel that they are not bullied but can cooperate... We just had a little debate on that. That's all gonna start in this cabinet period. We continue with wind at sea. We also continue with the technology to invent and improve other things for storage and other things. And as far as coal power stations are concerned, the final target is when the last one closes. Why don't you write when you close the first one? If you write that down now, I know what the price will be. You know all that. I say to the Minister: go negotiate with those coal farmers and close them as soon as possible at the lowest price. The money that is left can be used for other renewable energies and to prevent CO emissions. So, Mrs Thieme, you'll get what you want. I was also sorry about the positive press release from the PBL. I was reading that again and I thought, "Everyone's so negative about that, but what does it say?" We're gonna get Paris, and the Cabinet has the money to get there all the way. We already have some plans on the French-Belgian border and the last part we are going to fill in with the rest of society, municipalities, provinces, companies and everyone. Well, such a journey to get into the city of light and then clean light: what an ambition!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u342	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u343	I'd almost say, "Shall we go together?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u344	Hey, nice. We'll do that later, but first something else. There is a great deal that Mr Pechtold does not know yet. That's obvious. The Plan Office for the Environment indicates that most of the measures will only be taken after 2020, that it is not at all so sure that in this cabinet period there will be environmental taxes, that it will all be postponed in the long term, and that not even half of the 2030 targets will be met with the cabinet proposals contained in the government agreement. There is therefore no need for confidence in the future. That brings me to the reason why I am here on the microphone, namely that Mr Pechtold also dares to claim that consumption is taxed and thereby greened. There will be a general increase in VAT. Mr Pechtold has argued with me in recent years for a meat tax. He was convinced that this was the way to green up. The Planning Office for the Environment has also advised the government to introduce them. Why didn't he bring this in to the formation? He had the Christian Union with him, for God's sake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u345	Because this was in our election program twice ago. At that time, those same headstrong Members said, after having had a big discussion about it: we do not want that anymore. Last time I mentioned the example of pizza quatro stagioni. How do you judge it? There is also some meat on it, but otherwise it is not meat. What percentage is it covered by? Members of this House said the other day, and I think it was in 2012, that we no longer want a separate increase in the levy on meat. However, progressive parties like yours and mine always say: you have to consume less and you have to tax it, in whatever form, and you have to give space in the burdens, so that people have more money to cope with that shift of burdens. And in this cabinet, they even have money left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u346	I do not think Mr Pechtold is capable of thinking that way at all. If you look, for example, at the sugar tax that we had not so long ago, sugar in various quantities was also found in all kinds of products. That just worked out fine. You were able to calculate the tax for that in a very good way. It's bullshit to come up with that right now. But what I think is much more important is that the current rulers, both Mr Koolmees and Mrs Van Veldhoven, wrote a tax greening report a few years ago in which a meat tax was clearly chosen. I will give that to Mr Pechtold later. Maybe he can take that on his way to Paris. And then we'll probably come back together with a proposal for a meat tax. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u347	My party is not in favour of a meat tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u348	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u349	Not in the last election program. For you too, Mrs Thieme: that is member democracy. In 50 years it may be that you have an idea of which after a few years, convinced by arguments, you say: no, we don't; we do it in a different way. Your goal is the same as mine, Mrs Thieme, which is to make sure that we are consciously dealing with meat and fish and that keeping animals happens carefully. And that's what's interesting when you seem to be far apart. The images of how the CDA is in there and how D66 might be in there are regularly stereotypes. In an election campaign, that's what you do. But take the discussion we had about how you deal with those pigs in Brabant. Then you get to hear the stories of those farmers, who have really almost reached the minimum of existence and who have to do more and more. And you can also see the animal diseases and the diseases of people in between. Those are the fiercely interesting discussions, where you say: we are going to help each other to ensure that it can be responsible and even better for the climate. That's the thread in my story: working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u350	Mrs Thieme, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u351	There wasn't much of that red wire. Mr. Pechtold brings in all sorts of things. I would like to comment on the fact that Mr Pechtold here claims that a greening project has been launched by taxing consumption. I would like to know from Mr Pechtold what consumer issues this cabinet is using in relation to greening. What are you talking about? Because fruit and vegetables become as much more expensive as meat and dairy. That's not greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u352	But it's consuming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u353	No, you're saying you want less consumption and it's getting greener.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u354	Bewuster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u355	You can't do that with a general VAT increase. The PBL and others say the same thing. I really think that Mr Pechtold should take a good look at whether his claims of greening are correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u356	Very briefly, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u357	I get it. And Mrs Thieme is perhaps the most extreme in that. But together with Mr Klaver we have increased the VAT. He sat with me at the table in 2012. At that time, Klaver also agreed to increase VAT, because that is good for reducing consumption, for more consciously handling things. Then GroenLinks, D66 and ChristenUnion together with CDA and VVD increased VAT. Is that what we're doing to bully? No, we're not doing it to bully. At that time, we needed the money, too. Now we're going to give that money back by cutting charges. What if you buy an apple loose? It might cost €0.50 now. You'd better get them per kilo, and even better at the grower just across the rivers, in the Betuwe. That apple's gonna cost a penny and a half more. But, yeah, you also have a lot more money in your wallet to pay for that. That's shifting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u358	No, Mrs Thieme, you can't interrupt anymore. The interruptions are too long, but so are the answers, Mr Pechtold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u359	It's such an interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u360	Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u361	I have a short question on another subject: green education. I know D66 as an education party. I'm sure you've had a keen eye for it, too. The coalition agreement states that "Green education is financed in the same way as regular education." But we hear that is not sufficiently translated into the books. Does Mr Pechtold recognise these signals, and is he prepared to do something about them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u362	I think that is a fair question. I forgot about him myself, but I actually want to put that question to the cabinet with Mr Van der Staaij. Together, we know that education was once partly housed at what used to be the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Agriculture, and the latter is now a separate ministry. We have made the very thought-out decision to place the education at a ministry of education. We've managed that transition to some extent. I believe it's worth 10 million. But I'm getting signals along the lines: is that right, and is that enough? With you, I'd like to ask the Cabinet: can you show us? I do not know whether this will be possible tomorrow, but otherwise we will be able to deal with the budget. I think we're in agreement. It cannot be that our political will to bring it into one hand will immediately lead to chunks somewhere in that green education. That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u363	Excellent. Then we'd like to hear the answer from the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u364	Look, that's the way it can be. Short interruptions, short answers. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u365	I have a question about two things. They all have to do with greening. The first question is about nature. I am very pleased that money is being allocated to nature in this coalition agreement. I do have some questions about how to implement them. One is about the budget that stands for nature. Mr Pechtold referred to the fact that there is still little scope for this. I hope that Mr Pechtold agrees with me that this money should also be used for national projects, for example the Markerwadden. A second question on this same point concerns the Province Fund. There's a lot of money going to the Province Fund and the Municipal Fund. How does Mr Pechtold think we are going to ensure that the money that goes to the Province Fund will also be spent on nature management?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u366	I think this is a fair question. Out of my mind, in three steps of occasional money, it's about 200 million. There's actually no plan for it yet. This is also in the knowledge that the provinces are now at the forefront when it comes to the task of nature management. If the provinces show ambition (read: making money for themselves) this money is meant to make sure that more is going to happen together than if only it would be done. As far as I am concerned, any sensible idea that can be put forward is welcome. At my place in Wageningen, they're working on the inner court now. This is done by private individuals and sometimes the government or the province does it. I would like to achieve as much as possible for that money. You mentioned the Markerwadden. I don't know them yet, but maybe someone can answer them first thing tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u367	I want to taste here at D66 and I'm curious about the answers of the cabinet. I hope that this money will take the nice steps towards those national projects and that the money that goes to the provinces will also be used for nature management. Another question is about the climate. Mr Pechtold started very firmly with "the facts of the coalition agreement." Now he just quoted a press release from the PBL about which he says he doesn't understand that people are pessimistic about this, because it's really good. The PBL indicates that 11 megatons are certain and that 26 megatons are passed through this cabinet to the maximum. That's a range of 20% to 50% of the ambition. You can't be satisfied with that as a D66er, can you? You can't say that it's really nice that it's there now, can you? It shows that there are still very large steps to be taken and that the cabinet is currently getting an insufficient one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u368	In my opinion, the PBL is now particularly dissatisfied with the explanation of that fantastic press release. The PBL simply writes here: "The cabinet formulates goals to achieve Paris." They indicate that they will achieve the goal if they do what they have now completed for themselves and complement the rest with energy agreements and administrative agreements. The numbers they put down are enough to get 2 and move towards 1.5, "49 55" for the lovers. They say, "That's right, that'll make it." Half of it has already been filled in and the rest has to come out of the administrative agreements. They also say that the reduction estimate for emission targets is adjusted downwards. So you see again that it's a moving goal that you're dealing with. This is a windfall, just as we thought in the previous cabinet period that billions were lost from wind energy and we are now in the millions. I welcome this press release. Now to the minister, right here on the corner, the task of carrying it out. I'm still sorry you're not sitting there. You could've gone a little further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u369	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u370	I see that Mr Wiebes feels very differently, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u371	He would have done the taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u372	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u373	As an example, I look at the share of renewable energy and what the PBL has shown about it. There will be less renewable energy in the Netherlands at the end of the cabinet period than if the new cabinet did nothing. I can't imagine D66 being satisfied with that. This is because the storage of CO is paid for under the renewable energy subsidy scheme. Is Mr Pechtold prepared with me to ensure that we get the storage of CO out of that subsidy scheme, so that we ensure that the share of renewable energy in the Netherlands is increased? I also asked Mr Buma this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u374	Let me tell you quite frankly: I thought Mr Buma was saying a little too quickly that perhaps we should do so. Let me quote the same PBL: 'By placing CCS projects in the SDE, this subsidy scheme, you will see competition in that world which lowers the price'. In fact, the PBL says to us: by placing (part of) that CCS in it, the cabinet and taxpayers will have the chance to achieve more reduction per euro of subsidy money. Well, when I read that, I thought: don't say too soon that we don't do that anymore; press that price. It's the same as those windmills: we thought "billions" and they became "millions."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u375	Mr President, this is an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u376	Sure, everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u377	I am not quoting press releases here, I quote reports here, namely page 14 of the report that this press release is about. That is where you see the calculation very clearly. When you finance CCS from the renewable energy subsidy scheme, this has a direct effect on the number of windmills that can be built. The PBL makes it very clear that at the end of the next cabinet period, the share is not about 25% sustainable, as would be the case with unchanged policies, but around 20%. I really can't imagine D66 being satisfied with this. Mr. Pechtold began with: the facts, the facts, the facts. Then come up with the facts, Mr. Pechtold, and try not to twist them to make it more beautiful than it is. I would like to work with you to ensure that we achieve the objectives and that there is more renewable energy, but do not pretend that is the case with the plans that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u378	Then let us take the fact and that is the literal quote of the PBL: "The cabinet broadens the scope of the SDE+ scheme. As a result, in addition to renewable energy projects, CCS projects, for example, are eligible for funding. This increases competition within the SDE+ scheme and can achieve greater emission reduction with the same budget." Well, that's exactly what I was working on right away. I thought, "That's good." On the question "Am I satisfied?', I say, no, I'm never satisfied. I will only be satisfied if this Minister is really going to achieve results there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u379	I'm sorry, Mrs Thieme, but I still want to introduce... Mr Pechtold has been standing here for almost an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u380	Is it that late again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u381	Yes. I do not think that is the problem either, but the interruptions are too long and the answers are even longer, especially yours, Mr Pechtold. Yeah, really! So I would suggest that we be brief. You will have the opportunity to interrupt, Mrs Thieme, and I suggest that Mr Pechtold just finish his speech, because there are seven more speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u382	Fine, Mr. Chairman. All right, all right, all right, Mr Pechtold just mentioned the EUR 200 million clean-up for pig farmers in Brabant. A good thing that happens! 200 million taxpayers' money is quite a lot to get the pig farmers out of vulnerable areas in Brabant. Did I just hear Mr Pechtold say that there is a logical consequence of this that it cannot be that those pig farmers or other pig farmers who can get production rights to start a pig farm elsewhere in the Netherlands? After all, you just move the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u383	It is not intended to throw an industry where there are problems now, for farmers themselves and for residents, from one problem to another. The provinces, Brabant first, have already clearly indicated their desire to take steps in this respect. This cabinet is making 200 million dollars in a responsible way that, I would say, triples. The cabinet is going to help the farmer to earn his living with less or perhaps with another type of farm, to reduce the nuisance of the residents and to ensure society that animal suffering and animal diseases will improve in the future. I think that's a win-win situation, where I like to... You call it public money, while we call it subsidies in the case of other climate-related matters. I think that is more than justified, because it is a common goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u384	We agree on that. It is only important to note that Mr Pechtold also believes that it cannot be that we spend 200 million, that production rights continue to exist and that we can start another polluting business elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u385	I believe that Mr Dijkhoff has just answered a question: here I fit in with detail. I think it's part of the county, but... I hope the cabinet will be able to tell me exactly that tomorrow, but it seems to me that we are not taking 200 million for a relocation of a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u386	No, I'm fine. But really, it's very often about details in this debate. It is about the details of everything and some medical-ethical issues and so on, but if this cabinet says it wants to become the greenest cabinet, then the group chairmen must also be well aware of the situation in the Netherlands, which is about the most polluting sector, namely agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u387	I am glad that Mrs Thieme is also pleased that the cabinet is doing this, but I have not heard that part yet. Mr President, my question was: when are the concrete proposals coming? In the upcoming budget negotiations, my group looks forward to getting clear priorities for each member of the government, so that we can follow exactly how our ambitions are translated into actions. I am asking for a commitment here, but it must be possible with these leaders. My party had someone in mind for every wallet, but now I see someone I trust in every post. Mr President, what can the cabinet then expect from my group? Support where possible, constructive criticism where necessary. That's what's up against my greater expectation of this cabinet. The cabinet needs a progressive perspective. That is an attitude that allows us to think openly ahead, a mentality that allows us to respond to what is happening in the world around us. The fact that the world will not stand still for the next four years is perhaps the only prediction we dare to share in this Chamber. What do we expect from the opposition over the next four years? I hope to be factually critical and solution-oriented. D66 has invited many parties for cooperation and we will continue to do so. As far as I'm concerned, this is not a 76-74 coalition. Of course, we are dealing with witness parties that never participate, but in the fight against disposable politics, all the parties are invited as far as I am concerned. Everyone in this Chamber must be able to contribute as well as possible and therefore I ask all parties, right or left, progressive or conservative, Christian or secular: join in, join in and build! Finally, Mr President. The coalition agreement is thorough and detailed, and that is a sober political reality. But now it stands, with broad ambition for four years of hard work. This agreement shows the political will of the centre. European history teaches us that, where extremes stand against each other and the political middle is divided, democracy itself is under pressure. It is therefore a huge gain for me as a democrat that this agreement has been reached. Now get to work!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u388	Thank you. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u389	This is perhaps the most important debate of the year. There's been a long negotiation. I would like to ask a number of questions about the coalition agreement. I want to ask a question about migration. It was agreed in the coalition agreement that drownings should now be brought to the nearest safe haven in accordance with the existing international legal frameworks, even if that is on the side from which they left. The non-refoulement principle is a guiding principle, so the principle is that someone is not sent back to a country where he is at risk. How is this going to be shaped?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u390	In the drafting of the treaties with countries where this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u391	I have also put the question to Mr Buma, who clearly states that it is his ambition that people should not come to Europe first, but that they should be brought directly to those countries. How are we going to determine on those boats whether someone is not in danger and whether someone is not being persecuted or at risk in the country where they are being dragged because of their sexual preference or political views? Everyone has an international right to an individual test. Where's it gonna take place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u392	I think we should be happy in the first place if we can establish it on those boats, because sitting on that boat is already dangerous. You just said you're dragging back. No, we're starting to save. The fact is that most boats have enough fuel to get out of territorial waters and not anymore. That is the disaster that we all see now. The future will bring with it clear European policy means that people will no longer fall into the hands of those criminals, as I dare call them now taking advantage of difficult situations or the legitimate desire to build a better life. They take advantage of that. That's what's drowning people. So we want to make sure that in the future these boats are not actually going to sail at all, because it is clear that if you report to North Africa in a country that complies with those conventions, with camps that organisations monitor, it is clear whether you are entitled to asylum in Europe or not. That will be the practice in the distant future. In the meantime, learning, as we have seen in the Turkey agreements, that some things do work and some things do not, we will try to make this kind of agreement at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u393	We're really seeing another Pechtold now that he's in the coalition, where he can't ask the sharp questions anymore, but she has to answer. Then we get some pretty woolly answers, to be perfectly honest. My question was rather concrete. It wasn't about what this coalition's broad idea of making agreements with countries and making deals, no, that's pretty well written down. This is about the point that we want to pick people up from the sea and bring them straight back to North Africa. I think I read that well in the coalition agreement. Next, there is a sentence to the effect that the right to non-refoulement is respected. Why do I want to know? For this reason: not both Buma and Pechtold can be right. I would like to know whether Mr Pechtold has not been sent in with a small sentence about non-refoulement, which sounds so beautifully international and wise but is not going to mean anything at all in practice. So again my question: if we pick someone up from the sea and put him on a boat and bring him back to North Africa, how will it be established that this person does not have to fear for his life, for persecution or for his conscience?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u394	I do not know what I have earned the dedain and derogatory attitude of Mr Klaver. He blames me for speaking for a long time and using woolly language for a very serious situation in the Mediterranean. He says I need a long time to answer. Mr. Klaver, this is what we've been talking to you about for weeks. I have heard criticism over three weeks about VAT and so on, but you have not seen and not established that lower-level principle, and it has not failed to do so. To this day, I haven't heard from you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u395	Here Mr Pechtold illustrates the whole point I am making. I am asking a very specific question. That's what it was all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u396	Within all constitutional treaties. Within all treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u397	I ask you a very specific question. This was indeed the subject of the negotiations, and yes, there is a limit in front of us. That's why I'm asking for it very precisely. I am not concerned with the general principle that everything must remain within the Treaties. That's paper, and that's patient. It's about the practice. All those times I've said that. I'm asking you about the practice. I'm not asking you how it's written down. I'm asking, what's it gonna mean? It is the ambition of this cabinet to send people directly back to North Africa. Then I ask you: if people are being fished out of the sea, how do you see that these people do not have to fear persecution, conscience or sexual orientation? How do you determine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u398	Individually. There's no practice of 1850, because that's over. There is no ideal 2030 practice for the climate or 2050 for the rest of the climate. There's no reality around treaties now. Political parties look at how they themselves make reality by transforming their ambitions into compromises and agreements, creating framework conditions. The framework conditions we have talked about are very clear. We want to keep people from drowning. We want to arrange good care in countries where that is justified. We stick to the fact that we do not send back to areas where people are unsafe. That means that when they report to that camp, people will be individually tested: are you fleeing war and violence, from politics, from your orientation, from your faith or whatever, or are you looking for a better life? The latter may be, but unfortunately we can't honor it. For all these other cases, we'll look at them at a time, and we'll make agreements on that. Mr. Klaver, reality is formed by taking responsibility, participating as a political movement, and ensuring that the rules become as you wish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u399	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u400	My question was: how then and where? If I hear it correctly now, Mr Pechtold says: we pick up people from the sea, they are taken to North Africa, and there they get the individual test whether someone is safe or not. Non-refoulement, the principle contained in the Refugee Convention, is that we do not send anyone back without knowing for sure that anyone there is safe. What Mr Pechtold is describing is this: we are sending people back to North Africa. There's the test whether someone's safe or not. If Mr Pechtold is saying that that is not true, it must almost take place on those boats. Then the question is: is the captain going to do that, are there committees set up on those boats? I want to know from Mr Pechtold how.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u401	If you don't want to get it, it's a problem, but this is very clear. The ultimate goal is that people don't sit on that boat anymore, but they're still on it. Only if there is a treaty with a safe country or if there is a safe place under the supervision of international organisations will this happen. That's why we've been talking to you about this for weeks. It only happens when there is a place where there is perspective, where there is shelter and where review can take place. Only then can people be taken care of. Is that reality now? No. Do some cast suspicions as possible with Libya in the near future? Of course not! That can only be done in places where it is justified. This is all to prevent those people from getting on that boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u402	Well, then, I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u403	Mr Pechtold is throwing me here that I do not want to understand. I understand damn well, Mr. Pechtold. We have talked about this for weeks. We have gone into every detail. Why? Because this is about people who are vulnerable and because I believe that the Refugee Convention should not be a dead letter, but a living document. The whole principle of non-refoulement, so that people are not returned to an area where they are at risk, must be maintained. If I ask you where this will be established and you do not know exactly, I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u404	In a safe place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u405	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u406	Mr. Chairman. First of all, congratulations. There you are, all of you. Do you guys still like it? The mean thing is, they don't have to say anything back. Tomorrow it will be. Only Mark Rutte can say something. When the Prime Minister told us this morning that the door of the Trêves room was ajar, everyone still thought: that is interesting. Now half of them think we can still get out? There's gonna be more of these days. It's kind of nice on the other side, can I call you in? "The sun breaking through, a fresh cup of tea." I'm sure many of you recognize this important quote. "Everything can make a person happy," by the well-known Amsterdam folk singer René Froger. When I was younger, I used to be compared to him. I've been confused with the rapper Usher lately, by the way, but that's even more unlikely. René Froger sings there that, while actually all kinds of things are in order, he often simply wants to be happier. It seems the new cabinet has understood René Froger's wisdom. Because what do you read in the introduction to the coalition agreement? "A good country is more than just macroeconomic figures and international rankings." By the way, I can tell you that economic contraction does not make it very happy either. We've been through it over the past few years, and it doesn't make you happy. The cabinet has the ambition to restore confidence in the future. That ambition is justified. We are here today to give a first judgment, to get a first impression of whether the answer that Rutte III formulates is also adequate. How are we doing? There's a lot to be thankful for, to be proud of in this country. There is growth, there are surpluses in the budget, there is consumer confidence, there is producer confidence. But that's not the whole story. Many Dutch people have experienced that basic collateral is under pressure, in the economic crisis, but also now that the crisis is over. Sometimes it's about more abstract certainties that are just as heavy: who we are, how we value and preserve our traditions, and what our place is in the world. Sometimes it is very concrete, practical certainty: our children barely get a fixed contract and fine living becomes priceless for many. The policy of recent years, for which the Labour Party was co-responsible, has contributed to the revival of the economy and the re-emergence of the welfare state. In addition, we have done a great deal to minimise income disparities. But the policy has increased uncertainty on some issues. We can also see that the costs of growth are borne by a very flexible labour market, by alienating the earth and its natural resources, by a very stressed society, by a lot of people, while the benefits are enjoyed by an increasingly small group. Thus, despite our prosperity, despite our beautiful social system and despite our good care, the Netherlands has become a country that is both very happy and fundamentally insecure. It makes sense. We're all looking for solid ground under our feet so we can move forward in life. That's the solid ground we have to offer. We must ensure that protection is there for everyone, that everyone feels secure. Facing tomorrow's day with confidence is only possible if you can rely on certain things. A job with which you dare to plan ahead and where you experience security, an affordable house in a nice neighborhood and good care if you need it. So trust in the future begins with certainty today. As political parties, we play an essential role in this. There is no denying that politics and political parties have been devoured by the general feeling of despondency that many people seem to have mastered. People are wondering whether there is any point in voting. Many are currently planning to avoid the voting booth. There is an unbelief in the possibility that political solutions can be found to the social crisis that is emerging. According to Joop den Uyl in 1981 in his short speech of two and a half hours, against the current. He describes how social relations are at risk of falling apart and how important it is that opposition and coalition politics actually do justice to the need for security of every human being. So that's our assignment. All the more important, as political parties, is to avoid contributing to cynicism about politics. I know a politician who wrote a book against cynicism. I am talking about Mr Buma. He has here in his first statement, I thought "it's bumor," but it has not been taken back, said that a new cabinet should not abide by the law. That feeds cynicism, that's not good. We have just seen that there are agreements on sensitive issues that have not been written down, but have been made. That feeds cynicism, that's not good. I don't want this new cabinet. I believe that they write down and say what they do, but they stand for the rule of law and the agreements that exist. Mr. Chairman. In that introduction I already quoted in agreement, we read beautiful words about security and trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u407	Whatever the cynicism nourishes is when you continue to feed a misunderstanding or factual inaccuracies. My question is, what just happened... You're probably pointing to that story about the abortion pill again. What's not clear about it yet? Because really, ask me, ask the Prime Minister: no appointment has been made. It is the conclusion of four parties that you have seen in the overview; therefore it was not necessary to be in the coalition agreement that was made of its own accord. There's nothing mysterious about that. So Cynism is also fed when you come from the opposition.... we both have to get used to our new role........................................................................................................................................................................................ Otherwise, I'm gonna stand here as long as we don't figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u408	It is right that you should ask. When Pechtold says that it wasn't aware that Rutte denied that at the time, I take it that way from him and also that it only recently came to light. That's not what this is about. However, the choice was made to make that appointment and not to put it in the coalition agreement. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u409	But that's also clear. You don't write... I'd almost say you were there once. We have made the coalition agreement on the things we had to agree on, because one party wants to hold one against three, three against one, two against two, in varying compositions. In this case there was no need for an appointment, because all four said: we do not want this law. In addition, you come up with the list of legislative proposals and you judge them all. We did that very late. It wasn't until Monday that we got that overview and then this law came along. We have written about this openly and clearly: it is not going to happen. But that wasn't a deal. An appointment is necessary if there is a difference between four opinions, but there wasn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u410	Well, Mr. Chairman. I take it from Pechtold now, but I find it difficult to accept it, because D66 and the Labour Party have advocated the inclusion of the abortion pill in the GP package. You can say you don't like the law, but then you change that law. But now the deal is made to delete it. This has already been reported in the reformed newspapers. It was celebrated there. If it sounds like an appointment, looks like an appointment and comes across as an appointment and many parties also stick to it, then it seems like an appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u411	I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u412	I love it all, but if I turn something in, I'll do it with open sights. Then I'll say I didn't do it. Would I have wanted to go further with some parts of embryo cultivation? Yeah, I wish. Did I do that? No. But other things do. I'm very honest about that. In this area, read what Mrs Dijkstra's written and perhaps oral input has been in the past. That's why we're moving him in. It was the opinion of four parties. That's why it's not an appointment, it's just in the overview. Nothing exciting, nothing weird: very clear. Either we agree and then you have to trust me that it is, or we keep the story in the air that something exciting has happened, but I find that very painful for the target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u413	Okay. Fair enough. In the introduction I quoted, we read beautiful words about security and trust. I have said many times that we also see proposals that contribute to this daily security: more paternity leave, tackling bogus self-employment, minimum rates forzzp'ers, extra money for nursing home care. Nevertheless, you also see an ideological choice of the cabinet to the right, with billions of relief for groups that do not need it. This cabinet's biggest investment is not in society, but in reducing the burden on multinationals and shareholders. The Dutch family that benefits most from this cabinet is that of Mrs Heineken, who will soon be able to contribute EUR 26 million by removing the dividend tax. We've asked for it a number of times today. The story's getting weirder and weirder. There's other ways to do it, and we need to do it better. I think there is a wonderful opportunity to make different choices between opposition and coalition: EUR 1.4 billion. In cooperation with GroenLinks and the Socialist Party, we have shown that it can also be changed, through six fundamental proposals that bring with them very different choices and with which we now invest in security in the Netherlands. To eliminate its own risk. Extra pay for police officers, people working for the public case. The teachers meet their demands completely, rather than the first step that has already been fought so hard. We show that the burden should not be reduced for shareholders in exchange for more expensive messages, but that it can be done the other way around. Ask the people who have it very well and make sure this ends up with the large group of Dutch people who need it. Those six proposals also show that you can make a more optimistic, recruiter story for the Netherlands with the starting position this cabinet has received. Better than Rutte III, happier than Rutte III, more attractive than Rutte III. The new generations of Dutch people deserve that national pride and identity is not reduced to a ticking list. We learned the national anthem before Buma, visited the Rijksmuseum before Pechtold and we passed parliament. It's all beautiful. No, I say to Mr Buma, freedom is not the problem. Freedom is the solution. Let's raise our children to truly celebrate that value and freedom. Let the arts bloom, bring music back to class. Teach children that art can also be uncomfortable, think and have intrinsic value. Trusting in the future can only be achieved if we regain our trust in each other. This is created by building that security together. Imagine our country with the strong economy we have now, but also with new self-confidence in schools, in hospitals, in neighborhoods and sports clubs, with proud people who contribute what they can and get what they deserve. People who appreciate themselves. I want to fight for that country in the years to come. From the opposition, with my group, with other parties, proud and passionate. To offer an alternative. Not only against, not against other parties either, but for a Netherlands in which we are sure of our existence again. With GroenLinks, with the SP, with the FNV and the CNV, with Greenpeace, with the striking teachers and with the bicycle delivery companies of Deliveroo. Let us keep an eye on what can be done: a modern country with happy and connected inhabitants, technology at the service of man, a relaxed attitude and diversity in all parts, with an agenda that focuses on the future by choosing the now, for the teacher, for the nurse, for the police officer. The question above this debate is whether this cabinet is going to choose the iron equal of 76 seats in that case: good luck with that and strength with it, it becomes lonely or that hand we do really political clichébingo: the outstretched hand, the warm hand, the clumsy hand, the weak hand. I think we're doing everyone a huge favor by ending that clichébingo at some point and seeing what's going on. Linking left and right, that's what the Prime Minister promised. It didn't work out in the deal. In any case, the outstretched hand does not go to the district nurse, not to the older unemployed, not to the teacher in vo and mbo, not to the tenants, who get a cut, not to policemen, not to the disabled, who have to work below the minimum wage, not to people with benefits, not to the elderly with only an AOW and not to flex workers who need more protection than is offered here. The outstretched hand still goes to the Chinese, American and Russian investors. A well-stocked, rich-filled hand. Beautiful gifts. Imagine what you can do with that, what those billions can mean for the people in the Netherlands. Still, it's still possible. That is why I would like to table a motion here to see whether there will be cooperation or not. I realize that it is unusual, so I ask, on the basis of Rule 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, for leave to do so in the first term, including on behalf of colleagues Roemer, Klaver, Krol, Thieme, Kuzu, Baudet and Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u414	Then the Chamber must agree to that. You have a lot of names, but it's not a majority yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u415	I get it. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u416	The question is whether Mr Asscher could table a motion in the first term. That can only be done if a majority is in favour of it. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u417	I would first like to ask whether Mr Asscher is not present tomorrow, at the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u418	The last time this happened in the debate on the declaration of government, it was the group chairman of the VVD who did so in the first term. He had good reasons. I would also like to explain it if you would allow me to table that motion. The Zijlstra motion was that then. You know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u419	Yeah, no doubt. I know him. Maybe you think that's a way to become a minister again. Mr Zijlstra has also succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u420	I didn't think of it like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u421	I'd like to hear that before I decide if it's a good idea. I would have thought that the answer from the cabinet could play a role in the question of whether there will be a motion, what it looks like and whether we, as coalition parties, might see something in it. Honestly, I expected that order. Knowing Mr Asscher, he has a good reason why he wants to do it now. But I'd like to hear it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u422	Sure. Quite clearly: I am very curious how the new coalition will deal with the procedural request for a motion first. What do I want to do? In the debate on the coalition agreement, I asked for the cuts in district nurses to be removed. That's urgent. That's a huge life. Tens of thousands of signatures have been collected from community nursing. It also causes great concern in patients, in the elderly. Then we wrote to the cabinet at its inaugural discussion, the founding meeting, which threatens to go wrong here, that you should not wish yourself such a start as a cabinet and that it will be a false start. You come to an explanation of something that is completely inexplicable: in times of surpluses, people who do that work are being cut back. Scratch that. In order to prevent the outstretched hands from waving and that the cabinet will not be able to respond to what I would like to propose in the first place tomorrow, I would like to table the motion. I say immediately: if Mr Dijkhoff wishes to sign with it, or if he has any suggestions for changes, then I am very open to it. However, I think it is important to table the motion on this point in the debate, because the question is above the debate: is it going to be 76-74, or is it going to be more? That is why I ask for leave to the majority of the Chamber to table the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u423	It is, as indicated earlier, very unusual to do so in the first term. We have discussed it on a number of occasions with motions of censure. Frankly, I do not find the explanation very enlightening either. The point made by Mr Asscher is clear. The normal course of events is then that the reaction of the cabinet is awaited first and that a motion may be tabled in the second term if the reaction of the cabinet is found unsatisfactory. I think it is a very complicated figure that we are going to table motions during our speech, without a word from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u424	It's kind of a procedural meeting now. I do not know if the new Foreign Minister knows what the Zijlstra motion was about, but I do not remember it. Mr Asscher's point, however, about community nursing, is a serious one. He is asking for a serious look at that, but it will be difficult for him to do so in the first period by means of a procedural trick. If Mr Asscher wishes to know how the cabinet reacts to this point, he could put the operative part of the motion as a question to the cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The tabling of a motion without anything being said by the Prime Minister is not in Mr Asscher's favour. It is strange for me to vote in favour of this motion because I would like to hear the Prime Minister first. Apart from the fact that I can support the motion, Mr Asscher's point is justified, but he is adversely affected by the fact that he wishes to table a motion, regardless of what is being said. Ask the question, wait for the answer and then submit a motion or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u425	These are undoubtedly well-intentioned peer and friendly advice, but I have thought about it. I am making a point of this, precisely because otherwise the whole debate will remain in the spirit of waiting. Will the cabinet move? I don't think so. I am not asking Members what they think of the motion and whether they will support it. I am merely asking if I can table the motion because I think it is important to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to comment on the substance of the motion. If I am prevented from submitting the motion, that is also a signal. The Chamber then does so by a limited majority. I think it would be more cooperative to have me table the motion, whether the latter is sensible or not, and I would like to decide for myself what to do after which the Prime Minister will be able to respond. I therefore call on the coalition parties to accept this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u426	This point is indeed coming up, as Mr Asscher has already announced. In my opinion, people working in the neighbourhood are particularly interested in what Mr Asscher wants right now. I hear him saying he's willing to amend the motion if necessary. Would it be an idea for Mr Asscher not to table the motion, but simply to read the text he has before him? Then we can have the debate on the content. We can then see whether we can come together to achieve something in which the content is paramount, rather than talking about procedural aspects here at such a late hour. It is a proposal which I think we can come very far with. If Mr Asscher asks me whether he can table the motion, I think: why should I stop Mr Asscher? But if he says he may want to amend the motion, let us now talk about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u427	I appreciate this, but I'll do it both ways. With the support of Mr Pechtold, there is a majority in favour of tabling the motion now. I'll read the motion. I declare immediately that I am prepared to amend the motion if that strengthens the motion. I'll read the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u428	First, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u429	I've asked and got an explanation. I've been thinking about it for a while, but I still don't get it. However, I see no reason to object to the tabling of the motion. In any case, we know that the motion will be called 'Asscher motion'. I'm curious what's in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u430	Mr President, thank you very much for this cooperative hand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that district nurses provide the largest group of elderly people;]] [[noting that district nurses are doing a fantastic job but having a hard time due to lack of colleagues and lack of time;]] [[believes that all older people should be able to count on good care, both in nursing homes and at home;]] [[considers that reducing the workload of district nurses and the quality of care should be a priority for new basic agreements;]] [[calls on the government to exempt district nurses from cuts in the conclusion of new basic agreements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Roemer, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol, Mr Thieme, Mr Kuzu, Mr Baudet and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u431	I would now like to be able to ask questions about the content. Look, because basic agreements are quite common; in the previous cabinet, the SP Group has them in its electoral programme, even when it comes to care and care. So nothing new about that under the sun. It is intended to ensure that every euro in healthcare is spent as efficiently as possible. It is not intended to do things by way of detour that we are not trying to do through the main agreements, namely to address the quality of care. Next year, some 250 million will be added. So there's an increase in the money going to the neighborhood care. Now you're talking about the neighborhood nurses. Interesting for the cabinet, but also for me towards tomorrow, is whether or not it is intended to say that it should be sought not mainly in the workload, but especially in the more efficient working of these organisations. Roemer was talking about that this afternoon. So you're not talking about the clients or the people who work there, but you're making sure that those organizations might be able to do more for the same money. For my group's consideration, it is very important whether we agree whether that is also the intention of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u432	I understand that question very well. I think it is also a valid point. In itself, it is good to conclude broad-based agreements. I believe that all political parties have also opted for this in the election programmes. It is not surprising that the costs increase and therefore the costs to the care sector. The demand for care increases because more elderly people use it, are dependent on it, and stay home longer, whatever we want. This means that the amount of care that needs to be delivered increases. That is why it is so important that we can continue to find sufficient good district nurses. But the effect of the way that 1.9 billion has been booked by the cabinet is, says the Central Planning Office, because the district nurses are not excluded, a discount of 100 million. What does that mean in practice, very domestic? That those women and men who do that work have less time per patient. In a situation where the workload is already very high, you know that, I know that; the stories about how they're riding around the city to provide care to everyone they deserve, are pretty impressive, it's smashed into like a bomb. Everyone is happy with the 2.1 billion for care in the nursing homes, loving care, but it stands in such a stark contrast to this 100 million. In our electoral programme, we have opted for basic agreements, which I think is necessary, but we have deliberately excluded the provision of care and even increased 300 million. That's not what I'm asking for right now. What I am asking for now is not to deny the cabinet the opportunity to conclude these agreements or to agree on the sensible handling of taxpayers' money, but to make it clear immediately that these district nurses are not going to experience any more workload, that they are not being excluded, that they should not cycle any harder, because they are just burning up and they are getting off. We shouldn't want that, not for them, but not for our elders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u433	I think the risk of this point is that we are going to have a bit of a technical discussion about dampening a task in the context of a broad agreement, of which you really do not know exactly how it is going to work out, and whether or not bureaucracy can be tackled, which is why we say: well, but this is actually a good point. Does Mr Asscher agree with me that the point of substance that lies below is that we do not want this concern to deteriorate, even if there would be another 50 million on top of it? That care must not be distorted and that care must be improved. Does he agree with me that that is the important point of content that we are committed to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u434	Sure, and that's also very domestic and not technical. This concern is so incredibly important for so many people in the Netherlands, for the elderly, but also chronically ill and disabled people who see how incredibly hard work is being done. It is fantastic that bureaucracy is being cut, because it will generate more money for hours for those nurses, but at the same time make it clear to the cabinet that this group must be excluded if they are to conclude these basic agreements. I think Mr Van der Staaij and I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u435	We certainly agree that we have to deal with this very carefully, but that it cannot be that you say that it must be done only with the ggz, the mental health care. It all listens closely. Experience also shows that my final question to Mr Asscher is that it may also mean that you gradually decide that you need to adjust certain assumptions contained in the financial statements. Under your own ministership, Mr Asscher, certain cuts in nursing care that were in the figures were ultimately not achieved because we did not think it was justified. Does Mr Asscher agree with me that, even with regard to what is not already in detail under discussion, we should always look very carefully at how things are going to work out in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u436	I very much agree with that. In fact, I don't think you need a glass ball to realize that more money is needed. You can't say without them. The Central Planning Bureau thinks that's gonna cost $100 million. I think that's what we have to pay for, because the work is important enough for it. So I very much agree with Van der Staaij. I have also learned from the experiences of recent years how careful we have to deal with this, and no matter how important it is from the outset as a Chamber to the Cabinet to give what we expect of them on this point, because the group is too vulnerable and the work is too important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u437	I am trying to clarify exactly what Mr Asscher means. That is important for me to be able to assess whether we agree. I hear him combine two things a lot. On the one hand, I share the concern that a broad agreement should not lead to a lack of care. It is not intended that a nurse should be afraid that he or she should do twice as much for the same money. On the other hand, I also hear Mr Asscher predicting that the intention to reach a broad agreement will lead to this. Is there room in Mr Asscher's motion for a resolution? Or does that motion rule that out, too? It's the whole field that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u438	It's not my prediction that this is happening, but the Central Planning Bureau says so on page 27. "This leads to a loss of care." We do not want that, and I assume that Mr Dijkhoff and the VVD do not want that either. After all, we did that $2 billion together for the nursing homes. It is therefore totally inconsistent and also inappropriate to do so at this time of surpluses, so we must rule that out. I am not opposed to general agreements. I think it would be wise and also good if a new minister could make agreements with the sector so that the money gets to bed, with the people who provide care, and not in bureaucracy, top incomes and management salaries, but where it is needed. So I am not opposed to these basic agreements, but I do think that, given the translation of the Central Planning Bureau, and that is not my own prediction that is essential for the district nurses and their patients that we should at least exempt them from austerity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u439	I don't think we're gonna get the ultimate clarity. The advantage that the motion has now been tabled is, of course, that we can sleep on it for another night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u440	I knew you'd appreciate it if we had this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u441	It took a while, but the appreciation is growing. What I still haven't quite clear is this. If it is clear that a broad agreement will slow down the growth of the costs of community care, but that it will not be in the quality of care but, for example, in the area of bureaucracy, the management structures in between, will there still be room for this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u442	Sure, but let's face it, it's not fat now either. It's already very hard work. Three weeks ago, the newspapers wrote about how many district nurses are overwhelmed or have a burnout. As far as I am concerned, there must be no senseless bureaucracy and the space that is thus created must be sent straight to the district nurse. Do your best and go for it. Anything that can be taken away from unnecessary red tape and what can end up with district nurses, I support, but I do not do so under the threat of a 100 million reduction which will lead to a deterioration of the care which will require them to work even harder at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u443	There are actually two things going on here, namely the real problem of the district nurses and the political point that Mr Asscher makes: if we do this, it is the outstretched hand, and if not, it is not an outstretched hand. But this is more a demand than that the opposition should ask for an outstretched hand, because it seems that we should do so. You were right to say that there should be no distortion of community nursing. I believe that this should be the objective, but that objective applies to all major agreements. It now seems as if you are making a priority here, while hospital care also means a lot of work for a lot of nurses who also work in an environment where costs need to be controlled. So there's not that much difference for me. The others should, too. Then I'd still like to call you to look at the target. I just don't know if it's true that we can't find that 100 million in those basic agreements. We're gonna have to look into that. We also do not know how things are in the other sectors. Isn't it much better and much more a common opportunity to use the word you just used in the neighbourhood nursing profession, namely that when major agreements are concluded, there should be no deviation from the district nurse's offer? If we pronounce that together, the Minister can work with it. Then we will see what comes out of the total of these basic agreements, because I am also afraid of increasing pressure on other sectors. I would like to pass that on to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u444	I'm not making any demands. I'm in no position to make demands. That's not what I'm doing here. I hear and listen to the four coalition group chairmen and the cabinet in the government statement talk in the most beautiful terms about cooperation with the opposition. I would point out, not for the first time, that this is a very important point for the Labour Party and also for eight opposition parties. It's not the only point. You have to see everything in its context, but it's an important point. I think Mr Buma said in his term that we have a point here. Then you can say: yes, there are other concerns in the care. I agree with that. I'd like to start talking about investing less in burden relief for shareholders and more in care. I just didn't get the impression that we already got across that in the little debate we were having with the CDA on that. That is why I say that this is a small amount of money compared to the total plans. It is about a target group that everyone here loves: our elderly, our sick and our disabled. I ask the Chamber to give direction to the cabinet on how it deals with that. Yeah, that's got meaning. I hope you agree, and if you do not agree, I hope you will explain why. I think it is necessary to exclude this group in view of the gravity of the work and the contrast with the investments we are making in nursing homes. I immediately acknowledge in the direction of the SGP that we must learn from the mistakes of the past, including as the Labour Party. It is also my job to learn from the mistakes of the past and I now see very clearly how this affects this group. So I'm gonna call on the Chamber to point in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u445	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u446	I deliberately did that in the first term, because I understand that everyone has to sleep on it and because I also understand that if you need seven months to make a deal, it's useful if there's an extra night to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u447	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u448	Mr. Chairman. A few questions to the cabinet. Is it true that no extra room is being made for the wages of agents and military and teachers only in primary education? Is it also true that the government intends to make top rewards possible again with tax money in the government, so the Law normalizing top incomes 3 to be deposited in the trash? Can we agree to look at wages in the public sector and then start with the teacher, the cop, the military and the nurse and not at the expensive top incomes, people who think they have to earn more than a minister? Is it true that the average care premium will increase by over €300 in the coming years? What does that mean for the family of a teacher, a nurse, a police officer or a soldier? Mr. Chairman. There is a cut of a total of three quarters of a billion in the coalition agreement. Three-quarters billion. To people with disabilities and to people with disabilities. And that in a time of surpluses and abundance. The basic principle is that the social minimum should cease to apply to people who go to work every day, and that no pension should be built up. What is the justification for this measure? Is it what Dijkhoff says, namely that it is necessary for employment? Then it's demonstrably wrong. Or is it meant to be a way of lowering the socially accepted social minimum? That's fair, but it's shameful. Mr. Chairman. What is the story of this cabinet for people who want to stop working earlier? Isn't it true that there's no money for that? I have seen the scope for a social agreement from several group chairmen. Let us agree that no legislation will be submitted as long as the negotiations on such an agreement are ongoing. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the housing market, I have just discussed with Pechtold the version of my coalition agreement to check whether the rental paragraph had been removed. But it turns out there were five bullets on page 31. It says that social housing is going to disappear, while the target group is growing over the next few years. Where's the construction ambition in the coalition agreement? Is it true that the rent allowance is now being cut on balance? How much does that cut-back save tenants a month? Mr. Chairman. The word "teacher shortage" does not appear in the coalition agreement. What is the story for teachers in secondary education, in the MBO? Can we also receive plans from this cabinet as soon as possible to deal with the shortage of teachers? In the opinion, the ESC stressed the importance of learning from each other. The Netherlands has a very fragmented range of facilities for young children. This threatens to increase the division in society. Is it true that investment in early and early school education is not sufficient to provide access to education for all children aged 2 to 4 years? And that the supply remains fragmented, while the Labour Party, as well as D66 and other parties, have long sought to provide a basic offer for all children, because you can also try to avoid the division in society? Mr. Chairman. As far as the climate is concerned, we support the objectives of this cabinet. In fact, I would like to compliment the ambition expressed by those goals. Here too, however, there must be rapid certainty as to how these objectives are being achieved. So I would like to have a discussion with the Minister and with the other parties under the initiative law to put this into practice. We need speed. Mr. Chairman. René Froger did not sing about the dividend tax, even though many investors are quite happy. I'll admit he didn't sing about the neighborhood nursing either. But somewhere in his beautiful song is an assignment. An assignment to fight for everyone's chance of happiness, for the future, for security, for yourself and for your children. A mission to strive for a just, inclusive and free society. And because I'm not sure René Froger is a social democrat, I'm gonna end with another quote. After Den Uyl our early last month Eberhard van der Laan unfortunately escaped, who called us to try the city, but let's assume also the country, from our different roles just a little bit "lover." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u449	I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union. Mr Asscher, you are talking to Mr Rutte, and that is not allowed. Mr Rutte knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u450	Madam President. Let's just say it's a little homesick for box-K.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u451	Yes, Mr. Rutte's fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u452	Madam President. I celebrated 500 years of Reformation last night. I was caught between Mr Buma on the one hand and Mr Van der Staaij's father on the other. In front of me were the King, two Catholic bishops and two rabbis. We've commemorated 500 years of Reformation. I thought it would be a good time to ask this cabinet a Catholic question day after day. What's this cabinet for on Earth? For us as a group, the question is: what makes this political undertaking valuable to the Christian Union Group, even though we do not realize all our ideals with one stone? Let me start with an answer that I will end with: in addition to working on a number of major tasks in this ambitious coalition agreement, this cabinet will also have to be there for a few. Then I'm thinking of the Ghanaian victim of human trafficking I met in Leeuwarden with Fier Friesland's aid workers. And the one family I know that's deep in debt. And to that teenage mom who here, at a round table conversation, did her story and who doesn't know where to go with her help. For them too, the cabinet must be there. But let me start with the beginning of this cabinet. Last week we saw a beautiful bording scene and a promising presentation. It is an almost completely new team of new people with lots of enthusiasm. When I saw them taking the oath or the promise and saw them standing there on the platform, I knew that weeks of solitary confinement in the Stadhouderskamer wasn't all for nothing. But of course this cabinet is not on earth to be a bit beautiful on the stairs of Noordeinde Palace, or to be promising here in Box K. This cabinet is not an end in itself. It is there to do the good and to serve the Dutch, to all Dutch. A coalition can never do that alone. For this, we must seek wider support in society and also here in the Chamber, and then explicitly broader than just the coalition groups. It's been said before, it's been said before, but I love to underline it. Madam President. During the negotiations several advisers visited the negotiating table. One of them was Kim Putters, director of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. His name was mentioned earlier in the contribution of colleague Buma. His contribution has made an impression. Like no other, he feels the pulse of our society and is able to tell the stories of people who would never come to tell their story themselves. It is the story of people who feel abandoned, who feel that politics is not there for them. The story of people who worry about the care, about whether it remains affordable and accessible to them. People who are concerned about whether they or their children can still get a permanent job and an affordable home, whether our country's freedom is safe, and whether their children will not be much worse off than themselves. They are families of men, women and children who have had to pay a big price for the crisis and who are sceptical about promises made by politicians. Madam President. Only a coalition agreement full of plans will not regain these people's trust. The trust between government and citizens, between The Hague and society, can only be restored through actions, concrete actions for ordinary people. In that respect, the Rotterdam influence of this cabinet is a nice one. The sleeves must be poached, the boots must be on and the shovel must be in the ground. Only tangible results will convince. Madam President. The Christian Union Group has stuck its neck in this coalition because we have been able to find ourselves with the groups of VVD, CDA and D66 in concrete plans that contribute to the future of our children, to countering contradictions in society and to defending freedom and security close and far away. We will hold this cabinet to that and assess the implementation of the plans in this regard. So, first of all, we are talking about the future of our children. It is about investment in education, which should lead to better education, lower workload for teachers and scope for them to practice their profession, including in small schools. Mr Pechtold has just asked a number of very specific questions, and I would like to underline them. There's gonna be a lot of extra money for families. There will be more freedom to reconcile education, family life and work. The gap between one and two earners must not widen, precisely because of the freedom for families. And the great thing is that after years of decline, families with one mode of income are about the most advanced of all groups. The coalition agreement commits itself to Paris. It sets clear goals and wants to make the Netherlands the frontrunner in Europe. That ambition is like a house. The options mentioned in the coalition agreement are sufficient to fulfil that ambition, the Planbureau proposes for the Environment. Half of the necessary measures have already been completed. Now it comes to an ambitious climate agreement and a climate law that sets out all the goals and means. My group will continue to encourage the cabinet, because the task is immense. We need everyone: business, farmers, property owners and environmental organisations. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he can indicate how and with whom the cabinet is discussing this agreement and the details of these measures. For this also applies: there is work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u453	I also have a question for Mr Segers about CO storage and how it is financed. Storage is paid out of the subsidy available for renewable energy. The PBL indicates that this has an effect on the amount of renewable energy that the Netherlands will produce in total. Is it possible for Mr Segers and the Christian Union to discuss whether we can come up with an alternative? As a result, all the efforts we make to reduce CO will not be at the expense of the amount of renewable energy we produce with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u454	The Planning Office for the Environment indicates that with the goals we set and the resources we have, there is a certain degree of flexibility and that it may not be that bad. For example, we have seen this with wind at sea, which has become much faster and more profitable than we first thought. It's not that bad. That is the first point. I would add the general clear statement that if we work towards a climate agreement and a climate law, cooperation must be very broad and we must therefore talk about the most efficient and effective use of resources. That conversation must be held very widely and, as far as I am concerned, everything is on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u455	That is a very clear answer, which I welcome. The cabinet has indicated that CO will be the important point on which it will be sent. This will also be the most important in the climate law. In Mr Segers' contribution, I hear that the cabinet will also pay attention to the share of renewable energy. If that's true, I'm very happy and looking forward to talking about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u456	Madam President, a small critical note in the rebound. The response to the message from the Planning Bureau for the Environment. "Half is filled in, the other half isn't" was: shame, shame, because it's all not filled out. While this is just the outstretched hand. Of course, we cannot complete everything until 2030, let alone until 2050 what Mr Klaver was talking about, in detail. We'll have to talk about it. Half of it's already filled out. It is also in the nature of a coalition agreement that not everything has been completed in detail. If there's a hand out there somewhere, it's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u457	I'm glad. I said immediately that I would like to take part in the discussion on the further implementation of these objectives. Mr Segers knows very well how such a transfer of the PBL works. His election programme has also been calculated and has been properly designed with all the measures that fit in with it. If you ask me honestly, I would have preferred the cabinet to have written down all these measures, together with the statement that they can be discussed, but that they will be implemented because you are achieving the objectives. The fact that it is not entirely designed now does not create for me direct confidence. Your attitude here, as well as that of your colleagues, that you are prepared to talk to the opposition about the interpretation, does. I expect a cabinet to be as specific about the climate as the measures that are being sent to the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u458	Now, let's get right to the point. The objectives are perfectly clear. This cabinet has a very ambitious objective: 49%. We want to be front-runner and see if we can still adjust her upstairs. Then we asked the question: who will be responsible for what share? That is also rather concrete. The measures to be taken for this purpose have been partially completed and partly not. That is why we need this agreement, and that is why we need a law. That is the nature of a coalition agreement. Of course, I understand the oppositional tendency to look at the glass that would be half empty. This glass is definitely half full and is going to be full.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u459	We have to be honest. The measures will all be taken only after this government has no more power over the measures to be taken. Most of the measures will only be implemented, if necessary, after 2021. The flight tax is an example. If it is not possible in the coming years to make the aircraft more sustainable or less noisy, the cabinet will consider setting up a flight tax in 2021 when the cabinet is almost ready. You can easily call yourself green. I know that Mr Segers has always had the intention, as I know him, of making the Netherlands more sustainable in recent years. However, we cannot welcome the conclusion of the PBL that not half of the measures will achieve the 49% reduction target by 2030. In the interrupting debate with Mr Klaver, I hear that Mr Segers is open to further developing possible measures to achieve that objective. Can agriculture be dealt with in this context? Or does it have some kind of status separate? At the moment, I can only conclude from the coalition agreement that this sector has it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u460	That ministry has a separate status, but that's because of the minister who lives there. But, of course, agriculture is also involved! Of course, it is also partly responsible for achieving the objectives. Of course, I also understand Mrs Thieme's role when she encourages and drives this cabinet to continue on the path towards further reduction of CO emissions. But also look at where we're from. For a long time, we were left behind and bungled somewhere at the bottom of the states of Europe, and now we want to be the frontrunner. This cabinet with this composition did not make a half-baked choice, but said: we are going full for Paris. All four parties signed up for this. They have all said that this is necessary and we commit ourselves to this. Above all, you must continue to hunt us down, because that is your role. You do that with vervain, but I also hope that you will see that there is a real change and that a straggler wants to become a frontrunner here. I hope, in that sense, that you also count your blessings, especially on this thank you day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u461	Beautiful words about the desire to achieve a trend break. In the coalition agreement, I do not see that trend in relation to the previous governments. I see a great deal of non-committalism in the coalition agreement. It's about covenants. It's about poldering. The direction must remain with agriculture. I therefore ask Mr Segers once again. For example, the government agreement states that the agricultural sector will have to reduce only 3.5 megatons by 2030. That's 20% less than she's producing right now. They have thirteen years to do that and of course that is not very ambitious because, and more and more people know that if you don't eat meat for one day, you also get a saving of 3.5 megatons. So can I appeal to Mr Segers for more ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u462	You may continue to encourage the cabinet to become more ambitious, but I would nevertheless like to point out to you a measure, the minimum price for CO. This leads to the closure of coal plants much faster than we thought. The price is going up, and as a result these plants are no longer profitable and are closing down. That is not something in the distant future, because it is happening much sooner than we think. It is true that there will be a date when all coal plants will be closed, but if we go, as agreed, towards a minimum price for CO of €43, these coal plants will close earlier. That's a mechanism you can already draw out. This is a concrete measure which will bring about a major change. So once again, of course, you may continue to encourage us, but I hope you will also look at where the changes are taking place and where concrete measures are being taken. Think of the Maut, think of the mileage tax for trucks. These are concrete measures that we are going to work on. And so goes the team!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u463	Finally, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u464	Mr Segers has just touched on the subject of coal-fired power stations, but can I understand from this that it is Mr Segers' ambition to close these coal-fired power stations as quickly as possible and that Mr Segers is therefore open to opening up the current energy agreement? Otherwise, we'll have to wait until the end of the term, and that's not until 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u465	You should look at the impact of a minimum price for CO on coal plants. You'll be surprised! Madam President. The Christian Union Group will look in the second place at the extent to which it succeeds in reducing differences in society when assessing this cabinet. The Prime Minister spoke glowing words about it in his declaration of government. I am thinking, for example, of the gap between young people and the elderly. Young people are given the opportunity to work for society through social service. They're gonna get a better chance at work. Care for the elderly is being taken into account. This cabinet invests in the quality of nursing home care and home care. This makes work of the manifesto Sharp on care for the elderly. With the recommendations of the Manifest Ageing, the Cabinet is committed to combating the loneliness of the elderly and a full place of them in our society. My question to the Prime Minister is: how do we ensure that there is no difference between care in nursing homes and care at home? And how do we ensure that there are enough people working in healthcare? Because that seems to me to be a great challenge for the coming period. In the labour market, the gap between flex and fixed work and between worker andzzp'er should be narrowed. My question to the cabinet is whether it intends to cooperate with the polder. How can the cabinet get employers and employees back on the table? For this country has never been better off from strikes or dictations, but it has become better off from consultation and compromise, especially in the polder. I am also thinking of the gap experienced between Randstad and the region. The cabinet is also a cabinet with an eye for bottlenecks in the region and in the Randstad. The government agreement invests in educational offerings in shrinking regions, where schools, even if they are small, have an important role to play. The coalition agreement mentions Rotterdam-Zuid, Zeeland and in particular Groningen. The government agreement has an eye for young farmers who are supported to finance the takeover of a family farm. In assessing this coalition agreement, we will look in the third place at the defence of freedom and security, here in the Netherlands and worldwide. We want more cops on the street, a strong army who can handle his job. That's why the cabinet invests heavily in agents, defence and development cooperation. How vulnerable our freedom is showed yesterday's attack in New York. Freedom is precious and we must always be prepared to pay the price for its defence. But never just to protect ourselves. It is also about freedom and a good future elsewhere. We have received a lot of wealth here and it is good to share it, also by investing in the development of countries and in residents elsewhere. Madam President. Major plans must lead to concrete actions. To that end, this cabinet is on earth. This makes this political effort valuable, and that is why the Christian Union Group has signed this agreement. And yet... All these big plans, some big words and many actions that will follow, we are also talking about the individual, the one who will never be heard here, who will not be able to organize himself. Because of the one that we overlook so easily. We feel an assignment from Proverbs 31. He says: speak for the voiceless and stand up for the right of the defenseless. That is why the Christian Union Group will particularly encourage the cabinet to work on the implementation of that small paragraph in the coalition agreement. For the Christian Union Group, that will be the litmus test for this cabinet: listening to the voice of people who hardly have a voice. I am thinking, for example, of the ambitious paragraph on the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. I am thinking of the thousands of victims of exploitation and coercion, who are in the Netherlands every year. I met the victims. I strongly encourage the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, in addition to the major migration issues in his portfolio, to never forget these people, to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings and to improve assistance to victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u466	Compliments for this ambitious paragraph in the government agreement on the fight against trafficking in human beings and abuses in prostitution. But Mr Segers knows with me that we are still waiting for the law to become an old bill, which has been running for nine years, also a fruit of the efforts of the Christian Union during Balkenende IV. That's still waiting at the Upper House right now. Would it not be an idea, as I suspect Mr Pechtold in the section on weed cultivation, that the cabinet should come up with plans within six months, to include such a term arrangement in this section, because it has been waiting so long?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u467	However, the intentions of the coalition agreement call for an amendment to that law. I think it is a fair question as to how long that could take. Maybe it's a question we should pass on. What is a realistic assessment when that bill could be amended and introduced? We all agree on the aim: to combat trafficking in human beings, to prevent coercion and exploitation. We agree on all the moral questions that we also have about prostitution. The cabinet wants to do something about it. So it seems to me to be a fair question to ask the question of how long it would be possible to do so. Madam President. I'm also thinking about extra money for suicide prevention in those loners. I am thinking of the paragraph on prevention of unintended pregnancy and helping teenage mothers. I remember the round table conversation in which a young mother made her story and talked about the help she had made the difference. That's the difference that this cabinet can make for that few and that loner. I am thinking of families suffering from problematic debts. There is also an ambitious paragraph in the coalition agreement. The cabinet wants to reduce the number of people with problematic debt and help people with debt more effectively. We will always encourage the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, whom I am looking at now, to do something about it. All of these measures are of value to the Christian Union because, in addition to the major challenges, the coalition agreement also wants to improve the situation of these people in order to give voice to voiceless people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u468	I appreciate that last accumulation of examples. We recognize a lot of them. It would be very good for the cabinet to pay a lot of attention to this and if this leads to visible results. I should like to say quite frankly that it is a pity that you have not managed to prevent this from happening to you as much as I do, that a number of children who grew up here in the Netherlands, speak the Dutch language and do not even know the language of the mother country, will actually be exchanged and returned. Those are also vulnerable loners who don't know what to expect. Is there another possibility that you will raise this, if there is to be an outstretched hand, and see if a solution can be found for these loners, these vulnerable children?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u469	If I'd seen a possibility, I'd have grasped that possibility. That didn't work. Where I said that not all ideals have been brought closer, although we have been able to bring some ideals closer, this is a wish that has not been met. If I'd seen the opportunity, I'd have taken it. I didn't see that possibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u470	Very sorry, because the impression was in advance that you would make that an incredibly strong point. Apparently, it didn't work out. On the other hand, you have been wrapped up in gifts for multinationals. The dividend tax itself referred to you or your party as "beneficiary," but I believe it was you yourself "development aid for multinationals." 1.4 billion that nobody in this Chamber has asked for and companies haven't even asked for. In the countries around us, this tax is higher than in the Netherlands. Can we then agree that we are going to delete that and use this 1.4 billion for the most vulnerable in society, which you and I will apparently agree on very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u471	Mr Pechtold spoke, I believe, of the formation process as a somewhat shadowy period, about which you are far from being able to say everything. The Christian Union thought: we can change that. You have been given a glimpse into a number of discussions. You have seen, among other things, that the point you were the first to address, the children's pardon, migration, has been discussed very intensively and that this is one of the subjects that has been discussed at various times. It is true that some openness about this whole formation process can also lead to you supplying the one-liners to the opposition. So you have seen something about the position of the Christian Union. You are talking about abolishing the dividend tax, and you have seen that it does not come out of our electoral programme. But at some point, you sign a deal. First of all, this is a broader story about the locational environment, which is about real jobs. Once again, I say this with the remark I have made that it is not from our electoral programme. There's a broader story to tell about real jobs that we want here and that we want to keep here. There are also jobs we don't want to keep here. Then I think of the letterbox companies on the Zuidas or the Amsterdam canals. Somehow U2 comes up every time; nice music, but I don't mind them being driven out of the canals, at least their office there. So that's part of it. And there is a whole agreement, in which, for example, much more money goes to families. According to that agreement, much more money goes to development cooperation, something that you yourself put your finger on and which you are pleased with. We agreed to greening in that agreement. We've brought a lot of ideals closer. Then the question was, do you sign for the whole thing, yes or no? I said yes, I'm signing for it, including a part that hasn't been my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u472	I can understand why you're trying to redirect it by saying there's a whole package. But I would like to see the debate in the Chamber with your group when there really is a poignant situation of a family with children who live here for six, seven, eight, nine years and then are expelled at once, when they do not speak the language of origin. I'd like to have that discussion. I'm asking you because it's so important to you. On the second point: no party had it in its electoral programme. In this first debate we have heard perhaps 25 times 'provoking the hand', 'trying to get out of it' and 'it must be a broader whole'. It would not be the first time that something like this has happened after a first debate, which nobody had in his election programme, and which, in fact, business does not even say it should: that dividend tax. Then let's take that as a part. Four years ago, the coalition agreement also broke open. Calculate it with your coalition associates. There's no one waiting for $1.4 billion. It is indeed a subsidy, a kind of development aid for large companies. I don't think we're hurting anyone and it's not making the Netherlands any less. It doesn't reduce the locational climate. With this 1.4 billion we can do a lot of things that we stand for together and that many parties stand for. It would be an excellent opportunity to reach out to the opposition. I would say: take that opportunity, have a beer with the four of us tonight and come up with the solution tomorrow: we will delete that intention and talk about spending that money better together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u473	There have been times during that long summer of 2017 that I thought: it must be nice to just read your election program and to be able to say every time on Twitter that you are right and that your program is very good. There have also been a lot of moments when I realized very well that it is incredibly complicated to sit and talk. That is the difference between our groups, that is the difference in the choice we have made. Mr Pechtold underlined it once again: you were expressly invited to come and talk, but you said: no, I am not going to talk. When we got the invitation, we said, "We'll talk." Then we knew: there's gonna be pain, there's gonna be pain in a chord, because there's gonna be elements that are just gonna be difficult. The special thing about this combination is, I think, that in identifying the pain in the different parties, we didn't choose to say: if you want something that I don't want and vice versa, we both don't. No, we have said: we are giving each other the space to work on subjects that I can now proudly put my finger on. The same applies to other parties. They have to have the space for that, too. Is that painless? No. Is that ultimately necessary for the Netherlands? Yes. Is there a story I can say yes to that I can sign? Full-bodied, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u474	Finally, Mr Roemer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u475	Let me get this straight. Yeah, I understand that you can't pull everything. If you're gonna negotiate, it's just giving and taking. That's watering down the wine. For each batch, however, the wine should remain to be drunk. If the differences are smaller, it is easier to make appointments than if the differences are huge. Then there's no drinking that wine anymore. Then it's no more than ditch water. We don't choose to do that. Do we often choose responsibility? Yes, by standing here, I take responsibility as a representative of the people. Then I am not standing on the sidelines, but I am debating with you and making suggestions to make the plans better. That's taking responsibility. A good democracy needs a good cabinet and a good opposition alongside good journalists. Let's smooth that once and for all. Second. If it is said up to 25 times: 'come up with suggestions, we have an outstretched hand, the door of the Trêveszaal is on a crack', then I assume that these suggestions will be taken seriously and not that you will say no if we come up with them. We've made 10 billion suggestions. That you do not take over all of them, I understand, but I think I have already indicated about ten of them from these plans today, and each time the answer is: no, we have made agreements. We certainly could have found each other a long way when it comes to the group that is most vulnerable to you. Then I would have gone along with you and taken the responsibility to say it in your words. Get that chance! Together we can make the Netherlands more human and social by spending the money on it and not on the multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u476	If you open holes in the plans of the magnitude of 5.9 billion cuts for ordinary people, ordinary citizens, for families, then I do not see where I should start in a dialogue. There are other subjects. There's still a social agreement to be reached. Around the labour market there are still open ends, just like around the climate agreement. Much remains to be discussed, and we have said that we are going to engage in this dialogue, with that society, with the Chamber. So there are many possibilities, but you cannot expect me to throw overboard what we have promised to give back to citizens, in a broad sense, after more than three months of negotiation, to have reached a balanced judgment and to have said yes. Moreover, it is absolutely true that every good cabinet deserves a very good opposition. In this respect, I would also like to strengthen you with the role of actually coming up with alternatives and asking us the critical questions, otherwise it will not go well in a democracy. But I have to be aware that if I say no to something that hurts me and then it becomes a definite no, I will also say no to what we are doing against trafficking in human beings, to what we are doing through development cooperation for vulnerable people elsewhere in the world, to people who are suffering from problematic debt and to a very green government agreement with great ambition, by the way, without claiming that the points I mention only come from the Christian Union. Then I'll have to say no to that, too, but I won't say no to that. I say yes to that. So I also say yes to a chord in which there's pain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u477	I get that. I can imagine something if you have said clearly: that hurts me, I did not bring it in, but that is why I stand in for the other thing that I think is very important. But I give you a suggestion for something that nobody in his election programme had, which costs 1.4 billion, which no one here in the room can explain and even VNO-NCW says it should not be abolished. Actually, no one wants it. No one can see the benefits of that, no one can explain it. So what's easier to say: let's discuss the 1.4 billion with those four parties to see if we can't find a better way to do that, together with the opposition, to actually live up to that outstretched hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u478	All the way to the end. This is part of a broader story about the location policy in which a goal is paramount: real jobs for ordinary Dutch people. That's one. Two: we want to get rid of certain jobs. That's on the Zuidas, those are the letterbox companies at the Amsterdam canals. We want to get rid of that. And there's a broader deal. That's the big story. For the rest, I look forward to further dialogue with Mr Roemer, among others. Madam President, I'm closing. This cabinet is on earth to work for a good future for our children, to reduce contradictions and to defend freedom and security. The plans are good. The Rotterdam mentality is needed. And cooperation with each other, with the whole Chamber and with society as a whole, becomes crucial. In all this, I wish all the members of this cabinet a great deal of work joy and from the bottom of my heart the blessing of God.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u479	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u480	Mr. Chairman. For a change, let me first compliment the coalition parties. Yeah, you should sit down for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u481	Mr Rutte is indeed going to sit down for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u482	Yeah, he's never heard that before. The climate problem has been given an honourable mention in the coalition agreement, despite the fact that according to CDA-prominent Wijffels colleague Buma knows just as little about the climate problem as Trump and despite the fact that the VVD removed the climate problem from the electoral programme under pressure from its party congress. But the climate problem is in the coalition agreement. A tip for D66 and the Christian Union. Maybe it's the wake-up call from the courthouse in the Urgenda climate case. Perhaps it is because of the reports of the European Court of Auditors and the Planning Office for the Environment, the figures of the CBS or the United Nations, all of which find that the policies deployed are insufficient to comply with international climate agreements. But, unfortunately, here comes the 'but', because the proposed measures show that it is mainly about moving forward and pushing off. Even if the coalition calls this coalition agreement the greenest agreement ever, it is not, as I said to Mr Segers, a trend break with the completely hazing policy of the past, let us say five governments. This is also shown by the Planning Office for the Environment by passing on the coalition agreement. I quote: The government agreement is clearly much more focused on 2030 than on 2020. And: The introduction of many measures will require too much lead time to have effects by 2020. It is clear that the government has more faith in its successors than in itself. The so-called greenest cabinet does not even reach half of the agreed Paris climate goals. That's what we signed off on. It shows some brutality to present half the work as if half of it were already inside. It also creates little confidence if we have a Minister for Economic Affairs who is also the Minister for Climate Change. A bit like being the minister of losing weight and chocolate pepper nuts, Claudia de Breij said. The new minister was exposed this week in the Volkskrant, unfortunately. He claimed immediately after his swearing-in that the Netherlands is at the forefront of Europe in the pursuit of a successful climate policy. The first de Volkskrant's best factcheck showed that the Netherlands is doing worse than almost all other European countries. Can the Prime Minister indicate how this remarkable difference of opinion can be explained? The introduction of the coalition agreement says that we have no alternative to tackling it. In doing so, the cabinet underestimates itself. Such an alternative has indeed found it: moving forward and sweeping problems under the carpet. The cabinet enters into a 1238-day contract with society to address the major challenges of our time. At the same time, it reports that it is only after 1239 days that we can really get started. The next cabinet can take care of it. The Rutte III cabinet promises a tax on airline tickets from 2021, so after it has just left itself. The cabinet promises the closure of five coal power stations, but only after 2023 will the timetable be determined, so no longer in this government period. To rule over your grave, that is to say, by stoking up the coals first and then saying to your successor, "Come on with the goat." Rutte II's target of reducing CO by 25% by 2020 is not being met. The court has condemned the State for this in an unmisunderstood judgment. The target for increasing the share of renewable energy is also not met. And what does the new cabinet do, Rutte III? It deletes the targets and now gambles at 2030. This cabinet shows off the feathers of its successors. Prior to the coalition agreement, the coalition parties at the PBL, Plan Bureau for the Environment, asked how the government could reduce CO emissions without affecting emissions. A Houdini act for those who want a green image without making green choices. The answer from the planning agency was that this could only be done by putting CO underground and taking other technical measures. At the same time, the PBL noted that much more is needed. A shrinkage of livestock, for example, and a reduction in meat and dairy consumption. But that requires behavior change for citizens, businesses and governments. And that's beyond discussion for this coalition with the engine block of the CDA and the VVD. Nothing among us awaits, with emphasis on "wait." Instead, the cabinet is stuck in air bike business more than eight years ago. On 14 July 2009, Het Financieele Dagblad headlined that Ruud Lubbers' Rotterdam Climate Initiative was ready for underground storage of CO. A completely unfeasible and even dangerous idea that seemed dead and buried will come on the table after eight years of lobbying. A fossil plan from an outdated era, born of outdated thinking. It is unfeasible, it costs an unnecessary amount of energy and it goes at the expense of solar panels and wind energy, because it has to be paid out of the subsidy pool that was intended to stimulate renewable energy. CO storage is very controversial and I would like to remind you of the Battle of Barendrecht seven years ago and what a misery it has caused. Then the cabinet itself saw it coming, by the mouth of Minister Verhagen. Can the Prime Minister indicate what has led the cabinet to give the irreplaceable path of CO storage a new priority over real solutions? Which companies lobbied for this plan? I'm gonna wait for the Prime Minister to finish, because I have a question. How do you get to the miserable plan to give CO storage priority over real solutions? Which companies lobbied for this plan? At the time, did Shell file a claim with the State when their CO2 storage failed? Is there such a claim to be expected from the newly involved market players as it turns out that CO2 storage is still as unlikely as it was then? I'd like a response. Now pollute, clean up later. Those things. The cabinet doesn't just push through. It's slipping too. The climate problem is referred to as the biggest market failure in human history. However, Rutte II remains sacredly confident in the market and market players for its solutions, with economic growth as the cure for all our ailments. A few examples. Following the agricultural lobby's insistence that the milk quota should be abolished and that the market should prevail, the number of cows in the Netherlands increased so explosively that the amount of manure produced went through the agreed ceiling. The government pulled the emergency brake, after which 160,000 healthy cows were sacrificed on the altar of the economy with slaughter subsidies of no less than 25 million euros. Another example. The cabinet does not stop the unimpeded sale of vulnerable values. It embraces trade agreements such as TTIP and CETA that put free trade above climate. To speak with FNV President Busker: The cabinet is in the misplaced assumption that if business is given the advantage, the people and society will automatically benefit from it. The Netherlands remains a tax haven, a welfare state for multinationals. Where the normal Dutchman is going to pay more for all the daily necessities of life thanks to the VAT increase, the business community gets the jackpot of this cabinet. And the bill is with the citizen. In the case of measures, including the storage of CO, citizens may cough up nearly 1 billion and pay the real polluter, the large business, only half a billion. Why don't you explain that? Self-regulation leads to unsafe situations. That is what we saw in the financial crisis with the banking sector, and this is what we saw again in the food industry this summer. Unfortunately, it also occurs in aviation. It is raining severe criticism from the supervisory authorities, as recently by the Security Research Council. With regard to the safety of Schiphol, he concluded that the State is ultimately responsible for safety at Schiphol Airport, but that he has largely delegated that responsibility to the sector parties and that the sector is unable to guarantee that safety fully and collectively. That's the same problem over and over again. Nevertheless, Rutte III also focuses heavily on self-regulation, agreements and consultation with market players, who show little ethical awareness. According to recent reports, Shell and BP internally account for a temperature increase of 5 degrees, while they claim to support the Paris climate goals. First the oil, then the planet. And Shelltopman Ben van Beurden even said global warming wouldn't affect the value of Shell's share. Shell and NAM offer teaching material that teaches children that fossil fuels are sustainable. The NAM states in textbooks that natural gas is the cleanest of all fossil fuels and that natural gas does not cause damage to the environment. The NAM has been convicted of this by the Advertising Code Commission, but Shell does not care about it and simply goes through more. Just like Shell did at the Generation Discover festival, sponsored by the municipality of The Hague, which recently took place. How is that to be explained and is the cabinet going to put an end to this? Also for Rutte III, economic growth is a sacred and unshakable faith. The success of our society is still measured by the growth of gross domestic product, despite the fine words in the coalition agreement that society is more than a collection of figures. The same applies to the ambition to turn the Netherlands into a circular economy. Beautiful words, hardly deeds. In order to achieve climate and circular economy objectives, we simply need a different economic model based on a broad concept of prosperity. There are a lot of ideas about this at the moment. From the CBS, which will release the first Monitor Brede Prosperity in spring 2018, to the British economist Kate Raworth, who proposes in her Doughnut Economics a social lower limit and an ecological upper limit to our economy. Unfortunately, the coalition agreement excels in nothingness and no commitment in terms of that necessary change. Greenwashing as a front for an unsustainable economy. They're wipes for the bleeding. Mr. Chairman. This isn't about what we can afford, it's about what we can afford. The conditions for our existence are under threat. It's very literal now: your money or your life. Instead of answering that question, Rutte III transfers the problems to future generations. We're in a catastrophic biodiversity crisis. The sixth wave of extinction has already had unprecedented consequences for insect populations and bird species. In German nature reserves 75% of all insects have disappeared. Cause: farmland where lusty spraying is done with poison, such as neonicotinoids and Roundup. The Netherlands is in the top three countries with the highest poison use in the world. Life in the North Sea has decreased by one third. The livestock industry emits immense amounts of ammonia that literally acidifies and ruins the wider environment. We have only 15% of the original biodiversity left. What a pity, then, that both livestock and fisheries are under the special protection of this coalition. Roads and buildings put our scarce natural areas in ever greater danger. Bye-bye birds, bye-bye flowers, bye-bye fishing. The coalition agreement is silent about it in all languages. Animals and plants die. Nature crumbles and is shredded. But the Rutte III cabinet applauds, because money is being earned again. Mr President, we can turn the tide even though the odds of any hazing cabinet agreement are getting smaller and the problems are getting more urgent. Is the cabinet going to come up with a ban on agricultural poison? Or, like the CO reduction, is it going to slide and slide? Will it be legislation, or endlessly palaver with the agricultural sector? Agriculture has been given a separate status by the cabinet. A sacred cow that does not seem to be corrected in any way. The Agriculture and Gardening Organisation was therefore served at its beck and call during the formation when it demanded that the agricultural sector should be self-governing and that the State should only play the role of a leanly-equipped supervisor. You've got to have the guts. The agricultural lobby is clearly an important co-author of this coalition agreement. For example, the meat industry has been able to enforce that there is no tax on meat and the chicken industry has demanded that the pace of sustainability should come from the market rather than from regulation. Not only does the cabinet want to sweep CO under the mat, the same mat must also cover our dung heap. Agriculture, one of the biggest polluters in the Netherlands, is involved in solving the problems for bacon and beans. This is the way the agricultural lobby wanted it, and the cabinet is on the leash of this lobby. By 2030, agriculture will have to emit a small 20% reduction in greenhouse gases, or 3.5 megatons. It will take her 13 years, and we know that we can do something about it today. One day a week no meat food saves just as much megaton of CO. But not a word about it in the coalition agreement. This cannot be done by the meat lobby, which seems to have more power in this country than the cabinet. That is Rutte III: afraid of the electorate and of the sector. That gives little confidence in the future. D66 and CU previously advocated the introduction of a meat tax. "We tax something that is not sustainable. The livestock sector is doing very badly when it comes to CO emissions," said Mr Pechtold. "Products and services with a relatively large ecological footprint should be subject to a higher VAT rate," says the Christian Union. None of that is reflected in the coalition agreement. In fact, the cabinet makes sustainable and healthy products like fruit and vegetables as much more expensive as meat and dairy. This agreement is the result of a large exchange of ideals. If you agree to postpone embryo selection, I agree to postpone the closure of coal plants. The engine block of CDA and VVD was already seen as a given right after the elections; Pavlov in the polder. The staggering hazing of D66 and Christian Union is only the beginning of sorrows. We get three rulers who worked at Shell. We are getting a ruler who is still in conflict with his inappropriate remarks about politicians from parties who have now become coalition partners before his appointment. And we have a VVD that says we can't find enough skilled women for this cabinet. Can I, as the only female political group chairman in this House, say 100 years after the introduction of passive women's right to vote, that I think that's a bitch? "Where beliefs are dominated by belief, belief, belief, ideals and conscience, it cannot be required to renounce them," according to the coalition agreement. And yet that is exactly what the Christian Union and D66 have done in the greatest crises that threaten our future. One of the most embarrassing outcomes is the exchange of our right to privacy. This cabinet has decided to proceed with the tow law. In fact, Mr Buma is already saying that he will ignore the outcome of the referendum on this subject. In him, Animal Farm and 1984 of George Orwell come together. The cabinet says to listen mainly to citizens, but in fact it means "heave a listen." The cabinet can and may tap your Internet traffic, even if you are not a suspect. Where D66 said 2015 should be the year of privacy, two years later the party already makes the fundamental right to privacy on sale. Citizens are given the opportunity, according to the government agreement, to participate in the decision on neighbourhood projects, but residents of Schiphol should not complain about enlargement plans. "If only they hadn't moved into an airport." Residents of the Veluwe should not complain about the routes of Lelystad Airport, because "it is still quieter than in the Randstad." The cabinet knows that such very difficult decisions are actually impossible, but looks the other way. Then the college debt. The student's student's student's student debt will be greatly increased by the increase in interest rates on the student's student loan. Nothing has been heard about the return of the basic grant promised by CDA and ChristenUnion. And another broken promise: one's own risk. A lot has been said about that. It will not be reduced, while CDA and Christian Union made a big point of this during the election campaign and thus managed to recruit votes. D66 and ChristianUnion also wanted the bed-bath bread scheme for refugees never to be used as an incentive or force to force return. That is what is going to happen in the coalition agreement. There won't be a new children's pardon. With this, they're giving away a piece of civilization. Mr. Chairman. Visionless, neither meat nor fish, a potpourri of lobbying conversations; I can't make it any better. No wonder there is no coherent consistent green vision in it, no matter how much the coalition parties claim otherwise. Mr Rutte is going to rule with the smallest possible majority in both Chambers. A challenge, because Mr Rutte knows: whoever does not honor the little one has quickly ruled out. That's why he's reaching out to the opposition. We will have to discuss with each other in the near future what plans can be improved with the support of the opposition, he said. I would like to come back to that in second place with a single motion, or perhaps more. Mr. Chairman. I have rarely seen a coalition agreement where so much still needs to be filled in, but I see it as an invitation. What is visionless must become ambitious. What is conservative must be radical. What's fossil must turn green. That is why I believe, Mr President, that the bio-industry must be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u483	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. The general women's right was only in 1919. Passive and active.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u484	Passive in 1917, active in 1919.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u485	Exactly. There's been a lot of discussion about it, that's why I know. I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u486	I see you're a little tired, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u487	No, I'm not. I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u488	Me neither.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u489	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u490	Madam President. I'd be happy to take you back to Monday, March 20th of this year. Gerlicia is born, a beautiful girl who is now seven months old. The parents are very happy but also worried about the future of their little ones. What world does she end up in? What will the Netherlands look like if Gerlicia is 18? How safe is the Netherlands then, in the big noisy world? Are there still terrorist attacks? What will it be like with our climate? Do we keep dry feet? Is the Netherlands still in existence or have we moved into Europe? Rightful questions from young parents with small children. Gerlicia and her parents were allowed to meet me recently. I will not forget Gerlicia: a cheerful baby who looked at me smiling all the time and I hope she can have a wonderful future. If one target group could experience the motto of this coalition agreement, it is of course this group of young parents with newborns. Each of us hopes that they alone can have confidence in the future. I therefore hope that Gerlicia will at least be better off than most other members of her family. I talked to them, too. Imagine: a family of five generations. Gerlicia's father and mother are for in his twenties, grandmother is in her forty's and after a divorce is single, great-grandmother and great-grandfather are around sixty and great-grandmother is an eighty. They live in the same city, one closer, the other a little further. With them I discussed what concerns them and the consequences of this coalition agreement. Gerlicia's mother is Bennita. She's 23 and she lives with Dennis. He works full-time as a cook and Bennita works part-time at a large drugstore. She has already had to experience several times with previous employers that she was back on the street over time because an even younger person is even cheaper for the company. This can be done very easily, because of the many temporary contracts that employers are allowed to offer. Grandma Patricia, of course, doesn't want to be called a grandmother. She's only 43, the center of the family, divorced, unemployed and dependent on welfare benefits. She's got a side job for one day a week, but she's at home after a divorce because of a burnout. She was so through that she was offered a short vacation from her mother this week to catch her breath. People like Patricia will also be faced with a significant increase in the low VAT rate. This can be seen directly in the wallet, just with the everyday messages. Is this cabinet prepared to make any changes to this? 50PLUS is in any case against the increase in the VAT rate. Great-grandmother Annelies is a housewife. She's 60. Her husband Ben works in construction. He's had a hernia several times. His back isn't pulling anymore, and yet, while he still can, he's working his ass off. This morning, Ben had to get out of bed at 4:00 a.m. to get out of Breda on time in Amsterdam for a job. As long as he's still holding on to it, but Ben doubt that he'll be able to do it for up to 68 years, he deserves a little more than the rest of the family, so that Ben and Annelies can come along once in a while when the others are on their feet. Great-grandmother Nelleke is 81. She hasn't been able to build up a pension herself. So, unfortunately, Nelleke cannot benefit from our pension system, one of the best in the world. This cabinet must put this system on the ground. 50PLUS wants to maintain and modernise our pension system. This is to improve the purchasing power of current pensioners and to regain the confidence of future pensioners. Unnecessary discounts can be avoided with the initiative legislative proposal tabled by 50PLUS and we will soon be discussing them in this Chamber. Nelleke's husband died. Nelleke has several health problems. Her hands are crooked. For years she worked at the auction. With a kind of reverse vacuum cleaner she shot thousands of lettuces a day in plastic bags, so that we can easily take such a crop out of the supermarket. Her husband, too, has never been able to build up a pension. So she lives on AOW alone. After paying her fixed charges rent, gas, water, light, insurance, etc., she leaves €150 per month to make a living, less than €5 per day. That's very difficult. That borders on poverty. The other day she was visiting somewhere and she got a gingerbread. On the dish were a few slices, untouched. When her hostess was gone, she put a slice in her purse. At home, she divided that slice into three pieces so that when her daughter and granddaughter came to visit, she could serve something at the coffee. Each month she looks forward to the day on which the rental fee comes in and of course to the 22nd or 23rd of the month, when the AOW is credited. In the days before, she often lives alone on sugar sandwiches. Money for a decent meal isn't there, let alone for something extra. In the months with many birthdays, she can't buy everyone a little present. Last week was a fair in Breda. She's embarrassed that she couldn't even pay her grandchildren a euro of carnival money. One night at the bingo, she's barely been able to afford herself since her husband's death. Occasionally, daughter Annelies or great-grandddaughter Bennita do a lot of work, but rather she doesn't want to be a burden to anyone. Don't complain. She is, like many others of her generation, with very little satisfaction. But Nelleke is afraid to get sick, because her own risk has become unbearable in recent years and many others. This cabinet has decided to maintain its own risk in the coming years. But if we do nothing else, that means that the premium will increase by hundreds of euros in the coming years. When Nelleke heard that this morning, she was startled. Is this measure to avoid care for financial reasons really being implemented? That's what I'm asking the Prime Minister. One of her neighbors is dependent on the neighborhood care and Nelleke heard that in the coalition agreement there is nibble on that. We've talked about that a lot today. She's sometimes jealous of the way her neighbors, who come from a different culture, look at the elderly. There is still respect for the elderly. In the past, Nelleke believes that this was also much more self-evident in Dutch culture. That respect for the elderly seems to have disappeared in several places. She hopes that she will still be able to see some more respect for older generations in the future. Nelleke hates debt. She's never been in debt. Her whole life she was thrifty, she didn't want to touch someone else's wallet. But due to a mistake from her energy supplier.... she got a smart meter and her monthly amount went down which she was very happy with... she got into trouble anyway. It's a matter that even the TV show Radar mentioned. Suddenly she got a note that a mistake had been made and that she had to pay €722,13 extra. Of course, she can't do that. But oh, what was the energy supplier's coolness: she is now allowed to pay in monthly instalments in two years for a mistake she is not guilty of herself. But that's not her biggest problem. That's the loneliness. Nelleke goes as often as she can to her children, grandchildren and great grandchildren. But even so, it is usually only because the previous Rutte Cabinets decided that the elderly should stay at home as long as possible. Sometimes I feel like standing by the front door with my rollator, she told me. Then I'd like to call in random passers-by and have a little chat. She doesn't have to count on the municipality's care. In her circle of acquaintances, she knows citizens who have to sue against their municipal administration in order to enforce the much-needed social support. So we are talking about municipal authorities who should be helping to find solutions that should enable people to stay at home for longer if they so wish. The cabinet is busy with elderly people in nursing homes. Good! But we must not forget that over 90% of the elderly, like Nelleke, are trying to survive at home. Another problem: how will municipalities now become responsible for the fight against poverty? Because poverty trap is becoming decentralised. Yeah, it'll work fine here and there, but in other places it'll be a disaster. 50PLUS warned about care migration in the decentralisation of care: people with a certain condition and the corresponding care better off in one municipality than in the other, sometimes only a few kilometers away. That is not even a real possibility for people in poverty. Nelleke consciously experienced the period shortly after the war. At that time, it was logical for everyone to be encouraged to rebuild. Work had to pay. But now, in 2017, that's different. People who no longer participate in regular working life also contribute to society. And how? They volunteer, stand in the sports canteen, look after their children and grandchildren, his caregiver, keep society running. Let them also profit fairly now that the weather is getting better! Do not put them aside, as this cabinet and previous cabinets under the direction of Mark Rutte seem to do! And yes, do not give the excuse that the average older will improve 0.6%. The daughter of great-grandmother Nelleke, great-grandmother Annelies, is 60. She is a housewife and she supports her two years younger husband Ben, who has been working in construction since he was 14. So that's 44 years now, uninterrupted. Ben's out. His back won't last. His knees are also completely worn out. And yet Ben has to go on for more than ten years, according to this Prime Minister, who once promised street makers in Venlo that they could stop at 65 if they voted VVD. We are not reading any more about this in this coalition agreement. This morning at 4:00 a.m. I told you, Ben left for another job in Amsterdam. Annelies is trying to get a job. If that succeeds, she could reduce her husband Ben with his work, but she experiences daily that as a 50-pluser you can hardly get to work, at most something temporary. Contracts shall not be renewed. She doesn't feel like she's getting a fair chance. Annelies read that this cabinet has the ambition to help more people on a permanent contract of employment. That sounds nice and ambitious. But can the Prime Minister explain to Annelies how? Because the effect turns out to be a real nightmare for employees. What do you mean, more permanent contracts? There will be an extension of temporary contracts. There's gonna be a longer probation period. There's gonna be a cut in the transition fee. Is her daughter Patricia, who lives on welfare benefits, gonna notice that? Are her thumb screws being pulled any further? Are people with Wajong benefits punished by a 5% reduction? Not as far as 50PLUS is concerned. We shall therefore put to the vote tomorrow our motion which has been tabled and which has been held. In the coalition agreement, I never found out how people are really going to be helped. There are too few solutions that will ensure that older workers are given a fair chance again. It does say how they can be dismissed more easily and cheaper. This cabinet is particularly good for employers. Ben has already advised his wife Annelies to stop looking for work. Especially for the generation of Annelies and Ben and for older generations, the abolition of the Hills Act is a payoff. You'll only have your own house, which you've always considered an apple for thirst. You will only have lived economically and properly relieved, partly encouraged by these Hills of the Law. Isn't that what scares you when you hear that this scheme is being abolished? That sounds like a fine on thrift and good behavior, doesn't it? The Prime Minister was so honest to acknowledge that it was not his preference. I will inform you in advance that my colleague Martin van Rooijen will do everything in his power to get this discharge off the table next week. You'll be surprised what he'll pull out of the closet. However, there are also positive things to note about this coalition agreement. It is good that there is a solution for small and medium-sized enterprises, which cannot impose the burden of long-term illness on workers. However, it is bizarre to read that people who are 80% to 100% disabled still have to use half of their remaining earning capacity to maintain their current benefit. It's crazy, isn't it, that we're going to put extra pressure on these people who are really sick, who are disabled or unable to work, when they have virtually no decent opportunities? Surely we should use these efforts to encourage and help people who can work, e.g. elderly people who are long-term unemployed? We welcome the additional resources for nursing home care, although they are not the merit of this cabinet alone. In fact, in other areas of concern, a broad agreement should bring about nearly 2 billion. In our view, there is no question of cutting back on ggz, on-the-job care and on general practitioners. On the positive side, however, there is a single rate for the own contribution in the Social Support Act. We're going to Patricia, the 43-year-old woman. Patricia lives on welfare benefits. She recently divorced and was unable to find accommodation in a temporary home, a demolition site. She is now waiting for a better home, because she doesn't want to depend on her daughter, her mother or her great-grandmother. That could take years, because the waiting lists are huge. After her divorce, she didn't have to take one step back. She had to take five. She showed me her fingernails with pride. "He's doing a good friend of mine," she said. "I get my scent on the market, and my foundation comes from the Action. Money to put a flower on the table once in a while, as I used to do, there is no money." And because she was all over it, her mother gave her a short vacation this week. During that week, Mr Buma, CDA-Mr Buma, will make a comment on the referendum. He does not seem to appreciate the advice of the Dutch. 50PLUS doesn't understand that. We are even in favour of a binding referendum. Patricia's daughter, Bennita, is working very hard with her husband Dennis to make ends meet. She still has a student debt of €7,000 from an education she hasn't been able to finish. The problems surrounding her parents' divorce were part of that. She has to pay off that debt now, and that's why she works. She can, because her mother, grandma and grandpa and even her great-grandmother come to babysit little Gerlicia. Without Mom, Grandma and Grandma and the others in the family, I wouldn't be able to do that, Bennita told me. It is particularly important for this young generation that our economy continues to function properly. This family lives in Brabant, where many innovative companies are based. They're leading the way. For the Netherlands, it is important that these companies continue to be at the forefront so that they can continue to export their products and services around the world. I am thinking of innovations in the areas of care, autonomous driving, electric cars and even solar-powered cars. This can only be experimented with if the current legislation, which is based on old techniques, is extended or, in some cases, put aside. Recently there was a plea in De Telegraaf to make the Netherlands a breeding ground for innovation. Is the Cabinet prepared to take action on this? Madam President. For 50PLUS one thing is clip-and-ready. Whatever the figures, the purchasing power of pensioners has been lagging behind that of workers for many years. This difference will only increase in the coming years. That this is a political choice of VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion is clear. It's not our choice. We would have made another one. We will come forward with proposals for this during the debates on budgets and the General Financial Reviews. The coalition agreement states that the cabinet will take over the manifestally Vigorous Ageing. Then where is item 1 of that manifesto, a coordinating minister of or for the elderly policy? We have been advocating this for years. A 50PLUS motion was rejected by the coalition parties, including those who signed the manifesto, at the beginning of October. Why? On that occasion we also tabled a motion on the setting up of a special committee on the elderly. We kept it at the time, but we put it to the vote this morning. I ask the other colleagues to look very carefully at this. It would do good to many old people in our country. Madam President. What I mentioned here are just a few concerns that live with this family. A family with five generations and yet a very ordinary family. Thousands of these families live in the Netherlands. Gerlicia, Bennita, Dennis, Patricia, Annelies, Ben and Nelleke are real people of flesh and blood. Although 50PLUS stands out especially for people 50 years of age and older, we have plenty of eyes for younger generations and people coming after us. I noticed that with this family, too. Young and old, all generations, they all want the best for each other. That's how it belongs in a family, in a society, in this country. 50PLUS will work during the coming reign to ensure the best possible old age for today's older generations and for future older generations. Every generation must have confidence in the future. Every time we find this cabinet on our side in this endeavour, we will support it. But every time the cabinet doesn't share its desires and burdens fairly between the generations, 50PLUS will do everything in its power to make that right. We will often speak with the rulers and hope for fruitful cooperation, as long as possible and appropriate to the wishes of these and other similar families. Madam President. I talked today about the De Leij family from Breda. They are following this debate very closely. I therefore ask the Cabinet not only to look me in the eye, but above all to them, and to give a fair answer to their concerns. Yes, the Prime Minister is looking in the right direction, because they're up there in the public gallery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u491	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u492	Madam President. The title of my contribution is "a prayer without end." It's 10:40 and it was 10:30 this morning that we started. So it's kind of about this debate. "A prayer without end" we say when something takes a lot longer or a lot longer and doesn't seem to end it. You can get that feeling every now and then. But of course it was also with that formation in mind. That was actually a prayer without end. How long did that take? A record broken! But yeah, if I'm being very honest, when I made my speech from "What is it?" I thought it was a bit of a prayer without an end. It's tuned to those 20 minutes. It has been hard working on it for a long time, but everyone is tired at some point and has had it a bit. Now our information department summarized my story this afternoon in ten tweets. I thought, "Wouldn't I just read those ten tweets?" Just a brief explanation: if everyone agrees, I am going to do so, but I want it to be listened to. Otherwise I'm gonna start reading my speech!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u493	Okay, we're gonna try. The first is: "A government statement on thank you day! By the way, it is not the case that the churches cried out a thank-you day because of a new cabinet." I have already said this morning in an interrupting debate with Mr Wilders that it is a Protestant tradition to have a thank you day, on which you thank God for all the blessings He gave. Now you might think: does that have something to do with the Christian parties in the cabinet that today there was a thank-you day proclaimed by that church? No, that has nothing to do with it. It's just a regular day, a Wednesday in November. You always get all kinds of conspiracy theories around a new cabinet. I also heard whispering somewhere in a progressive circle: it is striking that the cabinet has not yet been sworn in or the clock is turned back on Sunday. So it has nothing to do with that! That was also completely independent of the cabinet. That was the first point. The second tweet: "Thank you is an old tradition, once even encouraged by the States General." Actually, I explained that. Then I come to the third: "The SGP advocates the placing of NL flag in parliament. That should be as obvious as learning from the national anthem." Yes, of course it was about symbolism such as the Wilhelmus, the Rijksmuseum and patriotic history. And then you're thinking, and you're thinking, how many parliaments have I been to where just a flag is? It is really strange that we do not have a Dutch flag here in the Dutch Parliament. Wouldn't that be a nice innovation, too? There have been more innovations recently, also around the cabinet formation. Some of them were appealing. I would also like to make a generous compliment to Mr. Pechtold for the public swearing-in we have today. I must honestly say that we were not so enthusiastic in the past, but once I saw it and the role of the King was so beautifully highlighted, I thought it was a win. That's a nice ceremony, isn't it? But doesn't it fit into that symbolism to show the flag in this way? That was the third tweet. Then I go to the fourth: "We are grateful for many things: among others. more money Defence, district agents, money families, fight loneliness and green agenda." That is quite a mouthful for one tweet, but it shows that there are also quite a lot of points in the coalition agreement that we are enthusiastic about. And yes, those are good points. Of course, you don't want to be acidic, because the 1.5 billion dollars for the Defense Department is beautiful, but I do think that more needs to be done. But that actually came out in the interruptions. So that still calls for a convincing result. You say the beautiful things in your speech first and then you say: yes, but this is really something that isn't good enough yet. That's tweet five: "I'm sorry to point out the gaping gap in tax burden between one earner and two earners. When will this injustice be dealt with?" Look, Mr Segers just said they really did their best. I'm sure of it. "Look," he said, "to that beautiful purchasing power improvement for that one earner." Totally true. It is indeed really good news that the purchasing power of these single-earning families has increased. What we mean by narrowing that gap is that it remains so acidic that if you earn that €40,000 on your own, you will have to pay €8,500 more tax than if you earn €40,000 in a family. That's kind of weird. There's the same money in that family wallet and you have to pay $8,500 more tax. That's what we call the gap, and it should really get smaller. There's an old Schalk motion from the First Chamber. Is the cabinet really willing to do something about that? Tweet six: "The SGP wants to know if the government is going to act against Australian ex-doctor Dr. Death, who sells his suicide manual from Amsterdam." That's a tough point, this whole medical-ethical problem. There are nice points in it when performing Cruelly Ageing. We see a small lobby becoming fanatic outside the current legislation to say: we want to claim a kind of right to suicide and we really do not care about that legislation. My question is whether there is a willingness to enforce it and to comply with the rules that we have laid down for it. That was tweet six. I come to tweet seven: 'We are very interested in the direction of the cabinet on Israeli policy and the European Union, both of which are relevant issues for the SGP'. Israel's policy is a sensitive issue. I believe that we have been talking for weeks about a few sentences in the coalition agreement. Then you think, "What exactly is going to happen?" I just want to test one point. There has been a lot of hassle around UNESCO, such a UN organisation where many statements are adopted that are a bit of a political weapon against Israel. Israel and the U.S. even got out. My question is not whether the Netherlands is getting out of it, but whether the Netherlands is prepared to make a point of this within UNESCO and to say that this cannot be done in this way. Then there is the European Union. You can see quite convincingly more Europe on a number of points. Mr Pechtold said in his speech that he was actually satisfied with the paragraph on the European Union. Well, then you have to be careful, because he just wants more Europe. I also see the European Public Prosecutor's Office in it. My question is: is there going to be less Europe where that is possible? For example, you can look at the rules that affect smaller companies, such as risk inventories. Do you have to do all that? Couldn't you also go the other way and say: now the broom through those European rules? Tweet eight: "I know why CDA + ChristianUnion grant weed law to Pechtold. They're planning a referendum scenario. Possession of the matter is the end of entertainment." That might be a little cryptic. I had expected that I had a very dry piece of text and that you needed something here again to wake everyone up. Then the thought was: they already know that we don't like that weed law, because addiction shouldn't be experimented with, but how could Segers and Buma have gone along with it? Pechtold apparently negotiated very well on that point, but they might have said: if you give him his way, it might have ended very quickly. After all, we have been hoping for some time against this referendum law, and we have not been able to convince him. And then the referendum law comes and they say: yes indeed, that's nothing at all, stop it. Maybe that's how the weed law works. We hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u494	Tweet nine: "Thanking for good creates confidence in the future. Trust is a key word." It's been a lot about trust today. Trust in the future has the cabinet and the coalition parties. Very nice, but now the citizens. That was a bit of the message: to gain confidence from the citizens. For that, it is important that there is not too much yo-yo policy, such as with the accelerated mortgage interest deduction and the write-off. That's a little yo-yo policy. People are first made happy that something goes in a certain way and then things are different again. That is something you should be careful about if you do not want to disappoint the citizens' confidence. It is also important that, if you have legislation, it does not work out so that people say: how can this happen? I'll get to the point of Sunday rest. The Sunday law is not going to be repealed, we saw in the letter today. That's good news. But we do have the problem that for example in Paddepoel, the district in Groningen, shopkeepers are really obliged to be open on Sundays; otherwise they will get heavy fines. We tabled a motion in the Chamber two years ago, and Mr Pechtold, who supported that motion at the time, and other parties, is already nodding a yes, saying that this is not the intention. But it has to be changed, because it is still the case. So please also pay attention to that. We have actually already mentioned that it is important in the care of people to look at how things are actually working out in people's homes. That's how I got to the end of the speech. "Trust is the key word." With that I wanted to come back to the thank-you day, which I started with; then the story is quite clear. Thanks for good creates confidence in the future. That's so beautiful: if you just stare blindly at what's wrong, if you don't be careful, you're gonna get sourder and sourder. If you also have an eye for what goes well, you will have more confidence in the future. This is not meant to cover everything easily with the cloak of gratitude, because we also need to be able to honestly name downsides. That is very important, and it is the role of the Chamber. But we must also have a bit of an eye for the things that are going well. Then my last tweet is: "I close with painting of Maes." That is what you see outside this Chamber. The coalition parties want the students to go to the Rijksmuseum, but we have brought a piece of Rijksmuseum to parliament: a beautiful painting, which actually fits nicely with gratitude. You can see the painting outside. I also had a postcard of the painting placed in all the mailboxes of the MPs, and I would like to ask the messengers to put it to the directors as well. It's a beautiful painting, Old Woman in Prayer. That old woman prays with surrender before she starts her meal. She is not distracted by the begging cat, who impatiently pulls on the tablecloth. The core message is: also focus on spiritual values, dealing with God. It is a painting by Nicolaes Maes, a pupil of Rembrandt. Wednesday, November 1st, the Protestant churches celebrate their annual thank-you day to thank God for all the good things and the blessings He gives. Let this painting now also be known with the title The Prayer Without End. Well, that's gonna fit pretty well. I would therefore like to say to all the rulers: be assured that not only today but also in all the other weeks in the year many places in the country will be prayed for you, no matter what party you are, for wisdom and for God's blessing for all your work. That concludes me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u495	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u496	Thank you, Mr President. At DENK we have often asked ourselves the question: how do you do it? How do you manage to have the time to write a government agreement after 225 days, with such a bulletpoint piece without vision? How do you manage to maintain so much injustice in economically advantageous times and thus be the cabinet of missed opportunities? The cabinet that makes fundamentally unjust choices. The cabinet that undresses care heartlessly. The cabinet that leaves the towering own risk sky high next year. The cabinet that raises the health insurance premium again. The cabinet that cleans carelessly in the neighborhood nursing. The cabinet that leaks dirty to the media. The cabinet that introduces an antisocial shopping tax. The cabinet that makes students pay more for their student loans. The cabinet that does not reflect society at all. The cabinet that wants to take their second passport away from future generations. The cabinet that does nothing extra to combat discrimination and racism. The cabinet that continues to talk cramped about integration rather than about mutual acceptance. In short, the cabinet that no one wants. You must be completely detached from reality if you choose Trust in the future as a motto. What a joke. What a lack of a sense of reality. Ask the people in the country, Mr. Rutte. Ask the people in the country who are severely affected by your policy if they still have confidence in the future. For example, ask Aunt Leen, an older lady who sees the quality of her care going down because you, Mr Rutte, are cutting down on community care. Do you think Aunt Leen still has faith in the future? Ask Muhammad in the Schilderswijk, who sees that discrimination is not being addressed because you, Mr Rutte, do not take tough measures to combat labour market discrimination. Do you think Muhammad still has faith in the future? Ask Wendy, that single mother who sees that she has to pay a lot more for bread, milk, fruit and vegetables because you, Mr Rutte, increase the VAT antisocially. Do you think Wendy still has faith in the future? The answer is no, no and no again. An overwhelming majority of over 65% have no confidence in this cabinet. That is even less than confidence in the disastrous Rutte/Asscher cabinet and the even more disastrous Rutte I with the support of Wilders. The trust of the people in the country has been violated. D66, CDA, VVD and Christian Union have deceived voters in many ways. DENK wouldn't be DENK if she didn't point out to a number of MPs about denying their background. Let's start with the CDA. CDA'er Mona Keijzer came before the election with the Care for each other plan. It promised to reduce its own risk by €105. 'We do not make empty promises', was still in it, but now that the elections are over, Mrs Keijzer simply signs for a risk of her own that is not reduced. And before that she was rewarded with a place in the cabinet. Dan D66. Before the elections, D66-Kamerlid Sjoerd Sjoerdsma planned that a Dutchman could have a multiple nationality. But after the elections, he and his party simply cooperated in a measure that could have been devised by the PVV. D66 ensures that future generations must give up their second nationality in order to remain Dutch. That's not confidence in the future, that's mistrust of your origins. Diversity was a nice parade horse for D66 during the campaign, but that is now very nice by political windsman Pechtold and associates in the old dirt. Has anyone listened to the voters? Has the direction chosen by the Netherlands followed? Has election promises been honored? The answer is no, no and no again. With an accumulation of broken promises it seems that the coalition agreement is a written by a pathological liar. No wonder there's no more trust in politics in The Hague. No wonder politicians are no longer believed. No wonder people feel that they are not being listened to by the cabinet. Then what is this cabinet listening to? This cabinet listens to stinkingly rich shareholders in countries far away. They will receive EUR 1.4 billion in tax relief from this cabinet. This cabinet listens to slurp multinationals who have been avoiding and circumventing tax for years. They receive a gift from this cabinet of 3.3 billion euros. This cabinet listens to people with an income of more than a ton. They get a discount on income tax. This cabinet not only leaks to the media, this cabinet also leaks money, huge amounts of money, money that goes to people who don't need it at all. Who's gonna cough up these gifts for big business? Who's gonna pay for the tax credit for stinking wealthy shareholders? Who's gonna bleed for Rutte III's handout policy? Those are the people who have to live on a small €1,200 per month. They need to pay more income tax, not less. These are families who go to the Aldi instead of Albert Heijn for their messages. These people need to cough up a VAT increase of EUR 2 billion, a common shopping tax. They're chronically ill. Every time they have to go to a doctor, they continue to look at a huge risk of €385 and also have to pay more premium. These people pay the price for Rutte III. These people are being abandoned by Rutte. These people are the victims of empty electoral promises from the coalition parties. These people feel nothing of the recovery of our economy, despite the Prime Minister's promises. Then the cabinet also chooses to shamelessly throw money over the bar. Instead of holding reserves in good times to invest in lesser times, this cabinet puts the Netherlands in a deficit of 3 billion euros in the long term, only to free up money for the parade horses to please the political leaders of the coalition parties. I can still hear Rutte say, "We're gonna take care of the pennies." Well, no. Already every Dutchman is born with a debt of almost €30,000 due to all the money our government had to borrow in the past. This cabinet is working hard to increase this amount even further. This cabinet is turning the next generation into even more red. The pain that the whole of the Netherlands has had to suffer to get the budget in order has actually been for nothing. Has this cabinet learned nothing from the crisis at all? Has this cabinet forgotten that five years ago the whole welfare state was almost stripped because there was no money left? Why is this cabinet taking the risk that future generations will have to suffer from austerity for years to come? The time of the money is back. Normally this is blamed on left-wing parties, but it is done by right with the Bible in hand. That's incomprehensible. Then we read in the reconstructions how this cabinet behaved when this scenario was conceived. That's a lot of sweet laughs. Chain smoke. An electronic cigarette of lure. Drinking whiskey. Scoundrelly and sexist jokes. Hugging. Kiss. Bring up items from VNO-NCW lobbying letters. Eat chocolates and then have the packing cleaned up by the room staff. Leak to the media. Don't inform the Chamber. What should people in the country think? What many Dutch people will think in any case, is that almost all the policy of this cabinet is simply old wine in new bags, especially when it comes to inclusive society. But that is not surprising, because the foreman of this cabinet has also said that he hates multicultural society. He hates multicultural society. That is why nothing, but nothing, is being done to combat racism and discrimination. It is true that this cabinet wants to increase the penalty for hate-sowing. I'd like to compliment you on that. Geert W. and his servants can look forward to heavier punishments for their racist barking, unless Grapperhaus is right and Wilders is actually insane. But apart from this one measure, the cabinet does nothing at all. The cabinet does not impose an increased penalty for discrimination, so that people who discriminate are not punished more severely. The cabinet does not introduce decoy applications, so we cannot check for discrimination in applications. The cabinet does not introduce a racism register, which means that we cannot register racists and can never have them working in the government again. The cabinet does not introduce an educational measure of discrimination, which means that we cannot teach people who discriminate that discrimination really cannot be done. The cabinet does not introduce quotas, so we cannot make the labour market more representative. And so I can go on with none and no. Due to the lack of ambition to tackle discrimination, this cabinet is simply fighting the cabinet 2.0. Despite all discrimination, Rutte, Buma, Pechtold and Segers call in choir: fight, Muhammad. What is also called is: future generation with a migrant background, hand in your second passport. All those German Dutch, Turkish Dutch, Belgian Dutch, Moroccan Dutch, Swedish Dutch or Dutch with their roots anywhere: they must give up part of their identity from this cabinet and hand in their second passport. It's like your passport says something about your contribution to society. It's like your passport determines your loyalty, your intentions and your skill. Mr President, this is a bullying measure for minorities in which Geert Wilders licks his fingers, a bullying measure that puts people with a second passport as deloyal dangers. If you don't know who the enemy is, choose the people with a second passport might be the thought. Why has this outdated discussion been going on for ten years, making people feel like they're not part of it? This is patsy politics with the support of D66. You stay Turk or you become Dutch, called Buma during the campaign. D66 is simply involved in pouring this xenophobic agenda and Geert's ideas into policy. And then there's the other missed opportunity. What an incredibly missed chance that this cabinet is still talking about integration and not about mutual acceptance. Now get used to it, I'd like to say to the cabinet. Get used to the fact that all those people with a migrant background who have lived here for generations are long past integration. They contribute fully to society, they have a job or study, but over and over again they are placed along the ever higher measuring bar of integration, while they are born and raised here. This is a direct consequence of the fact that old politics continue to talk about the outdated concept of integration. Speaking in terms of integration creates divisions between the non-integrated, which is not part of society and the well-integrated, which is part of society. Dividement between people who constantly have to prove themselves and people who are an unconditional part of society. Dividement between first-class and second-class citizens. "Breakly integrated" is increasingly being said about people nowadays. But what exactly is that? When is someone finally integrated in the eyes of this cabinet? How many hoops does one have to jump to be accepted by Rutte and his own as a full Dutchman? DENK therefore continues to repeat the call. Everyone who is Dutch is an unconditional part of society. Everyone who is Dutch must subscribe to our rule of law and the Constitution. And anyone who is Dutch, who is related within the limits of the law, must be accepted. Integration applies to newcomers, not to people who have lived here for generations. These people do not need to be integrated, these people need to be accepted. Start with acceptance thinking and stop with the old integration thinking. It is also hypocritical that integration during the election campaign was a dominant theme, but that nothing fundamental changes in the end. You can only conclude that VVD and CDA see integration and minorities as an electoral earning model to take seats with during the elections, but care very little after the elections. With their tough and xenophobic electoral rhetoric they have taken a piece of grain from Geert's electorate, but with this these parties legalize xenophobia and let the abdomen explode. We at DENK find this extremely regrettable. What is also wrong is that this cabinet has an extremely scary view of society. It approaches society as a kind of museum, a place where things from the past are displayed and need to be dusted constantly. A place that is not defined by the potential of the future and by change, but by the past. The museum masters Rutte, Pechtold, Buma and Segers cling to the past. Kids need to jam the Wilhelmus. Kids have to go to the Rijksmuseum. Children should be proud of our history, proud of our language, proud of our values and proud of our flag. As if you can impose pride! I'm proud of the Netherlands, too. I am proud of our Constitution, but not because Rutte and his friends force it on me. I am proud of the fact that the Netherlands is always changeable, proud of the fact that our society is not a decade the same. I am proud that we find our strength in diversity and not in clinging to symbols created by politicians. As far as DENK is concerned, we stop thinking about the museum. The Netherlands is not a museum, the Netherlands is an open society that is constantly changing and where people from different backgrounds come together, making the Netherlands what it is: an addition of 17 million Dutch. That is the power of diversity and we must be proud of it. This pride in the power of diversity is especially needed in this cabinet. He's not here right now, but I'm thinking of the words of our CDA Deputy Prime Minister Hugo de Jonge. I know him longer than today and it is striking how quickly he has adapted to the square kilometres of The Hague. Opposite the cameras of the NOS he indicated that this is a diverse team with people with different backgrounds. It is amazing how quickly you must have forgotten Rotterdam. That is the diverse city where people from different backgrounds live and work. This cabinet is really anything but diverse. Look at them. In any case, they are more men than women and I see only one colour: this cabinet is white, this cabinet is white. The lack of diversity indicates poverty within the VVD. And although CDA and ChristianUnion do not go free, DENK mainly looks critically at D66. That is the party that you might still have the hope that Pechtold would ensure that this cabinet would be a reflection of society. Nothing could be further from the truth. Again, people don't recognize themselves in their own cabinet. People are allowed to talk, but not to decide. Prime Minister Rutte indicates that diversity has been sought, but that quality has been chosen. In fact, he says that the choice of diversity is at the expense of quality. Mr. Rutte, that's not cool, that's not normal. That is an argument that might be convincing in 1967, in your year of birth, but it is now 2017. In 2017, 50 years later, that argument no longer applies. It is an achievement of the highest category that Rutte also uses exactly the same argument in his third attempt at formation and he projects that argument on the whole society. This man just doesn't want to be the prime minister of all the Dutch. This man has electoral fear of Geert Wilders and his PVV, and has no regard for his role as prime minister. He showed this before the elections when it was about Muhammad, who, despite all the discrimination, had to fight hard. People with a migrant background who do not behave should not be treated like all other Dutch people. No, they have to go to their country of origin. Act normal or leave, he says in a letter in the AD to once again only people with a migrant background. At the presentation of the coalition chord he said to stand up for the ordinary and normal Dutchman. Then you wonder who these unusual and abnormal Dutch people are. Mr. Chairman. With these statements, the Prime Minister has contributed to divisions in society, while he should connect and DENK blames him. Mr Rutte shows that he is not in contact with everyday reality and society. Because the daily reality is that we have people here in the Netherlands with a migrant background who are just as much Dutcher as Mark of Geert. They don't deserve to get "pleasure" thrown at their heads. They do not deserve to hear "do normal or go away" from a prime minister, purely because of their origins. They deserve to be treated just as much as any other Dutchman. Mr. Chairman. Yet we have hope. Someone is never too old to learn and never too young to change. Not even you, Mr. Rutte. Perhaps one day you will see that our society has changed and that it will always change, that Muhammad, Christien, Henk and Fatima live together day in, day out, sit together in class, be colleagues. That they are far beyond the discussions on integration. That origin does not mean that you can only be conditional in the Netherlands, but that every Dutchman is entitled to a place in our country. That diversity is a strength for our society and enriches us and is not something to be afraid of. That we should not hold on to symbols, but to each other. That passports and looks don't determine what your contribution to society is, but your behavior. Mr. Chairman. We are fighting for a future that is more beautiful than our past. Perhaps that is with you, but also without you we as DENK will continue this fight for a fairer and fairer Netherlands, for mutual acceptance, for justice and for equality. Because nobody is more Dutch than anyone else and the Netherlands is all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u497	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u498	Mr. Chairman. If we are to zoom out, if we are not blindly staring at the short term, at percentage points and at day-to-day changes here in The Hague, when we are trying for a moment to set ourselves on a timeline in a perspective in which we do not see the current budget, or even the next elections, but instead look at a period of 40 to 50 years if we look at the period from the 1960s, 70 to the present, and from now until the 2060s to 2070s, then we cannot escape a deeply oppressive feeling of decay. Our ethical, aesthetic and political strength has fallen prey to an extreme deterioration process. The country we had, the culture we had, our national pride, but also the safety in the streets, the good schools, the cosiness and the innocence, our democracy, we lost them. Two-earners with children can barely make ends meet, not to mention earners with children. The Brussels regulatory framework reduces SMEs and makes it impossible for them to work. Those who graduate can often hardly spell and calculate, or tell anything about patriotic history. Two thirds of the reports are immediately dismissed by the police and the D.A. The resolution rate of crimes is alarmingly low. Older people's care has fallen into freefall and care premiums are rising. Our money disappears via the dramatic euro coin to southern Europe and to the financing of the continuing mass immigration. Where has our freedom gone? Only once, in modern European history, the referendum was abolished after it had been introduced, namely in the GDR. The Communist political office was afraid of the opinion of the people. A 1984 feeling creeps you out. George Orwell possessed predictive abilities. Indeed, if the tow law is pressed by it, we will soon all be monitored and spied on by the government. I would like to draw attention to this broad line today. This downward line. The enormous decline of our civilization. Our country is being sold out. It's too slow to lead to panic or rebellion, but too fast, too compelling not to worry very much. Sometimes it seems like we're living in the afterlife, the injury time of what was first our great, proud nation. Our thriving European culture, which touched and enchanted all the corners of the world. And as we stand here deliberating, every hour and every day unheard of numbers from all over the world are now coming to us to force themselves on us. Not to accept our culture, to humblely adhere to our way of life and our achievements. Unfortunately, it's all too often to settle theirs here. This cabinet lacks the strength in every respect to bring about the European Renaissance that is needed. There's a winter coming. Tough times await us. After the longest formation in history we see four tired parties who do not have enough unity and stamina to cope with the storm that awaits us. Fortunately, this cabinet will not last very long. In any event, the FvD will ensure that the cabinet loses its majority in the First Chamber after the 2019 provincial state elections. Because Mark Rutte counts the days until he can succeed Juncker or Tusk in Brussels, we may be able to expect new elections, so that the Netherlands can opt for real changes. Because, let's face it, a lot of voters have been fooled again. A lot of voters think, "What have I done?" Due to a beaten-up riot in Rotterdam, with the usual VVD-gepopiejopie, and of course due to the overwhelming support of the tax-funded public service broadcasting system, the party cartel has managed to secure just enough votes. How else could it be? Where are the opportunities to make our land, our soil fertile again, and to bring the old roots of our civilization back to fruition? That question, exactly that question, we hear every day in the halls, on the mail, on Facebook. We hear it from the hundreds of people who use our switching service, and those are more and more former VVDs, CDAs and D66s. Yes, the vitality of our nation is unbroken, but a lot of people are wondering how things can be different. Do they dare to hope for improvement, or do they have to give up, hang their heads, bow down to our decay? Each healing process begins with the correct diagnosis. Why do things in the Netherlands go wrong? Why have we had mass immigration for years, when the majority of the Netherlands do not want it? Why are we in the hopeless euro, which nobody was waiting for? Why did billions go to Greece when nobody wanted to? Why can't we control the whining bureaucracy in care? All these problems are ultimately caused by the fact that, to quote Eberhard van der Laan, our political system has come to the end of its life cycle. The political party as a recruitment mechanism for administrative talent no longer functions. The electorate's will no longer penetrates politics. Therefore, the influence of the electorate must be seriously increased. This is what the Forum for Democracy wants to do by introducing binding referendums such as in Switzerland; the only way to effectively break the far too great influence of political parties. They know that at CDA, VVD and D66. That is why they are so afraid of the referendum. What else needs to be done to stop the decline of the Netherlands? First of all, immigration. The CBS calculated that the size of the Dutch population this year, in the first nine months so far, already increased by 81,000 people. Those who study the figures see that the Dutch population is actually shrinking. It only grows through immigration. In addition, in 2016, 31% of the newly born children were immigrant. The CBS also noted that 63% of the people in the assistance, 62% of the prisoners, 48% of the suspects in crime and 36% of the unemployed are immigrants. The House of Representatives writes out dozens of new researches every month, but an investigation on the total cost of this insane immigration experiment must not take place. In fact, the consequences and costs are deliberately covered with new definitions, such as "people with a migration background." The Forum for Democracy wants to introduce the Australian immigration model as soon as possible: The Netherlands only welcomes immigrants who can add something to our society. We want people who bring something, not people who just come for something. Through the Dutch Protection Act, also called the "Tolerance Act," we want to force mosques and Islamic schools to join our way of life. In doing so, we must also criminalise illegality as soon as possible and introduce border controls. FvD has tabled several motions on this subject, but the party cartel refuses to take concrete steps to tackle illegality effectively. Police detection rates need to be raised and the revolving door crime must now be tackled as well. A much stricter immigration and integration policy, which is already good for education, must be combined with a drastic improvement in our education. We are looking at countries such as Finland and Singapore, which have been at the top of the list of best primary education for years. We want more respect for the profession of teacher and also more reward, but at the same time the quality of the teachers' corps needs to be raised by stricter selection on quality. From teachers who don't perform, we say goodbye. The Forum for Democracy aims to reduce the bureaucracy of care by setting specific savings targets for the directors of health insurance companies and healthcare providers. If they don't, we'll say goodbye to them and we'll look for drivers who do know how to do this. It's not that hard. Set concrete targets and pay people for it. Then the care premiums can go down instead of rising by €300 to €1,600 per year, as Rutte wants. All the proposals I have just mentioned are contrary to the culture that has grown in Dutch politics, in which problems are caught in committees, in consultation circuits, project groups, evaluations and other polders. And where loyalty to the party is more important than quality. There is plenty of talent in the Netherlands, but it does not rise because the parties monopolize all appointments. In order to restore dynamism to the economy, we need to give more space to the hard-working people in this country. Under Rutte II, collective burden pressures have increased to almost 40%. The government's share of our economy has grown twice as fast under Rutte as our purchasing power. In short, Mark Rutte is the most successful PvdA man of all time. Never before has there been so much money pumped around in the Netherlands through the government as under Mark Rutte. What is needed now, after the destructive economic policy of Rutte and Dijsselbloem, is a significant increase in the disposable income of working Dutch people and a strong simplification of the tax system with a substantial tax-free foot for everyone. Some kind of basic income, but you have to work for it. I could mention so many more points. A military in Defense who takes good care of our boys and girls who risk their lives for the defense of our country. Restoration of the NPO. Stop it. Stop it. Stop it. Stop it. Stop it. From the European Union. Our party is the party of love. We do this because we have continued to love this country, to love it so much, despite all that it has been done to by politicians without devotion to its history, to its wishes, to its "no" at referendums, to its integrity. We're not gonna abandon this country. We give it our very best powers because we know that we are the last generation that can still turn the tide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u499	Thank you. This was the first term of office. I thank the MPs, the Prime Minister, his cabinet and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-01-tweedekamer-6.u500	Tomorrow at 10.30 a.m., the Prime Minister will answer the questions asked and answer them.
