ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	No, no... I'm suspending the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	We shall continue with oral Question Time. I think we have plenty of places to demonstrate. So out of respect for other people who are following this debate and sitting in the public gallery to hear what is going on in the Chamber, I would say: it is fine to demonstrate, but that can also be done at the Square. I call Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Your kid's missing. Seems like one of the worst things that can happen to you as a parent. And then, of course, you hope that the police will do everything in their power to help you find that child again. That is exactly why we have been calling for attention here in the Chamber for a number of years to put the expertise and capacity of the police in order. Around 2011, former Minister Opstelten also made very firm promises about this. There had to be sufficient capacity and expertise to act quickly in those first critical minutes, hours of missing persons, when the signal is that there is something more going on than a temporary missing or a runaway child. Now it appears that this is not the case. The national police also recognizes this in response to written questions from RTL. That can't really be true! My first question to the Minister is: does the Minister recognise himself in this RTL Newsitem? Does the Minister recognize himself in the answers of the national police? Are these answers coordinated with him? Another important question is, of course, what is the Minister going to do about this? How are we going to ensure that sufficient capacity and, above all, sufficient expertise is available 24 hours a day? In the event of an emergency, every minute counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik refers to RTL News' article, which is based on answers to questions asked to the national police about missing persons. Like Mrs Kuik, I was shocked when I saw those answers, because that is the picture of absenteeism and procedures that are not yet running as they should. With Mrs Kuik, I believe that it is very important that, when there is a missing person, a rapid assessment is made of what action is required. Nationally, the police get about 40,000 reports of missing persons a year. It is therefore necessary to assess quickly what action is needed and when the most serious means, such as an AMBER Alert, need to be deployed. Such a trade-off takes place first by police region. There are ten police regions. Each police region has a specialist missing persons. It then switches with that rural agency that Mrs. Kuiken refers to. I understand from the Chief Constable that he too, in response to these reports, feels that we should look again at the humanisation of missing persons and that, where there is cause for concern, we should also take swift action. I intend to start this process as soon as possible and will most likely inform the Chamber shortly after the summer of the steps taken in response to these reports. Once again, I really think that if there are missing persons and there are serious concerns about them, measures should be taken in time and the organisation should be in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister for this commitment. I note that it is not just about capturing the capacity, which has now been lost as a result of illness, but also, and above all, the explicit request for expertise to be laid down there. There are very few people in the Netherlands who have the expertise at all to assess this when there is an urgent missing person. I would like to make a few more comments on the way the Minister thinks that he should fill in that expertise. I had another question for the Minister. Is it also recorded in how many cases a subsequent error of assessment has been made? Again, people work in the police and people can make mistakes. However, is an ex post record recorded when an incorrect assessment has been made and is it also being evaluated? I'm making a comparison with a hospital or a doctor's office. If there are incidents that cause someone to die, for example, when the indication was not there, this will be evaluated. Does this happen in the same way at the National Bureau of Missing Persons? I think that's crucial. I'm gonna ask the Minister another question. It is good that there is now a commitment on expertise and capacity, but is it not also important to examine independently how the agency works and what is actually necessary to manage this with sufficient capacity and expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mrs. Kuik asks first of all about the expertise. The reason for having ten regional experts and a national agency is indeed that it can properly assess and follow up reports of missing persons demands expertise. I've already indicated that there are about 40,000 reports a year. They range from balorous teenagers to very serious reports. It therefore calls for expertise and professionalism in order to give it a proper follow-up. You shouldn't think about sending out 40,000 AMBER Alerts a year. Then such a tool loses its power. Part of ensuring quality is a follow-up to the notifications. One of the things I'm curious about is I'm going to go into that in the letter I just promised, which is the way that quality measurement takes place. I wouldn't have that done in an external investigation on the basis of this report. That would be a bit of a vote of no confidence towards the police. The signal's serious. The chief of police has indicated with my full support to pick it up now. I'll let the Chamber know about that. I believe that this should first be provided with the right answers in one's own organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is good that the Minister is committed to adding quality measurement. I also get signals that there is little trust from the corps themselves in the National Bureau of Missing Persons. That also means that the alignment between these two institutions is not going well. So I would also like the Minister to include this in his quality measurement to ensure that things are going well. I'm rounding up. We have asked questions together with Mr D66's colleague. I'm sure he'll ask some specific questions. It is good that there is now a commitment, it is good that this letter comes shortly after the summer. We can then assess whether this independent research is necessary, but we cannot continue on the old ground. We've been five years. The case is too important. Missing children, it'll only be your own child. So let's really take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	The report on internal communication was not known to me, but it makes sense to take that point when we are looking at the working methods of the agency and regional specialists anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	I find the Minister's answer that he wants to do something about this very gratifying. However, I am also a little surprised that it seems like he didn't know anything about this until RTL reported on it. As a result, I have the question as to why the police already knew that there was a shortage here and that they have not yet discussed it with the Minister. How does the Minister point this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	It is not a matter of state law whether or not an official tells the minister anything. Everything that is done, said or written under the responsibility of the Minister falls under his constitutional responsibility. The moment a message reaches me, I decide if I want to take action. In this case, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	This is the second supplementary question, Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	That's right, Mr. Chairman. It does not yet call for a great deal of confidence that there is apparently not enough knowledge to judge for yourself whether an agency that is so important in missing children has the right human strength to function properly. My question to the Minister is how much human power he believes is needed in order for this agency to be able to really do all its tasks. I am talking not only about the acute missing persons, but also about creating profiles and learning what happened in other missing persons. So how much human strength does he think it takes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	That would be careless to start guessing on the spot now, because that's what it's going to be like to see how much human power is needed. We just found out that a signal is coming out from an important organization. I'll report to the Chief Constable that that signal is so serious that we're investigating exactly what's going on there. Then we report to the Chamber what measures we take. Of course, this includes Mrs Buitenweg's question, but it would be really careless to answer it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	My question is a little in line with Mrs Buitenweg's question, which I find urgent on this subject. In May 2016, the CDA Group asked questions about legislation to enable the identification of missing children's phones, without suspicion of a criminal offence. We would very much like to hear about this. It is a related subject, which we consider very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	That's a logical question. In the short term, I will give the bill special means of searching urgently missing persons in consultation. The purpose of this law is to make it possible for certain means of detection to also be used in urgent missing persons, for example the survey where a telephone has been or where ATM payments have been made. These powers are now reserved for criminal law, for the prosecution of serious crimes. The fact that the bill will soon be in consultation means that I hope that it can also go to the Chamber after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	I thank the Minister for the further commitment. I'm glad to see that he too is concerned about the coverage. As far as I am concerned, one element remains underexplored, namely the quality of the reports made by the regional police to the national agency. I read in RTL's research that there are concerns about this too, that it is sometimes little concrete and that information is lacking. Can the Minister indicate whether he shares this concern and whether he will also take this point with him in his investigations to what could be better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	I noticed that part too. The instruction is to make the notifications to the Central Bureau orally as much as possible. The test of whether the notification is very worrying, namely, generally requires an explanation. I understand from RTL's news report that this would often happen by e-mail. That part of the method of working, therefore, I come to the quality section to which Mrs Kuik asked understandably, as far as I am concerned, is also part of the research. As I have said, I shall come back to that shortly after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	I think it's very good that that letter is coming. I do have some specific technical questions. The request is therefore whether we can pass on a number of further questions via the committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	That's up to you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yeah, I know. I would ask the Minister to understand that, so that these questions can be included in the letter coming shortly after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes. If I can get those questions as soon as possible, we can get to work on them as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you. We shall now proceed to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
