ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, De Telegraaf reported that mail company Sandd wants to compete with PostNL in the private postal market. Among other things, the notice stated that the stamp price would fall from €0.78 to €0.55 in the case of services provided by Sandd. If this is true, the consumer is now paying far too much and he is simply the victim. That is the reason for the CDA to ask the Minister for clarification today. I therefore ask him the following questions. Is it true that Sandd presented a plan to the Ministry in November 2016 on the so-called universal postal service law, the UPD? Why hasn't it been reported to the Chamber that Sandd planted this plan with the minister? Are the statements made in the notice that the current stamp price is artificially too high? Is Sandd's plan real that the stamp price in the case of service will fall from €0.78 to €0.55? Can the Minister state whether Sandd's plan is based on a decent collective agreement, a contract of employment and a pension provision and that they are secured for all employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Madam President. We know that the Netherlands is a very innovative competitive economy that is also highly digitised. This means that we also experience the disadvantages of this. It's mostly in the mail market. Where people are digital, much less is written and put a stamp on it in the mailbox. This means that there is a significant decline in turnover, a significant decline in volume in the postal market. It's been going on for years. This will continue to be strengthened, and this will continue in the years to come. I have therefore announced that I will look into this whole development in the postal market and come to the Chamber with the analysis. I hope to come up with that analysis this week, maybe next week. It sets out exactly what the developments are and also sets out the policy questions that need to be answered. I can't answer those policy questions myself anymore. I'm a missionary. It is up to my successor, to the Lower House and to the Upper House to draw conclusions. I can analyze the whole case and refer it to the Chamber. I did that first; I'm going to do that second one very soon. In this analysis of the postal market, the affordability of the UPD is one of the main concerns. I'll outline the options how you can look at that affordability and what you could do to contribute to it in the future. Sandd's offer will be taken into account. I'm getting a lot of input, including from Sandd. Mrs Van den Berg mentioned a plan presented by Sandd. We have all this input involved in the analysis and we are also involving it in the policy options. We are going to refer this to the Chamber so that she can take note of it and discuss it with my successor. Mrs Van den Berg wondered whether the stamp price is currently far too high. That is not the case. All elements that are part of the stamp price are controlled by the ACM to verify that they comply with the rules. A legal ceiling has also been set for the permitted profit, and it does not go beyond that. Ms Van den Berg asked whether the decline from €0.78 to €0.55 was real. Depends on how you look at it. In the long run, the number of mailboxes and outlets in the future visions of Sandd and PostNL will be the same, but in the short term Sandd will be heavily below them, with fewer mailboxes and fewer sales points, leading to lower costs. Moreover, staff costs are 15% lower than those of PostNL, and I do not think PostNL is that high. You can see that this lower price is partly paid by the staff. These are all elements that we take into account in this analysis and which we will present in the policy options we will outline, in order to enable the Chamber to discuss this with my successor and to come to conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	As a result, I would like to ask the Minister two more questions. He says Sandd has some other assumptions about staff costs and the number of mailboxes. Sandd's report states that PostNL is based on a number of fictions relating to employees and pension obligations. Can the Minister give a reflection on that? The minister gave an indication of how Sandd wants to deal with the current number of mailboxes and the service to the citizen. Can he elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is true that PostNL naturally takes into account pension obligations and also the legal provision for the number of employees with a contract of employment that one must have. This is laid down by law at 80% and they comply with it. Furthermore, they have made clear all the costs they incur and which ultimately lead to that stamp price. They are submitted in detail to ACM, who checks that and whether or not they agree with the stamp price that came out. That is currently a stamp price of €0.78. I cannot say exactly what is happening now, how many mailboxes and how many outlets there are less at Sandd at the beginning, because I do not have that ready, but in order to achieve a lower price they have to reduce the costs at the beginning. This goes partly through the staff and partly through the service to those who want to use the mail. I don't disqualify it with that. I think it's very good that Sandd is enthusiastic and would like to take care of the UPD. We take that seriously. We are also looking very closely at what they are offering, and we are comparing this with the legal provisions and the discussions we have had in the Chamber on the position of staff and the desirability of having staff as far as possible with an employment contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	The only point on which I would like further clarification is the fictions that are being taken. Is a piece of the business market indirectly funded by the letter market by crosspollination?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	That's an important part. ACM is very careful to prevent false competition. That is indeed an important point. That's what the independent supervisor is for. Any information the independent supervisor wants, he can get. We tightened the rules six months ago, so that ACM can get everything she wants in detail. If there are certain assumptions PostNL assumes, they should also make it acceptable to ACM. Only if ACM checks that, can it then be passed on in the stamp price.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr. Chairman. It is quite understandable that the Minister says that the subject in itself is controversial and he cannot anticipate the policy choices of the next cabinet, but this publication raises a number of questions. How is it that this plan has been in place since November, when the stamp price is rising rapidly, and we are only hearing about it now? How come this has been on the shelf for so long at the Ministry? Mrs. Van den Berg just asked about these fictions. According to Sandd, the labour costs in the business market are shifted to the UPD by PostNL, which does have a competitor there, in order to increase the stamp price. The Minister has just acknowledged that this is happening. How does he feel about shifting business costs in this way, which gives PostNL a competitive advantage in the business market?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	If you have a large company with multiple parts, you can of course use certain parts of that company for different purposes. You can use such a part for the postal market or for the parcel market, but that must all be real, no more and no less than real. This should also make that company understandable for ACM, which we have appointed for this purpose. We have set the rules and ACM must ensure that those rules are complied with. That's what ACM does. I can assure the Chamber that she is more than on top of it at PostNL. Now the plan that's been with us since November. There's a lot of us that isn't all reported to the Chamber immediately. We have our responsibilities as day-to-day management, the Chamber has the responsibility to control us. I had a discussion with Mr Paternotte's predecessors about what the postal market looks like and what the developments are. There's been a situation where Sandd really had to be helped by us. We really had to help that company to get through a difficult period, and we had to take into account its interests. We did. There has also been a period in which postal operators have been talking to each other. So there have been all kinds of developments. Now there is another offer from Sandd, which also wants to take care of the UPD (universal postal service). We all took this into account in the analysis of the postal market that I was just talking about. That is what we are going to get together with all the other relevant developments. We will then present that whole to the Chamber, with the corresponding policy questions, so that the Chamber can go on with it. It's not like we're gonna leave anything on the shelf. If we had all this tendency and if those involved were to believe that the Chamber should know about it, they would really not wait from November to July to give that information to the Chamber. Then that can happen in two days. So I think we have dealt with suggestions from various sides, including Sandd, in a very sensible way, in the preparation of an analysis intended for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	I would like to go on about the shift in labour costs from business to the private market. The Minister said that we have a beautiful, competitive economy. Of course, there is no competition from the 24-hour mail market, because it is a monopoly for PostNL. Then how does the Minister assess that we are making the rules and that the ACM is indeed maintaining them, but that these rules allow labour costs to be shifted from a market where there is competition to a market where there is no competition? What exactly is the advantage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr Paternotte is making a mistake. It's not like there's a monopoly at the 24-hour station. There is a universal postal service dedicated to a company that could also be entrusted to another company, but anyone can do what they want. The point is that we want to ensure for everyone in the country that mail can also be put in a mailbox which is then delivered and sent to the right address. So there is an obligation on PostNL, but others are allowed to do whatever they want on the market. Now Sandd says he wants that obligation. That gives this company a strong position. I can imagine that, I am pleased with that ambition. That is what we will be involved in the analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	What a lot of people don't understand is that the Minister says that even the post is getting less and less, while more and more companies and delivery workers are cycling through the same street to deliver that mail. This is because there is competition on working conditions, by supposedly having to compete over the back of the delivery staff. Does the Minister agree with the SP, when he looks at the future of the postal market, that it is important that everyone who is working within that sector should also simply get a decent contract with decent working conditions and with a decent wage, instead of reducing real jobs to side jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Let us welcome this competition and that market forces in the Netherlands. As a result, we have a very competitive economy and can export to the whole world. We have high prosperity and high employment, and things are going better here than in the surrounding countries. That's what we owe it. We have already laid down in the law that 80% of the employees involved in the postal service must have a contract of employment. I have stipulated in a General Measure of Management that it should start in April of this year, that is to say three months ago. In its wisdom, the Chamber has decided to declare that controversial and not to treat this with me. That date of April 1st has already passed. This means that the legal provision has been in force since 1 January this year. This means that 80% of the postal operators must be employed by the company concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. Then we came to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
