ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Driving under the influence of drink or drugs or by red driving and tearing through a residential neighborhood by 80 kilometers is not normal. That's what I think, and fortunately most people think. That is why it is important that we should not only be able to pick up traffic cocks, but also tackle criminal law. In a major interview in De Telegraaf last Saturday, Counselor Buruma stated that there are large differences between the penalties demanded by the Public Prosecutor and the penalties actually imposed by the judge. That is also reflected in the figures. Research shows that 65% of all victims of road traffic offences feel that penalties have been imposed too low. Two things are said in the interview. First of all, it is said that it can only be changed if the law is amended. Secondly, the Public Prosecutor's Office must raise fewer false expectations. That's actually the world upside down. This gives rise to the suggestion that the judges in the Netherlands are forced to impose lower penalties or no more punishment at all, because in his demand recklessness is too often used to justify the penalty requirement, while there is simply reckless driving. It's about people who knowingly and knowingly put others in danger. We see that the Public Prosecutor's Office is doing its best to match the expectations we have expressed here with each other by drafting the Road Traffic Act, which is to be able to tackle seriously traffic cocksuckers, people who risk others knowingly and knowingly over and over again. This does not do justice to the sense of justice, nor to the purpose and desire of the legislator. Can the Minister state what's going on? Should we amend the law to ensure that there are actually stricter penalties and, if so, when can we expect such an adjustment? Or is there something else going on? Could the Minister indicate what should be done in that case? What action has the Minister taken or is he still able to take to ensure that we can actually deal with these people, these traffic cocksuckers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There can be no misunderstanding that serious road traffic offences must be dealt with strictly. Mr Buruma's signal was not the first signal about possible uncertainties in the law. That was the reason for my predecessor to ask the WODC to investigate the way in which penalties are imposed in the event of serious traffic offences. That research is wide-ranging. It covers both the claim and the actual imposition of penalties as well as the circumstances which form the basis for the assessment of the case before the courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is also what Mrs Visser's question is about. Explicitly, the WODC also considers whether there are legal bottlenecks, or whether the wording of the law may not be clear enough. The research will be completed this spring. On the basis of the results, I will sit down with the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary, including the Supreme Court, Mr Buruma's employer. If the investigation and the discussion that follows give rise to amendment of the law, because it should be clarified, then I will certainly make a proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u3	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. We know about the investigation of the WODC, but I would like to continue with Mr Buruma's statement that the law simply has to be different. Does the Minister recognise this noise from Mr Buruma, who clearly indicates that the law simply needs to be amended? Does the Minister recognise the statement that the Public Prosecutor should raise fewer false expectations? This actually says that judges can't do otherwise, whereas according to the VVD, the Public Prosecutor's Office is simply doing his job to deal with people who knowingly endanger others on the road, traffic hoods. When I hear that we are going to wait for the WODC research and think about the duration of legal pathways, we are thus two years ahead. As far as the VVD is concerned, we should be able to deal with people like this and we should be able to do so sooner. What measures can the Minister take at the moment? Is he willing to talk to the judiciary, but also to the Public Prosecutor's Office, to see how the work to deal with traffic cocksuckers can be improved at the moment? It is not only a question of criminal law, but also of enforcement. How do we ensure that we can arrest such people? Signals came out about a reduced number of alcohol controls. Can the Minister comment on how we can strengthen the enforcement at the front so that we can just tackle drink and drug drivers, traffic cocksuckers, whatever you want to call them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u4	The points mentioned by Mr Buruma are exactly on the table at the WODC. Does the law need to be changed? Does the way the D.A.'s office handles this need to be adjusted? That's happening fast. I've already indicated that the investigation will be here this spring. So far, I have managed to come to legislation in a much shorter time than two years with the Chamber, which also plays a part in this. But then we must ensure that this legislation also solves this problem. When the law was made fifteen years ago, I suppose it was also thought that he would help. So now he's gotta be really good. I feel all the urgency that Mrs Visser feels, so two years seems to me a long time. Mrs Visser also referred to traffic enforcement and probably referred to last week's report on traffic fikes. The police have indicated that the classic traffic trap is no longer effective, because people warn each other via Twitter or Facebook. That is why the police have carried out other individual checks. They won't be reflected in the readings. Traffic figs are much easier to record than individual measurements. Again, the police, like me, consider the approach to alcohol in traffic to be a top priority. It's really unacceptable for people with a sip to get behind the wheel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u5	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you. I know the minister as a ruler who takes less than two years to bring a bill to the Chamber. We have noticed this particularly on the housing file, and I am now tasting that ambition. I call on the Minister to do this as soon as possible. I also welcome the commitment that alcohol in traffic is and remains a priority for both the police and the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u7	It is very nice that the VVD now clearly says that this is a priority. I hear the Minister say the same on behalf of the cabinet. The fact is that the last four years have mainly focused on mass flashes on the A2 to fill the state greenhouse, while the specific search for the traffic shit has not happened. What the Minister is now promising to investigate is fine, but the question of the CDA is: what can we do now, immediately, to switch from the mass flashes to fill the state cash, to the specific search of the traffic shit? We could start with that by now. What can the Minister do about it now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u8	The police have just indicated that they are doing so, but that, because they have concluded that the old method of covens is no longer working, they have switched to smarter, more modern controls. It would be very strange for us here from The Hague to say to the cop on the street: we do not share your conclusion; although you find that the covens are no longer working, we think you should start organizing the covens. When people on the streets say that the cops are no longer working and that they are therefore going to take a different approach, with the same priority of tackling alcohol abuse in traffic, I think it is crucial that they have the space to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have an additional comment, because D66 finds it horrifying when so many victims feel that they are being failed. We also find it appalling when judges have to point out that something that we as legislators have devised is actually not working properly. I'd like to make a final check on the VVD deployment. Is it true that the Minister says that proper research is being carried out on exactly what is going on before measures are taken which may again hinder the achievement of good judgements? Is it true that he advocated care and would like to take the time before coming up with new legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-4.u10	Be careful, for sure, the investigation is already taking place, but I'm in a hurry. That is what I said to Mrs Visser. Hence my ambition not only to have done the research before the summer, but also to have turned the case law, the Supreme Court and the Public Prosecutor's Office into concrete actions with the parties concerned. If that requires a change of law in the Chamber, I'm in a hurry to do the same.
