ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I call Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u2	It's good to see you again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u3	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. After testing several long-range missiles, including a rocket fired over Japan, last Sunday there was once again a careless insult to the international community by North Korea: a nuclear test, the sixth and apparently the heaviest ever. It is very dangerous and rightly condemned by the entire international community. It is dangerous, because North Korea's misconduct can easily lead to accidents that we cannot overlook. It also contributes to the arms race in the region, increasing the risk of war. The question is how the international community should respond to the gross violations of all kinds of United Nations Security Council resolutions. The Americans leave no doubt that military action is being seriously considered. In spite of a ban laid down in the UN Charter, President Trump is in danger of military action, while every military specialist knows that military intervention would unleash a disaster. There is also a call for sanctions against the country, which is very isolated. That may be necessary, but at the same time we must not close our eyes to the suffering of the people of North Korea. It is certainly not imaginary that further economic sanctions will hit the civilian population hard. That's undesirable. As far as the SP is concerned, it is clear that there is no military solution to this issue, but that the question is what can be done about diplomacy. Relevant here is the Chinese-Russian proposal in which North Korea restricts the nuclear programme and the US reduces its military presence in South Korea. Kim Jong-un may be crazy, but he's not involved in suicide, he's more concerned with body-preservation. I'd like to ask the Minister two questions. He has already clearly condemned this attack, but does he also firmly reject military action against North Korea? Does the Minister share the view of the SP that diplomatic proposals should be seriously considered, for example China's and Russia's proposal? Is he prepared to raise that this week through the Foreign Affairs Council in Gymnich?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u6	Madam President. The Dutch Government is, of course, very concerned about the new nuclear test in North Korea. We immediately condemned that Sunday in the strongest possible terms. I think Mrs Karabulut is right. It is a very serious fact, a provocation, not only for the region, but also for the entire international community. That requires an answer as united as possible. I think that's very essential. It is good that the UN Security Council has also strongly condemned the trial. The Netherlands supports the Security Council in its efforts to reach a peaceful solution. Missile launches and nuclear tests are unacceptable and should be systematically condemned. That is important, because the international community does not allow this practice to become the new normal. What can we do about it? That is, of course, the essence of Mrs Karabulut's question. Let me begin by saying that there is indeed no military solution to this conflict. That is why everything must now be focused on preventing military escalation and miscalculation. That does not mean that there are no military capabilities. You know that there is a discussion about installing defensive measures in South Korea and in Japan for the defence of territory. There is also a whole debate about deterrent as an instrument. I do not want to go into that at the moment. The most important thing is that we, as an international community, act together. This will have to be done through an intelligent combination of pressure and dialogue. This means that the Netherlands is in favour of new sanctions. We are thinking of oil, textile products and the maritime industry. Next week's discussion will be on the agenda of the UN Security Council. I also understand Mrs Karabulut's comments. There is always a humanitarian aspect to the instrument of sanctions. Let there be no doubt about that. At the same time, it is important to realise that North Korea's economic links with the finances it receives to continue this nuclear weapons programme are unprecedented. Global sanctions are our preferred ones because they are the most effective ones. However, this is often the lowest common denominator in the UN Security Council. Let me now turn to the comments on dialogue. That too is important. I believe that it should be an intelligent combination of pressure and dialogue and that the consensus of the international community will be at stake in the coming days. So I do not want to rule out sanctions. On the contrary. I think that is what we should do. I'll tell you right away it's not a panacea. We will also have to look at the possibilities for dialogue. I would point out, however, that there has been a lot of dialogue with North Korea in the past. Every time, unfortunately, this has not led to any results. I always think, however, that this kind of thing, in which international peace and security are at stake in such a serious way, must be taken into account. I would therefore like to reply by saying that there is indeed no military solution to this conflict and we must now focus everything on pressure and dialogue and on preventing military escalation and miscalculation. The Dutch Government will make an active commitment to this. We also asked for that meeting tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in Brussels. The Netherlands, together with Germany, already discussed a more active role for Europe three weeks ago, when the other tests were carried out. That has also had some consequences. I had talks with all Asian ambassadors yesterday because they rightly feel a great threat from North Korea because North Korea is now also putting peace and security at risk internationally. I will soon have a phone call with the Foreign Minister of South Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u7	In any case, I am very pleased that the Minister strongly rejects military intervention and military action. That's important, I think. The whole world is looking for solutions, but one thing we know for sure: militarisation of this conflict or even a nuclear arms race and a nuclear war are affecting humanity, potentially causing millions, millions of deaths. I expect world leaders to feel responsible for coming up with a proposal. I also hear the Minister say, of course, rightly, that sanctions are possible, but you have to ask yourself what their effect is. I have heard many experts say that so far the sanctions either proved ineffective or did not affect the elite, but the already poor population. I think that should be considered. When you talk about a diplomatic solution, I hear the Minister say it together with the other countries, Russia, China and South Korea, all of which play an important role in the region, my only question to the Minister is: what will be on the table? There must be something on the table, because otherwise this threat will remain and the current situation will remain of a complete escalation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u8	I must say that you paraphrase and fill in my answers, Mrs Karabulut. I have said that there is no military solution to this conflict and that everything must now be focused on preventing military escalation and miscalculation. I think it is essential to say that now. We see a lot of statements from different world leaders. This is really about strategic thinking to prevent a major conflict. That is the crux of the matter. There's no military solution for that. This does not mean, however, that there would be no military capability in defensive terms for countries such as South Korea and Japan. But that is quite another thing than to say: we are going to solve this militaryly. I think there's a big risk of that. That is also the message that Europe, the Netherlands and other countries will bring forward in international consultations. The second is pressure and dialogue. That's gonna be complicated. That is why I believe that we should make the most of this in the next few days. I have just seen a statement by the Russian Federation saying that the sanctions are not working. I think that's premature. I hope that the Russian Federation will also assume its responsibility to come together with China, Europe, the United States and other countries to achieve this combination of pressure and dialogue as much as possible. I would also point out that there is indeed no panacea, but the Dutch Government will be fully committed to preventing us from taking the path of military escalation and effectively taking the path of pressure and dialogue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u9	I see Mr Ten Broeke and Mr De Roon at the interrupting microphone. Mr De Roon on behalf of the PVV may be the first of Mr Ten Broeke's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u10	Galance at the top of the side of the VVD! I have the following question to the Minister. On the day of the latest North Korean nuclear explosion, I read in the newspaper Trouw that 70% of the South Korean population, on the left and on the right, believe that South Korea itself should develop a nuclear weapon. That is a sign, in my view, that the people have little confidence in all this diplomatic activity and that they do not have much confidence in any assistance if it goes wrong. My question to the Minister is whether the Dutch Government has already asked South Korea: what can we do for you, can we do for you? Is our government also prepared to support the people of South Korea, other than simply saying: we are sorry, we condemn it and it must be resolved diplomatically?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u11	Sure. I have just said that I am not only in contact with South Korea's ambassador but will soon be in contact with the Minister. I would point out that there are other reports about the majority of the Korean people, who are in favour of a peaceful association between the two Koreas. There really is a difference of opinion within South Korea about what is now the best method. I have also just made it clear that I understand very well that South Korea, but also Japan, are taking defensive measures and receiving support for them. I would like to draw your attention to the current debate on the installation of the missile shield and the strengthening of conventional capabilities. There is a threat from North Korea and, of course, we take that threat very seriously. This is also important for the protection of countries such as Japan and South Korea, precisely in order to avoid a new battle of nuclear proliferation there and that the development of North Korea's nuclear capacity would in fact lead to further proliferation and more risks in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u12	This is a second supplementary question, for you to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u13	I hear a lot of explanations about the contacts and the diplomatic movements, but has the government also offered to South Korea: we would like to do something for you, tell us what we can do? Is the government willing to go there at a high level, visible to the South Korean people, to show: we support you, we support you, you are not alone? This is necessary in order to prevent the idea that South Korea should also develop an atomic bomb from getting grounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u14	I just told you that there are important contacts with South Korea. That request has not been received. They know the solidarity and support of the Netherlands. The considerations you mention are certainly not clear about the position of the Government of South Korea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u15	The impression might have arisen for a moment that the Dutch Government, through the Dutch Minister for Foreign Affairs, took the military option off the table, because that was in the questioner's conclusion. I would very much like to hear that the Dutch Government does not do so, even if it is only a matter of not putting further pressure on the consensus, which is already under such pressure with a White House and a Pentagon that contradicts each other. That's one. Secondly, I would like to know from the Foreign Minister, Madam President, whether he sees anything else in that dialogue. I also hope that he means 'negotiations', because we have tried to conduct a dialogue in vain for 20 years. At least the VVD Group does not see anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u16	In response to the first question, there is no military option on the table. So I can't go into that further. With regard to the second element, yes, I also have my doubts about the effectiveness, both of sanctions and of dialogue. Nevertheless, I believe that if this consensus is to be pursued with maximum force and priority from the United States and Europe, and if there is a clear pressure towards Russia and China, this is the most important way of avoiding further tensions. I also believe that this is possible, but it is important that we use this as actively as possible. The issue of sanctions, brought in yesterday by the US representative to the United Nations, therefore deserves all the attention of all the members of the Security Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u17	Second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u18	I agree with the Minister that sanctions should be considered, but preferably not, as tweeted somewhere, with all the countries trading with North Korea. This also applies to those countries which have to participate in finding a solution. However, I am thinking of very targeted sanctions, including the exiles and the forced labourers targeted from North Korea in Europe, for example. Mrs Karabulut has already asked questions that I have supported. It would be a good thing for the Dutch Government to include it in its deliberations on the package of sanctions which, as far as I am concerned, should be applied as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u19	I very much agree with the honourable Member, Mr Ten Broeke, where I still have a preference for global sanctions. Moreover, I would not rule out autonomous sanctions from the European Union if other countries were not prepared to take sanctions. I do not know whether Mr Ten Broeke is interested in my answer, but that is obviously up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u20	Mr Ten Broeke, you are being spoken to! Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u21	I thought you were also interested in the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u22	I'm very interested in that! That's why I'd like to hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u23	I've heard the question, but I think you're more interested in the answer. As far as Korean forced labour is concerned, I am very concerned about this practice. So we'll definitely take that with us. We are not yet a member of the UN Security Council, but we have ensured that this point has been included in the UN Security Council resolution, so that there is now a ban on extending the work permits for North Korea. I think that should be reduced and actually just demolished. I would also like to point out that this is what you mean by the fact that, in addition to the trading countries, there are also a large number of connections between North Korea and world regimes which are often a threat to peace and security on other fronts. This also means that, if we impose sanctions, we will also place North Korea on the top of the agenda in the way we deal with these countries as the EU. Otherwise, these sanctions will indeed not be worth anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u24	Sanctions seem clear, although you have to ask yourself to what extent you can apply further sanctions, for example when it comes to the supply of oil, which does not affect the civilian population. But that will be taken into account by the EU and, I presume, by the Security Council. What does the Minister think of Chancellor Merkel's proposal, which is fine with sanctions, but also thinks that dialogue is important? Apparently, this has been in contact with the French President Macron. They are looking at the atomic deal, as previously known from Iran.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u25	I believe that the Chancellor is in the same direction as the Dutch Government, both in terms of the inconceivable of a military solution and the search for a combination of pressure and dialogue, also considering what can work. In the past period, we have seen that North Korea was generally just going to negotiate for a while, getting some resources and then just doing what it was already planning to do. That risk remains. So let there be no misunderstanding, I am not naive about this dialogue either. Whether that could be something like what we've developed with Iran, could be. In any case, that was a successful diplomatic agreement. I would point out, however, that the regime in North Korea is again completely different from that in Iran. The way in which the nuclear problem has developed in Iran is a lot further. So there's a risk in that, too. The question is, could you do it the same way? However, the objective of a diplomatic solution, as far as possible, is absolutely a priority for the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-05-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you.
