ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP Group as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "As aldermen responsible for the reintegration of jobseekers, it will make it impossible for us to provide vulnerable groups with good support towards paid employment." That's what about 270 aldermen in the manifesto Investing in work for vulnerable groups. Their distress call is crystal clear: if we do nothing, the disabled will be put aside mercilessly. My question is simple. Is the government prepared to stop the severe cuts in social services and to provide enough budget to guide people to work? Think of Wajangers, WSW'ers and non-contributorys. For €1,000 per employee, savings have already been made in the social employment system. On top of that, the government wants to cut another €2,000. That's about 140 million in total. That's the neckbeat. The guidance will then become unfeasible and SW facilities will actually be wound up. More than 80% of SW companies are already running red figures and some have already fallen over. It's pure capital destruction. If the government willingly and knowingly wants to turn a blind eye to social services, just say it honestly. Because this policy is a death home construction. Instead of breaking down, we need to build up, for example through a rescue plan for the SW. Job agreements are not going well, especially with the government. Too few people are being helped to get a job. Yet the government is waiting another year for the so-called Quotum Act. Why is it not already being introduced? That was the deal, wasn't it? The market is on schedule, even if it is demand. These are often temporary jobs, we call them dungeon jobs, while this particular target group, of people with autism or intellectual disabilities, benefits from solidity. So also provide sufficient resources on that point. Secretary of State Klijnsma had a great deal of sympathy for the aldermen's manifesto for the summer. She just didn't want to do it because there was a new cabinet. In the meantime, we are past Prince's Day and there is still no cabinet. Yesterday we received the budget. There's gonna be money for teachers and nursing homes. Measures are not therefore impossible. The question is simple: if you can arrange money for care and education, why not also for the disabled? The Wajongers are being greatly wronged. Their benefit will be cut by 5% on 1 January. They would be helped in return for work, but that won't work. The Quotum Act has been postponed again. However, the discount remains ice cold. If the government gets a reprieve, give the Wajongers a reprieve. The best thing to do is to delete the discount altogether. Finally, there's something else. The cabinet is calling for no one to go back on it. So that's bullshit, because Wajangers are definitely going backwards. For this reason, too, it would be a good thing for the government to remove this penalty at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The aim of the Participation Act was to create a single scheme for people at the bottom of the labour market. This scheme was intended to enable municipalities to look at what people really need to be able to work or participate in society in a different way. Unfortunately, this Participation Act became the strictest welfare law ever, a law that dismisses people without work as unwilling or as potential fraudsters, and excludes them instead of incarceration. It is therefore a law based on mistrust rather than trust. That's a missed opportunity, because distrust doesn't help people get to work any better. The law is rigid and is also applied rigidly by the cabinet. Municipalities who would like to work and experiment themselves with regular assistance are being thwarted. Amsterdam and Utrecht are not allowed to participate in the experiments. Why not? Because the Secretary of State says that in order to experiment with the imposition of fewer rules, you have to put the consideration in your regulation. You don't have to run it, but as a municipality you have to pretend to run it by putting it on paper. You can't explain that, can you? It is bullying to municipalities, but unfortunately they are a bit used to this cabinet. It's unbelievable to people. 'Cause what do you say to this? That a dead letter is more important than really watching us get people out of welfare sustainably. What kind of signal do you send as a national government with this? I'd like a response. Another key issue is the financial framework. Mr. Van Dijk went into that, too. There's not enough money for municipalities to really help people. For example, there should be more budget for sheltered work. Yet the cabinet continues to interfere with vulnerable people. Because one of the few measures in the low-policy budget that was presented yesterday is the Wajongers benefit reduction that will start in 2018. Yesterday, the cabinet welcomed the progress made by everyone. But that's just not true. Wajangers, people who are not already wide, get a 5% discount. And that while they also have to deal with a higher own risk, a higher care premium and often higher rents. I find that very disappointing. This vulnerable group is being taken away from something that these people have been entitled to for years and what they just desperately need. How does the Secretary of State explain to those people that they are the only ones who are immediately cut back on their income? What ratio is behind this? I like to hear it. On the Wmo and the Youth Act, there is also something to note: there is a lot of savings and the changes went too fast. But at least these laws still give municipalities the room to look at differences between people. The Participation Act offers that space much less. As a result, you can see that the Participation Act doesn't give people more space, but less space. This law is therefore urgently needed as far as GroenLinks is concerned. The ideology of distrust must come out. Executors need to be given space to really look at people and help them, because laws are there for people and not the other way around. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The D66 group also gave birth to the pre-summer round table. It was very pleasant to discuss the Participation Act with employees, employers and aldermen in an open and constructive manner. Of course, we too have listened carefully to the problems experienced by those concerned. Let's start with the first problem. There's not enough money, it's said. Like the Secretary of State, I take these signals very seriously. Example: according to several aldermen, the BUIG budget would be inadequate due to the strong growth of the number of welfare recipients. However, I read in the letter of 30 June that there is also a special game for which municipalities can claim an application. This budget, an advance, has been used only very limitedly. How is that possible? I'm asking the Secretary of State. Weren't municipalities familiar with this game? Or maybe the application was too complicated? I'd like a response. Secondly, I am concerned about insufficient guidance for specific groups. For example, young people with lower labour productivity or young people who are not entitled to benefits would be less well-helped by municipalities, because municipalities themselves do not benefit as much; then financially. The importance of young people is then subordinate. This can't be happening. Fortunately, the Secretary of State has indicated that he is going to investigate this point further and to inform us about it in the autumn. If it is true that, for example, young people are less well assisted in finding work, I do wonder how we could quickly improve this situation. Does the Secretary of State have a plan B in place in case this is necessary? The fact that this Secretary of State is able to intervene quickly and decisively has recently emerged from the implementation of the quota. Governments aren't helping enough people to get a job. That is why the Secretary of State has taken that decision, also with the support of D66. Finally, I am concerned about the fact that there are still municipalities that do not create sheltered workshops at all. It is a good thing that the amendment of the law has now considerably increased the number of places, but this number is still too low if you sell it against demand. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about this? We are reading about more information and a moral appeal to municipalities to make real work of it now. But where is, even in this case, the stick the Secretary of State can strike with? Can it possibly intervene harder in this area to ensure that everyone in the Netherlands gets the right place of work that he or she is entitled to? So much for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u7	First a compliment to Mr Raemakers, because he is here, unlike his colleagues from the CDA and from the Christian Union. Where are they? It is such an important debate! Let me get this straight. Then about the discount on the Wajong benefit. Does Mr Raemakers agree with me that it is quite unfair for these people to be cut so hard? First of all, it does not appear at all that everyone is making progress, as is claimed. Secondly, they were promised a job, but most of it did not come at all. Does he think that discount is unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u8	Firstly, it is good to note that the debate requested by the SP concerns problems in the implementation of the Participation Act. That's what I've been focusing on in my term. I understand that Mr Van Dijk would like to talk about this. It is, of course, a very important subject. It should be noted that at the time the social agreement was agreed, including by the trade unions, that this group of Wajangers would be put back into the assistance which would give them much less rights. Partly because of D66 and other parties, it was chosen not to include this group in the assistance. It was chosen not to include this group in the assistance but at the level of 70% or 75% of the minimum wage. That's already very important, I'd say. But, of course, I certainly share Mr Van Dijk's concern that the most important point is to give this group of young people a real job perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u9	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u10	That is a nice descriptive answer, but I would like to know a little more about your political line, Mr Raemakers. Do you agree that the reduction on the Wajong benefit from 75% to 70% on 1 January is unfair because the jobs promised have not come and they are simply cut down hard? Do you agree that we should undo that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u11	You ask me if I think it is unfair that the income position should go from 75% to 70%. I understand that it is very annoying, but I would prefer to make the link to the second part of Mr Van Dijk's speech. He says: precisely because it is not possible to get those young people to work. That is what I want to focus on in this debate. We're talking about implementation problems, and there's an opportunity. If there are municipalities that do not help young people to work or do not provide adequate guidance, we need to focus on this. That would be my commitment for today. I have therefore asked the Secretary of State if we can quickly improve the position of young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u12	I find a decline of €70 per month more than a bit annoying if you already have very little to spend. Mr Raemakers also said that it was about the implementation problems relating to the Participation Act. Amsterdam and Utrecht are eager to experiment with regular assistance to get people to work. The Secretary of State says that we will not allow that, because they do not want to put the consideration in the regulation. How does the D66 Group feel about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u13	That's another problem. We have seen, however, that the Secretary of State has informed two municipalities that they need to amend a text in the regulation, while the underlying idea in itself is in agreement. I said that the D66 Group thinks that is a bit of an odd position from the Secretary of State. You can't tell municipalities to change something in their regulation, when they can actually do the same thing. Look, I think that sounds weird and I certainly agree with the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that that should be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mrs. Voortman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u15	Then my follow-up question is: what else should we do and how should we arrange it? The Secretary of State says no now. Are we gonna say, Secretary of State, you gotta take care of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u16	Right now we're in formation. This subject will certainly be discussed further. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u17	Also about the Wajong discount. Mr Raemakers spoke about the social agreement. That's from a few years ago. The essence of that agreement was: we want to get people back to work. That is what Mr Raemakers is saying. People need to be intensively escorted to work. That's the key to success. We've been a few years. It's going very well economically. It is about the small amount of EUR 45 million, which is also due to expire in the coming years. It is not about billions of investments and it is about a very vulnerable group. Does Mr Raemakers agree, when it comes to such an amount and such a vulnerable group, that we must do everything we can to prevent that reduction next year? Because we're talking about next year, about 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr Gijs van Dijk is actually asking the same question as Mr Jasper van Dijk, from another group. I can answer the same question. I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u19	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u20	Let me refer to something else, which I noticed very much during the round table. There are noises that sometimes young people are not helped to work. I asked the aldermen at that round table whether they do not help young people or give too little guidance in their municipalities, because that is what I read in the papers. There were four or five aldermen that day. They all said, "No, it doesn't happen to us; we help those young people." I would, of course, like to hear from the Secretary of State if she has any signals that there are municipalities where young people are not being helped. Helping them would be the primary bet for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u21	Finally, Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u22	This is certainly a very important step, but cutting benefits is not guiding them to work. As far as I am concerned, that is a step we should not take. Mr Raemakers just referred to the formation table, logically, because there are other parties at another table. Is this point on the formation table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u23	All the points are on the formation table, I would almost say. That makes sense, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u24	What a diplomatic answer. You were already done, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u25	Yeah, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you. I'm going to see Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan. No, I'm going to see Mr. Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Everyone must be able to count on good work, with a decent wage and support if things are not right. That is a certainty that every Dutchman must be able to rely on. People who are keen to contribute to the labour market but need a little more help in doing so must also be given this help, because work is so much more than a paycheck per month. Work means social contacts, developing yourself and making a difference. For people with a distance from work and the labour market, jobs must therefore be created, both in industry and in the public sector. To give everyone a place, everyone has to do their part. That certainly applies to the government. Mr. Chairman. The social agreement has agreed that we are helping people on the way to work in companies and institutions. This gives social services a different function. The Labour Party made a tough condition: 125,000 jobs with perspective for people with disabilities. If things are slow, like they are now, we need to intervene. It is therefore good that the quota is activated, but I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what the cabinet, and especially the Minister of the Interior, is about to do to ensure that the government takes the lead. Which sectors exactly are lagging behind? Where's the most room? And where's the action plan? How is it coordinated and when will the Chamber be informed about this? As far as we are concerned, the responsibility of the government goes beyond its responsibility as an employer. The government is a large customer of goods and services. That is why we want public procurement to give priority to social and sustainable entrepreneurship, to businesses that are not only about profits, but also about the people. Then the concerns of many aldermen in the Netherlands; it was already recalled. With a pamphlet and a round table in the House of Representatives, they indicated that municipalities would like to help people with work, but that the budgets are not sufficient. We know that intensive and personal guidance is the key to work. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State where the budgets are in her eyes and what that means for a new cabinet. Finally, Mr President, the Wajong benefit; we have already talked about it. At the start of the cabinet, many measures had to be taken to restore sound public finances. For example, a discount on the Wajong benefit was included from 2018, also in the belief that we are helping people with a Wajong benefit. We can see that the jobs for Wajangers aren't going well yet. Fortunately, things are improving economically. Public finances are excellent and the last thing we have to do is to burden people who are dependent on benefits with additional uncertainty about their income. We want jobs and security, and if it doesn't work out, we need good and secure benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u28	Thank you. That was the first term of office. The Secretary of State can answer directly. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to all the members of your Chamber who have contributed. Because as weird as it may sound, it's nice to be able to talk one more time about the Participation Act here. It is simply a pleasure to be able to debate this again with the members of your Chamber, including, fortunately, a number of Members who have actually experienced and often supported the creation of the Participation Act. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that I am very keen to emphasise once again that this inclusive labour market is the most important, most important. People, all people in the Netherlands, should simply be able to participate in our labour market. That is, of course, also the underlying idea of the Participation Act. I also note that not everyone is speaking this afternoon. One is a little braver than the other, I'll say. But when I listen to the various members of the Chamber, it is good to stress once again that these social work companies are a great asset in our country. We must never say goodbye to this, because social services are an essential tool in the labour market region because they have a great deal of expertise to help people from a distance to the labour market and to continue to guide them to work. I am so glad that the Chamber also approved of putting extra money into it so that the labour market and social work facilities could also be transformed into social services of the 21st century. There is still a lot of work to be done. Hat off for all those people who are doing that! The infrastructure in the labour market regions is starting to stand up, but you have to stick to it, as the outgoing Secretary of State, for the best result. So I also hope that the Chamber and my successor will continue to make an incredible commitment to this. If it's all right with you, Mr. Chairman, I'll just go and see the members of your room. I will come to all the points of view that have been put forward. Jasper van Dijk, Mr Jasper van Dijk, naturally presented the hearing and the aldermen. I am very pleased that the Chamber invites fellow governments to exchange views from time to time and to hear from them what concerns are at stake and how we could solve them all. The aldermen are of course in no uncertain terms, so I know my fellow directors! It should be noted that it is in itself pleasurable that the decentralisations now allow them to do more tailor-made work for people, but that they do need the right instruments. Of course, that's always money. I really don't have to put up with the fact that the sternte is different now than when we started in 2012. I understand that the VNG and the aldermen of Social Affairs and Employment are now saying to the House of Representatives and to the negotiating parties: the stellar is something else. Can we therefore perhaps look in particular at the so-called P-part, the supporting part, so that people who really have a great distance from the labour market can get more commitment from us? I understand that very well. At the time, we rowed with the belts that were there. I imagine you're now looking at whether those belts could get a little longer; may I put it that way, Mr. Chairman? That is also what Mr Jasper van Dijk said. He said that we should look in the P section to see whether we should not, in the end, want to put a little bit more into it in structural terms. From the resources I had, I really tried as best I could to keep the social work facilities straight. I have also anchored the new sheltered work in the law and put extra money into it: five times 20 million. That doesn't change the fact that you also have to look at insight for the next year's albums. I understand, therefore, that Mr Van Dijk is making a warm plea for this. Then there's the job deal. Mr Van Dijk is in favour of this, and I understand that in order to get the quota straight forward for the government employers. I have also listened very carefully to Mr Raemakers. The market employers will achieve the number of jobs, and even more than we have agreed, so that, fortunately, the total number of jobs is decent. We're even above it. That's really thanks to the market. But the governments are failing, and that is, of course, simply not a face; let us put it that way. In the bosom of the present cabinet, I have, of course, appealed to my colleagues. It's in a lot of sectors. Mr Gijs van Dijk, I believe, asked me which sectors it is in. That's in education, at the Tax Office, really in a lot of sectors. They're gonna have to put the leg on. That is why we have agreed that we will give an extra year to improve the situation. We can see, of course, that in recent years, governments too have had quite a hard time and that with all these cuts, it was not easy for them to create these guarantee jobs. But we'll keep them to the number that's been agreed. My colleague from BZK's action plan is coming in this autumn. This will include precisely the sectors for which what should be done. I just think you should handle that stick behind the door. I'm sorry, because I really hoped it wouldn't have been necessary. But it must be done, because we must not abandon the people who desperately need those jobs. Then the Wajangers; in fact, all the spokesmen have addressed this. I understand that very well too. As Mr Raemakers pointed out, we all know, of course, what the discussion has been about under the Rutte/Verhagen cabinet and under this cabinet. When the waves went high, it was really a matter of putting pits into nerves. I am not taking you back in history, but there was even talk of placing the current Wajongers with the municipalities, of course also with all the ins and outs of the assistance and therefore also with the power test and the partner test. That wasn't easy, was it? After all, all these Wajangers would also go to 70% of the minimum legal wage, with all the other issues involved in the assistance. So it's nice that that's not the issue. But if the starry thing is any better, then I understand, again, that you're also looking at whether you should continue this austerity. The present cabinet has not done so in the outgoing state anymore. But I'm saying what I'm saying, and I understand the plea that's being made here. I have also provided insight into what that would mean financially: indeed 45 million, ending in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u30	What I really don't understand is this: what is the ratio behind this austerity? What did the Secretary of State expect when this was decided that the effect would be if you took people 5%...........................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u31	Of course, it wasn't about taking 5% of people away. Look, of course, we had to take a lot of measures back then. That wasn't easy, was it? Yesterday, at Prince's Day, they said to me, "Well, Jetta, good luck with the last heavy weight." I said, "Well, I'm sorry, but for the first two years, that was heavy chunks and those were the first pieces. It wasn't easy, but we made that decision. I was just saying that it was at first instance that all these people would be covered by the welfare bill. We didn't do that back then. We have agreed in the social agreement the 125,000 jobs. A large part of the Wajangers also go to those jobs. So that's fun, because then, of course, they can earn the legal minimum wage. For that part of the Wajangers who are not on those jobs yet, that discount is on the table, except for the Wajangers who are over 50 years old. That is what we have also talked about here, and the Wajangers who are already working. We made that trade-off then, I'm not making it more beautiful than it is, because, of course, we had to look at how we could help the rich budget on a story-by-story basis. Now we see that the stellar is just better. That is exactly what I have just reported to Mr Jasper van Dijk. So, yeah, you could say in the budget procedure that you want to take another look at it. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u32	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u33	It will indeed make sense to look at that. In fact, it would have made sense if the kabinét had already done so. Many topics have been discussed in recent weeks: teacher salaries, older people. But we leave the Wajangers in the cold. I think that's really serious. But we will indeed come back to that in the Social Affairs budget. But those 125,000 jobs didn't come. That makes it extra crazy to cut this group of Wajangers by now, doesn't it? Then you should also be consistent and say: okay, we have not kept our promises, then we do not make this discount either. That would have been consistent, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u34	Yeah, but look, we never said that all Wajongers would get one-on-one on the warranty jobs, because we knew what the rhythm of the warranty jobs would be like. That rhythm is very good. Because fortunately, what I just told you was that the market did create the number of jobs, and even more, that we had agreed for the 2016 Annual Disc. So that's good on steam. But that does not go away, and I say in all honesty, that the number of Wajangers who do not yet have a job is, of course, also substantial. So that point of attention is simply tackled not only by the Chamber but by everyone. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to mention that the UWV has a calculation tool for Wajangers. I think it's important to say this. With that tool you can really be just as specific to you before January 1, 2018, it can be different for every Wajanger, because if you work part of it, it is complicated to see what it means, because then you can look forward to more extra fees. So very often it doesn't mean that you will actually see 5% less on your giro account. So it's really important that Wajangers take a closer look at that math help. I see Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u35	Mr Van Dijk, Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u36	It's kind of painful, I have to establish. Money is being arranged for education, money is being arranged for care, but the Wajongers are not getting anything, while it is being said from the cabinet: no one is going backwards next year. Do you share the view that that was not entirely correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u37	The cabinet has said that if you look at the different groups, because they are always of those cohorts, everyone stays at zero or anything improves. That's right. But within these cohorts there are always relatively small groups that you can look at extra. I think you should just say that, too, so your question is correct. Of this group, you can't say one-on-one that they wouldn't go backwards. That's why I'm saying: use the calculation tool now, because then it could be that it could be lucky.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u38	The Secretary of State also says: in economically better times we could see what could be done about this. Let me translate this as follows. The Secretary of State's actually saying we might have to fix that discount on the Wajong. That seems very sensible to me. The only question is what is left of her mandate now that a new cabinet is about to start. I see this as an encouragement to the budget as it came along with all the parties who believe that this is not entirely proper to seek a solution, which could then be implemented by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u39	Of course I cannot rule over my grave, she spoke sadly. But of course I didn't say for nothing that the starry moment is really different than in 2013, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u41	Then I'll come to Mrs. Voortman. She said that the Participation Act is important for achieving a single arrangement at the bottom, but that the word "confidence" is very important. I very much agree with her. That is why, of course, we have been doing what we can to ensure that tailor-made work is really at the forefront of the Participation Act. There is a per man view of what this person needs in terms of income provision and guidance to the labour market. We obviously have the opportunity to experiment on the basis of the Participation Act. A General Measure of Management has been made for this purpose. In doing so, the Chamber also followed a preliminary procedure. On the basis of this AMvB we have said: if experiments are being carried out by municipalities, then there must be a level playing field at the bottom. Otherwise, you can't compare these municipalities and at the end of the experiments you can't see what it could mean for the change of the Participation Act. Because if it can be improved, then you have to. I think Mrs Voortman is quite right about that. She said, "I wrote it down "that laws are there for people, not the other way around." That's right. So now we've really looked at what you need as a basis to be able to participate in those experiments. One of the things that is essential is that your regulation is up to date. I understand, of course, that the semantics play a role. But I have seen, for example, that a number of municipalities have this regulation very neatly in place. The municipality of Deventer participates, like Wageningen, Tilburg, Nijmegen and Groningen. At first, they did not all have their regulations properly in place. They just have that in order. On the basis of Article 18, they simply treat their welfare citizens very neatly. In Amsterdam and Utrecht it is not yet in order. Of course you can. So I'd like to invite them to put things in order. I have, of course, followed the debates in the Amsterdam and Utrecht Councils. I sincerely hope that Utrecht, as the alderman there said, will use the mouse hole that is at issue, because I would really like Utrecht to participate in the experiments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u42	I just grabbed that article. It is about the municipalities of Amsterdam and Utrecht. The Secretary of State has said, and I quote: 'They must make their local welfare rules stricter on paper, but in practice the cities do not have to impose that obligation'. Can the Secretary of State imagine that such a message on paper you have to change the rules, but in practice you don't have to change anything to explain to municipalities and citizens is very difficult? And could the Secretary of State please state clearly what the importance of this change is if it doesn't matter in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u43	Look, we didn't ask the Council of State to look at that again for nothing. This cannot be explained in two ways. As far as compensation is concerned, the Council of State says that all municipalities should at least include in their regulation that you should be able to issue a mandatory consideration. As a municipality, you must want that instrument. That's just gotta be in your ordinance. I say for a reason that municipalities, of course, look at what kind of a person in welfare is good to do. There are municipalities, such as Groningen and Amsterdam, that look at it per person: can someone perhaps volunteer? Are we gonna escort him to the labour market? Or are we just gonna leave him alone for a little while because he's not in the right place? Those municipalities really look up to people with the custom glasses, and that's how it's supposed to be. Of course, there may be municipalities that never oblige anyone to pay in return, but there are also municipalities that do. That freedom of policy has municipalities, but one thing is as clear as glass. There can be no misunderstanding about that at all. I asked the Council of State for information again on purpose, and it says it again: the regulation must state, on the basis of the legislation, that you must be able to impose the compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u44	Finally, Mrs Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u45	But we are talking about the text of the law, not practice. The Secretary of State admits here that in practice municipalities do not have to impose that consideration on people. That's actually an omission in the law, isn't it? Then we have to say that the law on this point is very weird. I would find it more logical if this Secretary of State said: let's look at the practice and not include that consideration in the regulation. Why is the Secretary of State not in favour of that route, but instead opting for the bureaucratic route, which is about what you have on paper? It's about practice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u46	I'm not admitting that practice and law wouldn't match. What is important is that municipalities in their regulation may have instruments based on the law. Then, together with the people who are involved, municipalities have to make what is a great good! Looking at what works best for these people. That's what job coaches and people who support welfare workers do very well. So the Council of State says that municipalities should have a number of things properly regulated in their regulation so that they can grab those instruments if they ever need to. If municipalities never want to use these instruments, it is also up to municipalities. In itself, that's not so crazy at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u47	Really last but not least, Mrs. Voortman. This is just a 30-member debate and I understand that the Secretary of State is about to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u48	I do not think we can agree on this. The Secretary of State says it should be in your decree, but you don't have to implement it necessarily. I don't think anyone can follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u49	One more time, in answer: a human can just have a toolbox. That is what we call the municipality's regulation in this case. There's all kinds of tools in there. You may never use one tool. That's possible, but that toolbox has to be in order for you-know-but-never. That's how I'd describe it. So it must be in your toolbox, but whether or not you use it is really up to you. Mr President, I have already addressed the rest of what Mrs Voortman has put forward, including the Wajangers. Then I come to Mr Raemakers. He put forward the BUIG budget. He said the aldermen could use the advance for status holders, right? That's right. Few aldermen have done that. But to get in the way of the aldermen, I have to say that this is an advance that would be settled later. So I also understand that a number of aldermen thought: we'll see about that later. But I think it is good to stress once again that this I part, that BUIG budget, obviously also has a safety net. If there are municipalities that have really large deficits on the I part, they can always use the safety net. We've arranged that well and firmly. Mr Raemakers stressed in his debate on the interruption how important it is for young people to receive good guidance from the municipality. When young people leave school, they should actually be transferred one-on-one to further education or to the labour market. Those two flavors are there. I notice that more and more aldermen actually do it all in the labour market regions have close contacts with employers, education, the trade union movement and the UWV. These are the partners of the municipalities who ensure that this warm transfer takes place. This is particularly essential in the field of special education and practical education. These young people are still vulnerable and must be made one-on-one, if I may express myself so, to a place, often a guarantee job, with an employer. That warranty job isn't a job. Warranty lanes are often created specifically for these young people. That is the added value of the way we act with each other now. It's nice to see that it gets more and more shape, but you have to stick with it for the best result. It is therefore very nice that Mr Raemakers has put this on the agenda once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u50	You have a toolbox of the root and the stick and we try to encourage as many municipalities as possible that they are really going to help young people. But what if the State Secretary's investigation shows that a number of municipalities do not help or do not want to help young people? What can the Secretary of State do to ensure that these municipalities do so quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u51	It's nice that someone from D66 uses the root and the stick. I'm always looking forward to spinning yarn with the municipalities. In recent years, you have seen that I have granted municipalities a great deal of freedom of policy. We have just had a debate on the consideration. You also asked about the new sheltered work. I saw that many municipalities, I call them villains, put that sheltered work in the regulation, but put the number of places at zero. Then you abandon people. It can't be. You cannot abandon people, often young people, who are looking for that sheltered setting and who really need it. Then I said, "Let's put it in the law." Fortunately, I now see a steady growth in the number of new shelters. We only saw 388 spots in 2016. In 2017 there are already 1,076 until September. So it's moving. The call remains: come on, aldermen, make sure the people who need it get that new shelter. For the guidance of young people I leave that policy freedom open, because I see that aldermen do have antennas for that. Even better is that I see that city councils are going to take classes from B and W. Municipal councils also see, of course, how many shelters these young people need and how these young people get out of school. Those young people should not end up on the streets between shore and ship, but should simply be accompanied. Municipal councils therefore keep their aldermen in mind. Finally, I come to Mr Gijs van Dijk, who, fortunately, stresses once again from the Labour Party how important work is for a person and that it is indeed not just about your salary, but also, of course, about the commitment to life as such, about social contacts. He also says what the social agreement has achieved. I am delighted with the 125,000 jobs, because I can already see that employers are seeing the added value and that the labour market is becoming increasingly inclusive, so that is wonderful. I have already dealt with the fact that BZK is bringing the action plan around the quota, so we look forward to that. I also addressed the concerns of the aldermen. I express the hope, and also the expectation, that the Chamber will remain alert to this and will seize the momentum of the budget debate. Mr President, I think I would have visited all the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u52	Did a question remain, Mr Jasper van Dijk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u53	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u54	What's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u55	It might also be nice to close, because I understand that the Secretary of State is ready. The reason for this debate was the manifesto of the aldermen, signed by no less than 270 aldermen, I do not think of the smallest municipalities. My question is actually: does the Secretary of State acknowledge that something is going on? Otherwise, 270 aldermen will not sign anything, I think. In conclusion, they say that in order to correct the 1.8 billion cut in the introduction of the Participation Act, we would now need 400 million. Secretary of State, do you agree, apart from the amounts, that something is going on? Do they have a point in that manifesto, with the general call for guidance, better guidance? Should we, as a Chamber, or as a political one, actually draw up a plan for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u56	Here I am once again asked as the outgoing Secretary of State what I think the situation is now, at the moment. This manifesto dates from after the Lower House elections. I think it is wise, as a former alderman, that the aldermen show that they are naturally rowing with the belts that are there and that they can also help many people with that. But, again, if those belts are longer, they can help more people more intensively. So it's their right. In fact, I think they wouldn't be worth a slap in the face if they didn't show to the negotiating parties now that they can make more use of extra resources for the most vulnerable in our society. So that's very funny. Again, in 2013 the flag was different. That flag is flying again, so it is very good that local leaders stand up for the people they have to pull out for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u57	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u58	Nor can the Secretary of State do anything about it, but I do find this a bit uncomfortable, having such a debate when we know that a new cabinet can be created at any moment. But there isn't, and we've been waiting for a while. We would, of course, like to have a debate on this. That is why, once again, I am very sorry that certain parties are not present. But let us see it in such a way that the words of the Secretary of State, who says that this needs to be looked at, and my words that this manifesto needs to be taken very seriously, are echoed in the formation chamber. Don't you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u59	You're well aware of that, Mr. Chairman. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u60	Thank you. Is there a need for a second term? Yeah? I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk. Speaking time is one minute. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I have two motions. One is about the interrupting debate we have just had: a call to take the manifesto seriously. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in their manifesto, more than 270 aldermen voice justified concerns about cuts in the guidance of vulnerable groups to work;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities, to draw up a national plan to ensure the support of vulnerable groups in the labour market,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u62	The second motion, you guessed it, is about the Wajong. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Wajong benefit for people with working capacity is reduced by 5% as of 1 January 2018;]] [[considers that the basis for the discount has expired as less than 1,000 people with a Wajong benefit have been helped in a paid job;]] [[Considering that the Government has postponed the achievement of the goals of the Jobs Agreement, but that the discount on the Wajong as of 1 January 2018 is still in place;]] [[noting that the cabinet claims that no one is declining in 2018, while Wajongers are declining;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the planned reduction in Wajong benefit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34352-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Mr President. The second motion has been taken from my heart. I would have liked to have signed it, too, Mr Van Dijk, but perhaps that can still be corrected. As far as quota is concerned, I think it is a really missed opportunity for the Secretary of State not to bite through. Governments don't deliver the warranty jobs they should have provided. And what's the result? We're gonna monitor for another year. In the meantime, as Mr Van Dijk rightly pointed out, the Wajongers are being cut, while the jobs are not there for them. With regard to regular assistance, the Secretary of State compares the regulation with a toolbox. But why should we impose on municipalities that their toolbox has such a counterpart when we say at the same time that municipalities themselves should have that space? If Amsterdam and Utrecht are sure that they do not need that consideration, would it not be logical for us to trust them in that? That is precisely the mistrust I criticised in the first term: mistrust towards people who are not in work, but also distrust towards municipalities, who have to implement the Participation Act. There's gotta be another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Now that I have defied the first term, I must also be so brave as to stand here for a minute in the second term. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her reply. For D66, it is clear that people with disabilities must be able to participate in the labour market. We are also seeing a lot of positive developments. In part, we are already seeing a cultural shift towards an inclusive labour market. Where it is against, we see that the Secretary of State dares to intervene. The quota has been activated for public enterprises. Of course there are still concerns. We have discussed some of these today, for example the provision of guidance for young people, for example the number of sheltered jobs. We hope that this Secretary of State and her successor will do so. Finally, money has been mentioned several times. As you know, we are in the process of formation, but everything that has been said during this debate will be passed on. So your input has not been for nothing! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you. The Secretary of State can respond immediately. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yes, Mr President, this is a fine example of the debate! I still have to deal with the second-term contributions. There are two motions on the part of Mr Jasper van Dijk, alone and cum suis. The motion in part No. 67 asks me to draw up a national plan. I don't know; I don't think that's appropriate right now. I listened carefully to the debate. I can very well imagine that my successor will look with you at what is needed to further shape and content the Participation Act and, above all, for the people who support it. And then the word "national plan" falls, but I think it's about helping what's now on track. I can't even say anything about that anymore, but I think it's very excited to have a new government with a national plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr. Chairman, may I have a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yes, very briefly. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yeah, let me get this straight. Whether you call it a national plan or action plan, it doesn't matter now. The point is that the distress call from the manifesto is taken seriously. That is the purpose of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u71	I think that your Chamber has discussed this very well, because you have taken this cry for help very seriously. The current government is doing the same. Of course, I have many contacts with many aldermen and also administrative consultations with the VNG. In fact, the cry of hearts that deserves succession is not so much that a whole new plan has to be made, because the instruments that are there do satisfy. That's not the point. Only one is asking for more financial resources to be made available to the team. As I said, I can imagine. If the motion were to be different, she'd be sympathetic on her own, but I have nothing to do with that national plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u73	So I formally dissuade the motion as she lies here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u74	That was obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u75	Then there's the second motion. The government is invited to delete the planned reduction in the Wajong benefit at this time. I think I've tried very hard to provide insight into the different flags of 2013 and now, so I need to formally discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u76	Very briefly, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u77	Just before the Minutes: Mrs Voortman may also be added to the list of applicants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u78	Okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u79	Then there was Mrs Voortman's input. We talked about that, of course. I have used both new sheltered work and the Jobs Agreement and quota instruments Act. I think there should be sheltered areas, so the law must also be strengthened. The quota's not in the law for nothing, so I turned it on. I wasn't immediately raised on the shoulders by the employers in question, but it was turned on. I am very keen to say this, also for the Acts: government employers need to get their legs up, because if they do, they can also get the quota deactivated. The sooner, the better, I'd like to say. Again, I really hope my successor keeps that stick behind the door in the drawer. If you have to get that stick out of the drawer, you've got to get it out; I've done it now. But if that stick can get back in, then that's just fine, because then there'll be plenty of warranty jobs. One more thing. Mr Jasper van Dijk ran away now, but the recital of his motion states that less than 1,000 people with Wajong benefits would have been helped in a paid job. I would like to say this, because that is by no means the case. It concerns thousands of people: fortunately, 60,000 people with Wajong benefits already have a job. Last year there were 7 000 and again this year we are talking about a large number. I can see where these 1,000 people come from; they come from the 24,000 that have now been taken into firmer treatment. But it is not true that only 1,000 Wajongers would have been helped in a paid job. I would like to make that right for the Acts. Then last but not least, Mrs Voortman said that the toolbox is not based on trust. As far as I'm concerned, that may be crystal clear. Everything in that toolbox you can use, but you don't have to use it for people. That is really up to the municipality in question and the people who work at that municipality. The most important thing is that I should like to thank the people who have to work with this toolbox very much. Because they do all kinds of things from the ground up for all of us, we have already been able to adapt our legislation to many parts. Again: a law is not a purpose, but a means. Let us conclude this debate in this way. I would like to thank all those Members who have once again raised issues which are very important for people who are looking for a job but cannot do it very easily. So thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-8.u81	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
