ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, Mark Rutte, and the United Kingdom Ambassador, Geoffrey Adams. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. Whoever saw the footage in the last few days saw teenagers and adults who had been looking forward to finally seeing their idol perform. We saw parents at the exit of the concert hall, waiting for their children, curious about the stories of their son or daughter about how beautiful the evening was. It was different. What was supposed to be the night of their lives ended in drama. In one blow, 22 innocent civilians, including many children, have been robbed of their lives. Nearly 60 people were injured. Something that should have been a precious memory for everyone who was at the concert has been destroyed by sick spirits. The images are heartbreaking. The uncertainty with the waiting parents lasted a long time. In and around the stadium there was chaos and panic. Through social media, people went looking for their children or other relatives, lovers or friends. Many Manchester residents opened their homes and captured the fleeing people. Now, two days later, we wait for the exact facts of the attack. But we already know that we may never get an answer to some of the questions. How can people do that to others? How can anyone be so cruel? How is it possible someone is killing innocent children? It's beyond comprehension. One thing is certain: a free society cannot be disrupted by hatred and violence. We have to keep saying this, and we have to act on this. Ultimately, our democratic values are stronger. Freedom wins from fear. We sympathize with England and, in particular, with Manchester. Our thoughts go out to the victims and their next of kin, to all those families, families and friends who need to miss a loved one. We cannot take away their grief, but we hope that they feel strengthened by the knowledge that we are thinking of them. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. It is a silent thought that the suicide attack in Manchester was deliberately aimed at young music fans, almost children. The attack was aimed at young people who had undoubtedly been looking forward to a great concert and a fantastic evening for weeks. But that night ended in a nightmare, in the loss of more than twenty lives of young people and adults. There were dozens of wounded, some of whom are still fighting for their lives. The evening ended in unfathomably deep sorrow in so many families, families, school classes and groups of friends. I also said it yesterday in my first reaction: this never gets used to. We can't reach it with our wits. Because how unscrupulous do you have to be to plan and carry out an attack like this? How cruel and inhuman can an act be? How cowardly? How empty? How aimless? I agree with all those who have said, in response to this barbaric act, that we are and will continue to be determined, that we will continue to give up our free and democratic way of life. It is good that this sound continues to sound international, because it is the only right message in the direction of anyone who has the illusion that democracy will ever give way to terrorist violence. That's not gonna happen. Because democratic values are stronger than the hatred that results from such attacks. Madam President, today our hearts are with the victims and with everyone who has to live with the consequences of this horrible attack: parents, brothers and sisters, grandparents and grandmothers, husbands and partners, classmates and friends. Let us hope that all sympathy and support will help us to bear this great sorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I would ask those present to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members have the opportunity to convey their condolences to the Ambassador.
