ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	I received written answers from the Minister of Economic Affairs and Climate and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to questions asked in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	We continue with the budget Economic Affairs and Climate and Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, Part Economy and Climate, including Climate from the budget I&W and excluding Electric Transport and Digital Government. I would like to welcome all the participants. I would also like to welcome both directors. They've been able to think about the answers for almost 24 hours. We're gonna listen to them today. I have agreed with the esteemed participants that they will limit the number of interruptions to four per group this evening. That way, we should be able to close it pretty tight after midnight. I think we're gonna make it to 0:00, Mrs. Keijzer. Absolutely. But you didn't have to do the healthcare budget this year, so that's gonna save you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Mr President, just to clarify, you gave four interruptions in the first period, but then we may also have a second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	If we all do our best, we'll come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr President, through you I thank the spokesmen for all the questions. It was also a nice first round to hear from this place. There was a certain pride in what our country has achieved. It sounded confident in the future, but I don't want to impose that on anyone. It also sounded a deep concern about Groningen. There was a certain consensus in that regard. Frankly, we could also agree with that on this side. The Secretary of State and I intend to work with the fashionable cubes these days. I'll list them in a minute. During the debate we will notice that our portfolios are highly interwoven. There are many interfaces, in which we work together. That's not an accident, but it's meant to be. The Secretary of State and I, in the weeks we've been here, have discovered that we share a certain cheerfulness and a positive world view. We have a great deal of disgust against the waste of taxpayers' money. For the rest, we differ about everything. We are going to make maximum use of that. This means that we see a great deal of use in working together on all kinds of things. The fact that we differ so much is an extra happiness for me, because I personally do not have to think about having an Eric Wiebes next to me. So I'm very happy about that. Mr. Chairman. The cubes. After a certain introduction, about which later more, I start with the block "climate." Following on, I come to the climate agreement and the whole process. I'm dealing with the subject of cost-effectiveness. I would like to thank Mr Van der Lee for his question. He asked him a little by the way, but it's one of the most essential questions. I'm going to give him a comprehensive answer to that. Afterwards, the Climate Act will be discussed. Next, I come to everything about the energy agreement, including the netting arrangement. You have paid particular attention to the combi kettle, so it also comes along. That's all about the climate. Then I come to talk about Groningen. I come to the process I think I'm following, including the role of the NAM. Next I come to the sustainability in relation to Groningen. The extraction and extraction levels are the third subblock. Then there are some remaining questions about Groningen. So that's my second big block. The third block is "innovation." Afterwards I come to talk about the TO2 institutes and pps. I come to speak briefly about SMEs, but in doing so I form a duo with the Secretary of State. Finally, I come to the Wbso. All this will be dealt with within the innovation block. The Secretary of State then continues with entrepreneurship, both funding, staffing and digitalisation within entrepreneurship. That is the fourth big block we are going to talk about. Then digitization in general comes to the attention of the Secretary of State and, finally, she talks about start-ups and the regulatory burden. As the evening progresses, these portfolios become more and more entwined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	My suggestion would then be to do the interruptions after the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	That's a lot of time shortening, but that's what you're about, Mr. Chairman, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	Then it is useful if you wave a red or white flag when a block is finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	On some subjects, the sub-blocks are already large enough. I start with climate, but given the questions that have been asked, I still feel called to put a sort of sateprakker through it first in the introduction. Because there is one issue that has been raised by several spokesmen, which no one has directly asked questions about, which is at the heart of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy and which drives a significant part of the cabinet's choices, so I feel obliged to start with that. That subject, which has occasionally been mentioned in the questions, but rarely very explicit, is prosperity, our income. We are, of course, talking a lot about dividing and redistributing them and spending them, but I think it is useful because it is important for all those blocks to consider this prosperity. As several members of this Chamber have already stressed, Dutch prosperity is high. I measure it myself in purchasing power per head: "purchasing power per capita" in the jargon. If you then take the list of countries around the world and take the oil countries out of them, because they are cheating and the very small countries because we are not a very small country, then we are simply in the top five on earth in terms of purchasing power. That is where we stand and we are growing one and a half times as fast as the euro area. But that's just our income. We also have a very acceptable state debt for a Western country. We are already well below 60% and have twice saved our national income in the pension fund. That's the balance. That makes us an exceptionally prosperous country. The question that people abroad sometimes ask me is: how can that be? They, too, of course, have seen in the statistics that we in all OECD countries, together with three others, work about the least number of hours and then become the richest. This means that we are one of the countries on earth where the least work is done. It's not because of the climate either. When we found it here, it was one big mud pool. It's not that easy to defend. What's our recipe? Why am I asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	The VOC mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	Yeah, he might come by in other words, but what's our recipe? I think it is important to unravel our recipe, so that we can see later whether this recipe can withstand the great challenges of our time. Two of them are coming along and we are each going to talk about one of them. Or should we change recipes? For example, Mr Van Raan has proposed changing the recipe, so I can summarize his contribution. So it's important to look at our recipe. I want to pick out three things, but my synthesis of the recipe is a wonderful one, namely that we focus on everything at once. We can't, but we do. We focus on everything at once. I take three things out of it that we do very special, where not every country does that so special. We are consistent, and this has been very international for several centuries. We attract an incredible amount of foreign investment far above our fair share. We have four times as many companies in the Fortune 500 as our fair share would allow. We are almost in the absurd net exporters. Why would Greeks eat our tomatoes and cucumber? But they do. The anecdote is, I have discovered, that the Dutch cucumber grower can produce as many cucumbers as I weigh at one square meter per year. So you must think of me as a cucumber. And that is what we do every year. But it's unlikely that we'll eat those cucumbers down to Greece. So we are very international. The second point I would like to highlight is our climate of establishment. What are we committed to in our climate of establishment? Again: there is no other summary to make than this one, namely on everything. We train very well, also at the bottom of the labour market. We're very good at languages. It's safe here. It's affordable and pleasant to live here. We have the happiest kids on Earth. The institutions are reliable. If you want to establish a company here, you can, so to speak, visit the Minister of EZK within a week to discuss what kind of country it is here. Tax is fine, and we're gonna make that even more tidy. We do everything where many countries do one thing. We focus on everything. That's the second point and we're gonna see if that prescription still works. The third is that over the centuries we have become quite good at making our drawbacks an export product. We've gotten pretty good at that. We were below sea level, but that has given us a world-famous dredging and offshore sector. The fact that we were rather vulnerable at sea has given us a huge transport sector. And that we have so little space has given us the most efficient agriculture on earth, even in CO terms. So we've become so prosperous with that focus on everything; what we can't, but what we do anyway. Now all these things are very popular. When I look in that direction, the focus on the location climate is very popular, but on that international there are quite a few hooks and eyes. And when I look in that direction, there is quite a willingness to make some more concessions to the locational climate. Okay, that's true; in this room there are differences. We are more in agreement on taxation than we are now suggesting. But, Mr President, by chance this coalition of government consists of four parties that agree on all these things! That is what we think: a proper way of dealing with taxation and not in the wrong way. But we are all passionate about an attractive locational environment, for a pronounced international orientation, and we are all there that binds everyone in the Chamber perhaps to turn our disadvantages into an export product. Mr President, I believe there is an urgent need for an interruption, but I am not quite finished with the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	We are going to listen to the introduction, because we want to know more about a minister who calls himself a cucumber. Just a moment, Mr. Graus, you'll be the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	I have often had to stress in a previous profession that this prosperity never came naturally. That was a lot of work: blood sweat and tears. We've worked very hard for that. We made that prosperity here ourselves, because there was nothing. And the question now is whether our all-recipe still works, because there are two things coming to us. We've divided them fairly. One is digitization, and the Secretary of State does that. If you look at her portfolio with digitalization and competition and SMEs in it, she will probably have a greater impact on prosperity growth over the next few years than I do. But, in any case, digitisation is a major challenge and we will be discussing it shortly. The challenge that has ended up in my bowl is sustainability and climate. I will come to that later in my first block, because I would like to make it clear that these are big things. They are also very different, because the first one is a productivity increaser. ICT and digitalisation are a productivity increaser. The second is essentially, at first instance, a cost. Both of them have interesting distribution issues, but they are very different. I do not escape to outline what this sustainability, which is primarily a cost, means economically. Does our recipe still work here? I will have to make further use of that reasoning later, because that determines what we are going to do. The standard of living we have here as one of the five richest countries on earth is still largely based on that even Mr Van Raan will agree with me on a very wide availability of affordable energy. That's a pillar below our standard of living. We are using immensely more heat and computing power than when I was born, so to speak. And that cheap energy... Without tax, a liter of petrol is about as expensive as a brand of cola. It's almost beyond comprehension. And that standard of living, is my full conviction... I don't know if we're gonna take it back. I don't know if we can expect that from Dutch people. It's very easy to sustain. We turn the thermostat of prosperity down a degree, we turn off the petrochemical complex and it's settled. But I think that even a modest decline in prosperity is immediately affecting the basis for this operation. I just grew up with some of those soothing groceries myself. And many of you may remember. I'm gonna go back in history. We had a little something, remember? The thermostat is a degree lower; the belt is on. Is there any of you who dare to go to his electorate with that? Really: the belt on and the thermostat a degree lower? It may be that some... Well, Mrs. Van Tongeren's supporters are more resistant than mine, but I think this is going to be a battle. I think so. I am an optimist, because in the longer term I see once again the promise of a wide availability of affordable energy. I think so. I think that and if I follow it that way... Wind at sea five years ago was a technique where we 12.5 cents per kilowatt hour. 12.5 cents, five years ago. Now the prize goes to 4 cents. From 12.5 to 4 cents in five years. The new generations of sun-PV also do a lot more than before. At TU Delft I had lessons in sun-PV and it was proved to me that the theoretical yield of single-layer sun-PV, best students, never exceeds 27%. Well, now we are not only theoretical, but also practical above it. 'Cause you make them more layered, you invent something smarter. The thorium reactor isn't here yet, but he'll be here. I am one of the people who think: yes, those times of sufficient and affordable energy, they come again. It's okay if life stays fun. In addition, I think that if we do it in a different way, it will also bring another benefit. We all know how much pain it costs us now, also on my side, to see the energy bill rise by €35 a year. Then it is good to remember that the average car driver simply transfers €500 per year to the oil countries. That dependence on oil countries, we can get rid of that right away. And may I also mention it? Losing the dependence of Groningen gas would be so welcome! That package with, yes, enough energy again, and affordable, but not all from Groningen or from the oil countries, that is a world I believe in. But I'm gonna say right away, that's gonna be later. We still have a transition to go and that transition, honourable Members and present here, it costs money. These are costs, and costs are detrimental. Cost is detrimental, because they are suppressing consumption. The prosperity on paper doesn't affect that, but the consumer surplus is getting lower, because you buy something you didn't want. The consumer surplus, as you know, is monetarianized happiness. These costs can also replace productive investments. Then we'll be less prosperous with each other, so those costs aren't good. My point is that they are also extremely bad for support. I think some parts of our society say: I'm never really willing to go through that transition. Well, at least that's not where the acceptance depends on the cost. There are also people who say, "Whatever, I'm always willing to make that transition." That is not where the acceptance depends on the costs either. I think that three quarters of the Netherlands exists.That's also my personal belief.That's from people who actually, when you talk to them, see best that it's reasonable to take responsibility in something like the climate and see that we have to start now, because otherwise we might run a lot of risks that will affect them generations after that. But I don't think they're very willing to turn in anything for it. That is what we see in this Chamber in the discussions. Here is also an ordinary Dutchman, who thinks: so, that still costs money. This discussion, about how this transition costs money and affects our prosperity, our way of life, is the reason that the EZ is attached to the K. In the last debate, I have never heard the environmental spokesmen, climate speakers, talk so much about economics and the economic spokesmen have never heard so much about climate. So here we are. What's it gonna cost, the transition? The estimates are very different, very different. The estimates of the most efficient route during the transition period are that in that transition period, not afterwards, roughly 1% to 3% of national income, you have to calculate gross domestic product. 1% to 3%. Am I talking about the energy bill? No, I'm definitely not talking about that. Those are costs that land somewhere. Those countries with companies and those countries with households. Through the chain, costs of raw materials or companies eventually return to consumers and consumers are households again. So somehow we see that in inflation, in rent, in product costs and partly in taxes. That's what we see. So some of those costs will be invisible, but there is. The costs do exist. And that 1% to 3% sounds pretty low. Don't you think, 1% to 3%? What's 1% to 3%? 1% is a hundredth, but 1% to 3% is a lot to me. Even if I take the 1%, we're talking about 10% of our national healthcare costs. You know, the costs we always find so high. 1% to 3% is this year's economic growth. We reserve that for the next 30 years for a transition goal. 1% to 3% that's what we're doing. That's a pretty rough guess. That's more than a quarter of what we're spending on energy right now. 1% to 3% is a lot and that is still the most efficient route. Because it's not hard at all to put a factor on top of that. If we do it with our eyes closed and if we do it silly, we don't have at all 1% to 3%. We'll have a lot more. Then it gets really pricey. The conviction I want to express here is that this transition will only succeed if we keep everyone involved. This means first of all that we must try to steer innovatively towards a society with sufficient, this time sustainable, energy that is sufficiently affordable, because life must remain fun and, secondly, that we must be able to keep these transition costs limited, if we are to pay attention to the money. How am I going to talk in the block of "climate," but that's the job. Does the recipe fit in with that? In my opinion, excellent. Because that recipe was international focus. My plea is, therefore, that the coalition agreement supports me in this in order to keep an eye on the playing field. There's no point in hunting businesses across the border. There may be differences of opinion about climate in this room. Nobody should like it, because you have lost the jobs and the CO emissions continue, probably even worse than the Netherlands had been. So we've spent money and jobs for no effect. No one can be a fan of road leaks. So we have to keep an eye on the international position, because the climate has no boundaries. National CO balances are of no use to us. The coalition agreement says that we want to do this at European level or with a vanguard of European countries. Mrs Yeşilgöz has asked how we are going to do that. Well, that's what we're gonna do by keeping the playing field. We're gonna make sure we don't get a senseless leak, because it sounds like an open door. The second is the locational climate. Yeah, so we're gonna build on those strong sectors. And what's so funny is that climate demand lands exactly in sectors that we're strong at. Isn't that lucky! The agricultural sector must be able to innovate. And yes, the transport sector is expected a lot, but in transport we happen to be very good. Energy-intensive industry: we have a lot of energy, and it is very innovative in us. The offshore can also play a good role in this. In other words, we must ensure that it is precisely those sectors that make it happen here, but also elsewhere. And none in this room will avail against it any harm. But then it is good to realize that what one cost is for the other turnover. In short, in this introduction I invite everyone in this Chamber to participate in the all-strategy. The not-so-sustainable ones I invite to participate in the game and the others I invite to be innovative and to steer back to a society in which we also get the 70% that may have little left for it. I see the great trinity in front of me. This competition can only be won with three types: the engineer, the installer and the economist. And as a Delft bikemaker who is now on EZ, I feel connected to all three. So I would like to take on this challenge in such a way that life remains fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	That raises questions. Mr Graus was the first. But he renounces his interruption? No, I didn't. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr President, I would first like to say something of a domestic nature. People sometimes say: I do not like the debate to be heard because you always hear those miserable long speeches. You're all looking at the phone like bumper cars. I think there should be more interaction and we shouldn't listen for half an hour first. That's not good. I don't like having to wait so long with my questions. Then the sentence is lost. I want to be able to interrupt immediately if there's a problem. There is already a limit to four interruptions for us. I think it should stay a little exciting, too. The way we're doing it right now, it's really not gonna be worth hearing. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	But I think it is right for a minister, certainly a new minister, to give an introduction and to have him outline a wide playing field. Then we're gonna take care of him. You have the floor, ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	That's not the point, Mr. Chairman. The first words of the introduction appealed to me very much. Afterwards, the Minister carefully mentioned the playing field. But what I missed in the Minister's entire speech is the level playing field. You hear it from farmers, gardeners, fishermen, big companies, aviation, shipping. For 11 years I have heard all these people and entrepreneurs say: there is no level playing field, that does not exist with us. They say: we are at the forefront of everything, we have the biggest national heads on top of everything, we are always at the front of the European Union as the best child in the classroom, and there is no level playing field. The questions have been answered in writing, so I shall now have to anticipate them a little bit. Now the low VAT rate will also be increased. So that level playing field is getting even more uneven. I would have liked to hear about that from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	I replied in writing. VAT rates have also been discussed in detail in the treatment of the Tax Plan. I think we should not repeat that debate. This has little to do with the playing field versus Greece and with those cucumbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	Well, I mentioned that level playing field as an example, but I also mentioned other issues in my speech. I've also talked about burdens, rules, and you name it. I've talked about everything. And that's where the pain really is. In 11 years of parliamentary membership, I have heard most of that from the entrepreneurs I speak to. They all say it. They're always talking about an uneven playing field. And every time rulers say that there is no such thing and it's all perfect. But I hear the same thing every time. That's what I'd like to know. By the way, I thought it was funny: Minister cucumber. I had heard earlier in the evening that a little child had been watching old movies by Peppi and Kokki. You remember that from our time, Mr. Chairman. That baby thought the minister looked like Kokki of Peppi and Kokki. So it's gonna be a very funny minister this way, with cucumbers and Peppi and Kokki. I liked that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	I'd like a response from the Minister. You may begin your answer with "Toot toet, boing boing."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	If I may choose, I'd prefer Peppi and Kokki.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, I'm kind of stuck with that picture of those cucumbers in my head right now, too. I can't help it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	75 kilos of cucumbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	Yes, 75 kilos, so the supreme cucumber of the climate is now in front of us! I heard his story. I appreciate the optimism. I share the optimism with him, too. I also share the point about the transformation of energy, which we used six times more energy in the previous energy revolution. We will probably allow that again now, with renewable energy. But there really is a gap between us. You make a wonderful speech about what the Netherlands is and does and how we are going to do it, of everything at once. Very well, but you are ignoring the impact our way of life has on the planet. This is missing once in the Minister's introduction. I like that because that means that he says: we keep the recipe, but we're gonna change it a little bit. That's the big difference. Does the Minister recognise that he completely ignores the impact of the Netherlands in the world and the predatory work that is being carried out there? In addition, I do not want to detract from his optimism that I share, once again, with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	I am glad, however, that I got Mr Van Raan in a somewhat more optimistic position, because I found his first term very worrying. We agree that a great ambition must be pursued when it comes to climate, because where there are limits to how we can grow and how we can live, climate change is such a limit. We therefore agree that we must do this in a sustainable way. I am not talking about what we should do, because that is already known, and that is what the coalition agreement says, but we should do it. I can see we're getting closer to each other there. That would please me, because I prefer Mr Van Raan to be a little more cheerful than yesterday's gloomy mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	I share that with the Minister. I would also prefer to see myself happier than in a gloomy mood, but that has not so much to do with what the Minister thinks. That has just to do with how, for example, science thinks about the state of the planet. I therefore very much like the way in which the division is made between the Secretary of State and the Minister, i.e. the robotisation and the climate. We can then all follow exactly what Philipp Blom said about it in his book What is at stake. That's exactly what the dichotomy's gonna do. Does Mr. Wiebes know that book? It is good to see that the same principles lead to very different conclusions. Again, I am not gloomy about the optimism with which we have to tackle it, but I am extremely gloomy about this minister if he thinks that he can just leave the recipe intact in everything he does and turn a little bit on a few buttons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	I think the most important part of my story was about the transition. A transition is done not to leave a recipe intact but to do it in a different way. My story is that once again we should strive for sufficient energy, but this time sustainable. The other recipe is so different that it requires a rather heavy transition. My warning is that we must ensure that this is as controlled as possible and that we can keep it affordable, otherwise large parts of this society will drop out. And that's what I'm afraid of. Moreover, as I said at the beginning, there are two rulers here who both believe that taxpayers' money should be well spent and not wasted. So the costs are just important. I think that Mr Van Raan agrees with me, because he also knows that perhaps his supporters will not stop but too many of them will if we do not do so in a good way. There's a job here. Mr President, I can start with the following issue: climate and energy. I'll start with the climate agreement. Why a climate agreement anyway? Why don't we just do what we think should be done? That's because a transition isn't a government thing. The government doesn't produce electricity either. The government doesn't innovate. The government is also a limited user. There are public roles, certainly: direction, legislation, financial instruments. But where it's the government, it's not just the Empire. Where it is the Empire, it's not just EZK. I have several colleagues who have to take part in this. So that calls for an agreement, because it is not just me, and it is not just you. As far as I'm concerned, the coalition agreement is the basis, but it is also a whole Dutch product. I've said before: Dutch as a slipper. 'Cause it's a positive exchange. It took a while, but it's a positive exchange. The ambition is sky high. Everyone has their own story. One calls it his explanation of liberalism, the other calls it stewardship or the Creator. We all have a different way of achieving the same goal. We have put cost-effectiveness on top of that, to achieve that goal in a non-ideological way. We have also thrown a hint of polder over it. In France with Macron, we would do it in a different way, but we will do it with such a climate agreement. I am talking about a climate agreement, because the previous agreement was on energy and was called an energy agreement. This is about climate, so I call it the climate agreement. But these agreements are quite different. In the energy agreement came the goal of the Economic and Social Council, not of the government or of a coalition agreement. That is the case here. Since it did not come from the government, there were also few prizes awarded afterwards for the democratic legitimization of the energy agreement in its previous form. Here it really comes from the coalition agreement. There is one goal: the climate goal of the climate agreement; that 49%. That means we have to steer hard on public interest. It is not about the interests of the participants. That is what the energy agreement was essentially about in such a SER setting. I have participated in it myself and looking back I sometimes say to myself: Eric Wiebes, you could have done that differently in your role. But I didn't. As a result, in some respects it has been a bit of a celebration of advocacy organisations. I think you should expect that from me here, but I don't want to put anything in your mouth. The public interest should be guarded. This means that the government should not only take the lead, but should also set goals and provide frameworks. It is not intended that there should be an agreement between the parties to make it twice as expensive as necessary. I'm pretty keen on the public interest here. The public interest is paramount. It's from society. In addition, there are a few degrees of freedom. In the case of an agreement on climate change, we must be able to talk about this. We must also have degrees of freedom. But the target stands. Let me put it this way. I'm not gonna go over the percentage. It may be that with the ambitions in Europe there will eventually be a different percentage, but I am not going to negotiate the percentage. Nor am I going to negotiate the passage in the coal-fired power station coal agreement. The coal plants are leaving. I have sent a letter on this subject with rather firm measures, to make it clear that this is not negotiable. But all kinds of other things, of course. I certainly think every sentence in the coalition agreement is brilliant at this stage, but if anyone comes up with a better idea than a brilliant idea, then I am never against it. You shouldn't be either. So we have to offer those degrees of freedom. If some insights fall out differently, they fall out differently and then we're going to do something else, because we want the cheapest and smartest route to 2050. I think with five tables I call it sectors, but those are the ones that are not going to work: generation, heavy industry, everything with the built environment and low temperature heat; the agricultural sector must be clearly addressed and the transport sector is not off the hook either. But that is not enough, because those tables are vertical and coincidentally all the sensible questions in this Chamber were about the horizontal links, for example the spatial link, which concerns Mr Moorlag. He says, "Oh, they're rather space-eaters, shouldn't we coordinate that somehow; shouldn't something wise happen there?" Yes, that's true, because you can't use one part of the Netherlands in three ways. Space is one. I am grateful to Mr Moorlag for that. Innovation is one. I think it was Mr Veldman who said: make sure there are no obstacles. No, because there are a lot of them. We're inventing something new, and since the law was based on something old, something new can't happen. We must, of course, avoid this as soon as possible. I am therefore grateful to Mr Veldman for his suggestion. Funding is one. I believe that the question of financial instruments has been raised by several Members. Mr Van der Lee has asked for this. Mr Moorlag came on for a moment. I think Mrs Dik-Faber has asked questions about it. A lot of things depend on funding and also have a bottleneck in funding. Mr Van Raan has asked for this. The Platform for Sustainable Financing exists, but it really needs to play a firm role. Not only banks, but also pension funds need to develop creative forms of financing in a variety of ways to make this possible. In the field of staff we also see a bottleneck, on the technical side alone. When it comes to SMEs, the Secretary of State wants to play a strong role in helping solve bottlenecks there. These are all cross-links and they must also be lively and active. We also need a guarantee, of course, but what will be very central here is the roll-out. We can all think of things, but if we don't give the order to an implementing organisation to go after them all the time and hammer everyone on their heads, then nothing will come of it. I therefore believe that an implementation organisation will be built for this purpose, which will operate at least until 2030. Just to finish that calendar every time, remind everyone of their commitments and clear out the bottlenecks. This, of course, also means something for rulers among themselves. Several speakers have asked for this. Look, we'll keep our heads up. There is a formal directional role at BZK, but I have to deal with just three colleagues who are acting on their own to do so. It's being pulled hard. It will not be up to us, but to get the rest of society along, we need that implementation organisation. I believe that this was a concern of Mr Van der Lee and Mr Jetten. They have both asked how we are going to ensure that all departments or colleagues are involved. Then there must be a government commitment. It must be clear what the boundaries, the frameworks and the goals of each of these tables are. I think this should be made clear somewhere early next year. It would be nice if we already know where it is going on the main lines in the summer. Then there's probably a lot to work out, not from that, but we should be able to get some sort of picture of where this is going in the summer. This means that we must also organise democratic legitimacy better than in the past. We actually missed that a little bit back then. It was another building. It was just down the road. So I can imagine that I'll discuss the stakes here first. Then we can all talk about it. Then something comes out and then, I think, it is up to you to entrust me with the result. And then we can talk about it again. But let us agree to try to avoid that democratic deficit last time. Then there are all other substantive ambitions that I would have with that agreement, but in order not to silence Mr Graus for too long, I think I might have to skip that. After all, the evening must also remain a bit manageable. So I will try to control my substantive begeisterung a little bit. Mr. Chairman. That was the deal. Next comes a sub-cop and then something about cost-effectiveness and so on. But I see that Mr Moorlag...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	I actually wanted to do that after those big blocks, but the block 'climate' is so big that otherwise it takes a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	Oh, it's not that bad. It's smaller than the other, by the way, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	Well, I can try. But Mr Moorlag is eager now, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, we know him. He is recognizable by his youthful enthusiasm. I call Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister's start did confuse me a bit. In my opinion, the definition of a good sermon is that it is extremely gloomy in content and has a hopeful end. But here a start has already been made with the hopeful end. Apart from that, the Minister has just outlined that he will first come to the Chamber with a commitment. I suspect this will be at content level. Yesterday I asked very strongly about the process architecture, as it is called very chic. I have expressed my concerns, for example, whether the trade union movement and the nature and environmental organisations are sufficiently involved, whether there is an eye and attention to funding and the labour market, and whether it is wise that the Minister himself should take charge of this because he is going to be a party, whereas he should actually be above the parties. My question to the Minister is whether he's willing to let me just use the fancy word once more and send the process architecture to the Chamber. It should include how he is going to organise that process, with the participants and all the points I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	I think I have already tried to serve Mr Moorlag in this, but I obviously have not been clear. I have talked about the main lines of the direction and the financing table, but I also said that I would like to present the mandate, the mandate and the structure to this Chamber at the beginning of next year. It is clear that it is not wise to let me chair those tables. I'd like to tell you. Sectors have to do that themselves. If we as a government have to wait with all the substantive issues, it will not be there, because the government is not a electricity producer, a chemical producer, a transport company and so on. We have to let the sectors do their job. That's gotta be government-controlled. If I have completed exactly how that is put together, I will share it with the Chamber at the request of Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	Will the Minister then give the comfort that the natural and environmental organisations and the trade unions really come to the table in advance? That has been a bit of a flaw here and there in the previous process. Does he also want to indicate a clear schedule? In the first term, I also said that if you want to achieve CCS in 2030, you must now start to reflect on what steps are needed to make it fly at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	I couldn't agree more. Let me promise you I'll just write this out and send it to the Chamber. What is 'full at the table' is then for Mr Moorlag's assessment. I'm talking about "cost-effective" all the time. It was mentioned in passing, but I have to give Mr Van der Lee a comprehensive answer to this. Nevertheless, I will try to do it briefly. What is the relevant cost perspective? It may seem that this means doing things that are now cheap. You might think so. What's cheap now, I don't know. Probably lower the thermostat a little bit. What's the right cost perspective is the lowest social cost -- not just government -- to reach that goal by 2050. So that means that sometimes you're forced to start earlier because otherwise you won't make it. May I cite the built environment as an example? In doing so, it is cost-effective to start on time. It also means that you take into account the innovation potential, but you also recognise that there is an innovation need here and there and that you therefore need to set things in motion to innovate. It also means that you pay attention to coherence. If you combine all kinds of measures because they're cheap, but they don't fit together and they don't provide a good energy system, then that's also silly. I grew up with the abatment curve, as we call it. This fits in there. This was quite a while ago, but once I made an occupation curve for road safety. That's what you owe all those rotten food on 80 km roads. But this fits in there. So I'm just arguing for an intelligent cost perspective. Not relevant is the cheapest way to meet today's standards. The financial return of a measure that will soon be needed is not decisive either. That's not the point. The intelligent perspective is: the cheapest way to meet the standards of later, and that requires something, because that is not how many parties think. You can have a conversation with a housing corporation, and it says: it's not profitable. Then I say: yes, but wait a minute, if you know you have to get out of there by 2050, is it wise now to do half a renovation, so you have to do it again later? That can't be the result of the calculation. It requires an intelligent cost perspective, and that is the cost-efficiency perspective that I am trying to pursue. That is my answer to Mr Van der Lee's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you to the Minister for his comprehensive introduction and explanation of cost-effectiveness. The problem is that this is something my party said 27 years ago. If the Minister's party had also listened to it then, we would have been farther, at lower costs in achieving goals that we now want to achieve. If you are talking about cost-effectiveness and social costs, I have told you: opt not only for maximum effectiveness per euro, but also for maximum justice per measure. Quite specifically, I would like the Minister's undertaking that once there is a climate and energy agreement, there will also be an analysis of burden-sharing and the need for compensation, for example through income policy, to ensure that everyone is included in this huge transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	I think this is going to be easy, because I think Mr Van der Lee and I agree that the Netherlands has a tradition of half a century now to put purchasing power images together in August to take all these things, including the energy transition, explicitly into account, in the models, to make sure that we know what happens to groups. This coalition agreement even makes all the groups progress, so the answer to that question is yes. Then there is the second question. I have promised Mr Van der Lee that he will revisit and re-examine the restrictions on the competitiveness of companies. That's what he gets from me; that's what we're working on right now, at his request, a sensible request, I can't say otherwise, so that's what we're doing. But we must realise that the images of income distribution and purchasing power are made integral, because if we do that for a part, it does not work, so in that sense: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	Thank you, Mr President, for allowing me to go through with this and also thank you for the commitment, but we all know that there is a difference in the period you are looking at. The Central Planning Bureau looks forward four years. The purchasing power figures are there for the next financial year, while this is a structural transition, with long-term effects, of which we need to know in the long term how the lusts and burdens will work out. This requires a more in-depth analysis, precisely in order to prevent the focus on cost-effectiveness by 2030 from further ignoring the target by 2050, so it should also be long-term. I hope that the Minister will also make a commitment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	Now we're getting two things mixed up, I guess. We are not going to use the type of cost-effectiveness that leaves 2050 out of the picture, because that is not cost-effective. We just talked about that. I've seen Mr. Van der Lee nod. I think we agreed on that. In fact, if we have a cup of coffee about it, we still agree. That can't go wrong. The perspective is right, but the question is whether we're making it happen. We're gonna try very hard, but we really don't mean anything else. The distribution of these costs is something else, but that has nothing to do with its level. Making something more expensive does not have a blessing effect for the distribution. We agree that the distribution needs to be looked at, but at the level of income and purchasing power. That's the place to do it. I would like to go a little further than Mr Van der Lee, because it is not just about the energy bill, because that is just a particle. It's landing everywhere. Everything that ends up in businesses eventually comes back to us, because we are ultimately the paying households and citizens here. That is all going to come to us, and that is something we must take into account. I didn't just keep my introduction for nothing. I'm warning you about those charges, too. I think they're high. I think it's important. We must be vigilant and watchful all the time, otherwise the Netherlands will fail. That's my belief. So, yeah, we're gonna look at that every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	The Minister sketches the picture that we need to look closely at social costs. The government of course also has a role in this, a role in which we are launching customer. We are also looking at whether we can finance unsustainable summits by getting into something ourselves. In the end, this makes it more attractive for market players to step in as well. I asked the Minister about this. I was just wondering if he was going to go into that further. When's he gonna come back to that? I imagine that you are looking at this in the field of energy transition and circular economy, and you are not just putting it in the coalition agreement. The central coordinating minister should then take this up with all these ministries, for example by making their own buildings more sustainable. We need the National Real Estate and Development Company for that again. I can also imagine that, for everything that is not currently funded by market players, we will have a higher risk perception at Invest-NL, so that things do come about. This could be done by acting more like a participating government, for example by working with an EBN construction or an FMO construction. Will the Minister answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	Those are all things we could do. I think Mrs Mulder is referring here to the SBIR instrument. The government can do that in all kinds of ways. Yeah, it's true that the government will have to do the same to itself. We do have buildings, so we have to participate. That must be done, but that does not, in my view, affect that distribution very much. It's more of an innovation tool. I would like to go back under the heading 'innovation' on all these innovation instruments, but there is no doubt that the government must also look at itself. I can't put a hole in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	Why do I say this specifically to the Minister? If you take a very sec approach to costs, it can certainly be the case in the case of tenders that you take a measure or take a call for tenders which may seem to be beneficial now, but which is not beneficial to all of us in the long term. In the eyes of the CDA, things are still going wrong there at the moment. I would, however, like to see the Minister, together with the Secretary of State, move forward in order to take steps that will lead us all forward. When you tender a building, you also include the long-term maintenance. For example, we see this happening in Eindhoven. Then maybe not even a construction company, but an installer takes care of the whole thing and then we just make appointments for 15 years. I hope, however, that we will apply the latest techniques and innovations, not only in terms of price, but also in terms of the long-term impact. And I sometimes miss that in government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	I dare go a little further. I think the example I just gave shows that I do not only miss that occasionally in government policy, but at all. Of course, it has always been useful and obvious to explain the concept of cost-effectiveness in such a way that it is the cheapest way to meet today's standards. But we must get rid of the idea that something is efficient if it is the cheapest way to meet today's standards. I agree with Mrs Mulder. We have to go somewhere in 2050. Then the question is not "what is the cheapest way to meet your needs now?', But "what's the cheapest way to get there?" If we do things now that will require us to open up again in 20 years' time, it will probably not be very efficient. That is what we must change. I agree with Mrs Mulder, but I do say that this is not only the case with the government. That's true of all the players in the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	The Minister insists on social costs and he talks about cost-effectiveness. That is understandable, because you can only spend your euro once, and that has to be done in the best possible way. But how does the Minister look at manure fermentation, for example? I said yesterday that in ten years' time 2.5 billion has been spent on this. That generates marginal energy. Feed from South America, corn, garbage, grass: it's all put in. If you're going to see what it's getting, it turns out this is very little. And that against the 2.5 billion in cost. Isn't that a waste of money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	I have no other view of this than that I am currently relying on the considerations made by the Planning Office for the Environment. Once again, if there are ideas that prove to be better than the brilliant ideas of the coalition agreement, then I do not recommend it, but at the moment I have no deeper views that go beyond what the PBL has written about it. It is not yet a result of a climate agreement, because there is no outcome of a climate agreement. Let me put it this way: Mr Wassenberg's concerns are clearly articulated, but I do not yet have any views on them other than those in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	Then let me ask you a question. Can we get an overview from the Minister of what it has achieved over the past ten years? Then as a Chamber, we can make that cost-benefit analysis ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	The cost-benefit analyses are now generally made by the Planning Office for the Environment. I cannot answer Mr Wassenberg's question, because it is not in my area of policy. So I cannot tell him what that has resulted in, but I can pass on the question to Mrs Schouten, the minister responsible for this. Mr. Chairman. Very briefly. I do not think we need to say much about it, simply because I do not have much to say about it, although the Chamber will already know a lot about it. It has been asked by Mr Moorlag, Mr Jetten and Mr Van der Lee: the Climate Act. I have no choice but to answer fairly procedurally. I am in and out of conversation with the initiators and trade with them in accordance with the government agreement, because it reports a climate law. Mr Van der Lee said in his previous speech: we said that 25 years ago. At least I say it here: this is what he called two years ago. It is now in the coalition agreement; I can congratulate him on that. As far as I am concerned, he deserves to be able to put his name here with those of the other applicants, but we are not exactly talking about that. I'll come back with that. Several questions have been asked about the current energy agreement, including the energy saving of 100 petajoules, which we have not yet fully achieved and which we would bring in with the Environmental Management Act. We've agreed on an approach to this before, and we've tried it. Has that already led to the desired result? The answer is "no," we can establish. No. The accelerations and improvements we've made before are still insufficient. It's already in the system, for starters. This does not provide sufficient opportunities for effective enforcement. That means we have to look at the system again. I think we should move towards a system in which we prescribe much more precisely what measures are involved. Then we will no longer have to scratch our heads in esoteric and complicated sessions while wondering what this law might mean, but then we will know from paper what measures are supposed to be taken. I think that we need to work through some form of reporting and some kind of reversal of the burden of proof, because it is very important that we achieve this. That's what it depends on. If we work with this reverse burden of proof, it will also make supervision more efficient. That means a clear legal obligation. I just think the combination makes sense. Enforcement without a change in the system simply doesn't work and I can imagine that a change in the system without enforcement doesn't work either. An amendment has been tabled on this; I think I should look at Mr Van der Lee again. I think we should try to change both the system and the budget for this. I am also inclined to do so because, in my opinion, it was Mr Van der Lee who was so intelligent to play the ball on my own territory. If a measure recoupes in five years, read: a 20% return; you don't just get it, not on the bank, it's definitely cost-effective. In fact, the social costs are, of course, negative. So, yeah, this has to be done. I agree with him. That's what it is. Another point connected with the energy agreement is the netting system. There's a lot of interest in that. Four Members have asked questions about this, but I would like to give the kick-off to Mrs Mulder, who brought this up two weeks ago. She even summoned me a call. Now Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Jetten and Mrs Dik-Faber have asked questions about this. What the hell is going on? I'm gonna have to put that down anyway. There seems to be a bit of a wrong reading coming from the plan. The netting arrangement for solar PV is attractive for individuals. There is a payback period of seven years, read: a return of almost 15%. That's attractive. At the same time, however, this regulation is extremely illogical in substance. The subsidy we actually give on solar PV is actually the taxes we impose on electricity. That's a greatness that has nothing to do with it, because you usually base a subsidy on the uneconomic top. So the subsidy and the uneconomic summit have nothing to do with each other. It's attractive now and it's working at your service, but as taxes and the ODE go up, so the subsidy goes up while the unprofitable top drops because sun PV is getting cheaper. It is an increasingly clumsy measure. That payback period therefore goes from seven years to, for example, four years. That is all very well, but the budget is up to 300 million and the cost per tonne is also up to almost €300 per tonne. That then yields a financial return of 25%, but at some point that gets a little weird. So the stakes are not to make it more unattractive than they are now. In fact, the commitment is to maintain the attractiveness, but to keep the instrument manageable. In itself, the subsidy has nothing to do with the uneconomic summit, it is a strange thing. It's worked for a while, but it's running into its own limits now. My commitment is to keep it just as attractive. This means that we need to make it a subsidy scheme, so it remains attractive. I would like to come up with a proposal before the summer of 2018, but I would like to say that this means that the existing cases, which had expected a pay-back period of seven years, are about to be realised. That is what they went for, and the new scheme is also intended for the payback period. So I would like to reiterate the encouragement I gave to the potential Sun PV customer over Mrs Mulder's head at the time: do not be reluctant with sun PV, because the change is precisely intended to maintain the attractiveness of today. That's what it's aimed at. I hope that this will remove any confusion or uncertainty, because I sincerely hope that we will continue with what we have been doing. This is about the netting arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u51	I can very well follow the Minister's argument. It has also been agreed in the coalition agreement. Nevertheless, I see that despite the good words of the Minister, who is also clear as far as I am concerned, there is still uncertainty and that there are large civil society organisations, such as Urgenda and the Association of the Home Office, the Minister undoubtedly knows them all who oppose them. I wonder how we can clarify what is going to happen in the years to come, because it seems to me as if there is some uncertainty, a bit unclear, and that also creates resistance. I think that if we put the message clearly, there will be more understanding... Well, the Minister understands what I'm trying to say. It's been a long day!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u52	Sure. You say "it's been a long day," but it's gonna be a long day. Thank you for this suggestion. If it's resistance because it's unclear, I have to do something with it now. That's my promise. I don't know how yet, but if organisations are unclear, then I have to get rid of that, because that uncertainty is really bad. There is also another type of resistance, namely resistance because it is clear. People just can't agree with it. It's crystal clear, but people don't agree. Let me try to separate the first category from the second category. The message given to me by Mrs Dik-Faber does not please me, but I am grateful to her for the warning. Let me try to approach the key organisations that play a role in this one way or another, to ensure that the ambiguity of the first species disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u53	I welcome these words from the Minister. I also assume that it will take place in the short term, in some form of consultation, so that at least one of the two groups mentioned by the Minister will have more clarity about the plans that are to come. Then these organizations won't have to wait until the summer. In this way, we can tempt citizens to continue investing in solar PV, because we really need everyone for the transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u54	Clear. I've been doing a few more things in the "climate" block. Mrs Mulder and Mr Jetten have asked me very strongly how we should deal with the phase-out of the classic CV in favour of the new techniques that are coming. I see two routes. In the climate agreement, together with the governance agreement, we must make clear how we are going to heat houses. Those are the heat plans. They're different for every neighborhood. We can do it with a heat grid. Then you have to do something completely different with your resume boiler. We can do it with geothermals. You have all kinds of heat pump technology. It can be done with green gas. We have to make it clear what we expect. That's what the municipalities are going to do. They make those heat plans. That helps, because then the local government can start telling people when something's going on. Gas stops. At some point, someone has to tell people. Someone has to say: in such and so many years there will be another heating situation in your neighborhood; that's what you're going to do in this neighborhood. This means that municipalities in this case, by making that clear, inform people of what they should do. The perspective of action is now, of course, completely unclear. What do you want? I wouldn't know what to do on my street now either, because I haven't seen a heat plan from my community. The second point is that the achievement of the climate agreement depends to a large extent on, for example, the installation industry. The Secretary of State will say a few specific words about this later. In this climate agreement with the sector, I think it would be conceivable not only to agree on training issues but also to agree on the information role for the consumer. What are you gonna do if that résumé kettle is broken? You call the installer and he says this or that has to happen. Yeah, you don't know a lot if you didn't happen to graduate in resumes. In my view, we have two points of view there, both of which must lead us to start heating according to the heat plans, not with classic boilers, and people know well in advance that there is no point in buying such a thing, but that it has to be different. Mr President, this was the 'climate' block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u55	I would like to ask a further question about funding. We have already talked about costs and cost-effectiveness. It's not just cost, it's investment. In the long run, these investments will actually be profitable. The Minister himself spoke about the enormous capital we have built up in the Netherlands. The pension funds invest 1,200 billion outside the Netherlands. Is the Minister prepared to conclude an agreement with pension funds and possibly other financial institutions, such as banks, to see whether they can invest more of their capital in the Dutch energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u56	What I have just outlined is that a very important element is called it a horizontal table in that climate agreement which are financiers. Then it is not just about the parties at the table, to create for them the conditions under which they want to step in. We can all think that, in some way, Invest-NL could have a role in this. Then it is also a question of considering what kind of financing structures and financing applications fit in any area. From this combination we must be able to ensure that funding is provided. I will never, ever, be the one who prescribes to a pension fund how to invest this money. But I would count myself among the eager ones when it comes to creating attractive opportunities, so that capital, which in itself is simply looking for destinations, can also be invested in them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u57	I interpret that as a "yes." I would like to add one more request, namely whether the Minister would also like to consult with his colleagues in the finance sector, because financial institutions also have another problem, which is related to the energy transition. That's their fossil portfolio. There is still a considerable downgrading to be made. There's real costs there, too. I hope that we can get a picture of this and that the Minister will understand himself with his colleagues to look at it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u58	Thank you for the comprehensive answer, both in writing and now orally. I would like to ask for two written answers, first of all about extra wind at sea. I asked yesterday when the Minister could identify additional places for windmills at sea. The answer is: sufficient wind energy areas have already been identified to enable the contribution of wind energy at sea as indicated in the coalition agreement. But that same coalition agreement also states: we are increasing the supply of lots for wind at sea. So my question is: how am I supposed to reconcile this very clear rule in the coalition agreement with the written reply I received from the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u59	That's a good question. I think the answer will have to come in the second term, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u60	Well, I'm looking forward to that, Mr. Chairman. My other question on the written answer concerns geothermal energy. I am pleased that the Minister has indicated that he is already making an opportunity map for geothermal energy. That's what I like to look forward to. But the written answer also says: I am investigating whether a role of EBN as a participant in geothermal projects is possible and in what way it can be filled in. That is a very nice sentence, but Mrs Van Tongeren already had that commitment from Minister Kamp in 2013. My question to the Minister would not be whether EBN can participate, but how we are going to ensure that EBN can take on that participation role in geothermal energy in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u61	I do not have the answer to the latter either. Let me look at what kind of roles, including those of EBN, are appropriate in the further development. They need to be arranged at the table at some point in such a climate agreement to ensure that something happens. So I'm gonna show this as an incentive, and when I design the assignment I'm gonna send to the Chamber, I'm gonna let it come back somehow. Dan Groningen... no, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'd like to ask you about the pension funds. You're kind of soft on that. You say that I make it a little attractive and then the pension funds will invest. But you can be a little firmer in the conversation and more or less encourage pension funds to invest more in the Netherlands, in our young people and also in the start-ups and the climate? Surely that can be a little more firm than what you just indicated, in the vein of: let's make ourselves a little more attractive for that investment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u63	I'd rather choose to offer than encourage. Why? Because this is not about public money, which we can decide here in this Chamber or in the Cabinet. What we're talking about here is investments for the pension of all of us. We know that the pension is under pressure. We know that investment results are not always going through the roof. I really would not be prepared to impose or impose obstacles on pension funds in one way or another, because we want to invest the money in a way that is not in the interests of the pensioner. I think it is a good thing that 50PLUS is not in the Chamber, because he might protest against it. Let me do that on behalf of the generation that is now in retirement, because I do not think that we should deal with our pension funds in this way. But the promotion, I won't forget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u64	The idea behind the pension is that at the moment you're strong and able to work, you put money aside to have some income later, at the moment you're weak. That's the thought. It used to go from father to son or mother to daughter, but now you just see that a lot of young people who want to start a business and do fantastic things don't have the money to do it. They don't get the money for that from a bank or an investor. At the same time you can see that the money of the father or grandfather is invested somewhere in the world but not here in the Netherlands, while we need it here in the Netherlands. I think that the pension funds need the Cabinet in many ways and that you can use it to say to them: I do want to help and support you on a number of points, but for this I ask a little more of you than you are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr President, the answer I would give would be the same as the previous answer. I do not think that we should do that, but I invite Mr Öztürk to report to the person who goes about this from the Empire, and that is my colleague in Finance. But I'm preparing him for a disappointment: he could get the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u66	Very good. We're going to Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u67	We're going to Groningen. I have said before that I am now forced to regard it as my top priority. I've also called it a government failure in all kinds of ways, because that's what it is. There are all kinds of governments involved and the government certainly is involved. But where are we now? Damage clearance's stopped. The reinforcement is not fast enough and there are also some doubts about the direction in which it is developing. A vision of how we can use this to solve other challenges at the same time is not at present sufficiently concrete. There is, of course, an extensive discussion about the level of extraction, even in the legal sense. And the administrative structure: I'm still studying, but I'm not quite sure yet. Those governments are now on the move and perhaps the government in the first place. I've been there a few times now and I have to say that that affects me and that it makes me more fanatic too. But the task is great. You're standing there and you're thinking, "Well, you have to do everything at once." It is difficult to find two parties or two people who agree on everything. There's a big job there, and here's a very small man, and that's me. I have to, but... One of my heroes was and is Camp, my predecessor. Not only was he very busy with this, he was also emotionally involved. I know, because I was involved with him. If he's come this far, how could I possibly get further? It's big, but a few things are clear. Business as usual is not an option. Fixing one thing isn't an option either. Everything has to be done at the same time. The first is that the NAM has asked Mrs Van Tongeren to leave. The NAM's assessment of the extent of the damage does not help us in our handling. The judgment of the NAM on how the reinforcement should run in an individual or a collective case does not help either, and the level of extraction has come to a point where it is clear that this is a responsibility of the Empire. Look, the NAM remains financially liable, of course, but the Empire gets in. I don't know if I'm looking forward to this new responsibility, but I have to. What's most urgent is the damage protocol. It has to be now, and I'm working on it now. The more you get into it, the less easy it gets, but it has to be now. I also said in Groningen that I can't give guarantees and they can't, but if that didn't happen in January, then I'm going to worry about the file even more. Then we have the Damage Fund, we have the reinforcement, the organization and the entire customer handling. Who are you treating how? How do you make sure the lead time is easy? How do you make people clear? What is the administrative structure? Then we'll get the gas building. It's a huge project. I admit, honestly, that I started to think about it a little in a consultative way. We make it a structured and ultimately quite large project, with explicit collaboration with the province and municipalities. Public authorities must do this together and civil society organisations must be connected. Not just because they have interests. Interests may and must always be heard, but it is not enough to have the interests at the table. You just need the knowledge, too. There's a bay of knowledge of everything that could go wrong. I say honestly that the people I have spoken to so far have been very frustrated in some cases, but they have been constructive discussions in all cases. So that's the conversation we need to have. I would also add that it is almost large, but because of the structure we have been in so far, it is not easy for the Empire to regain position. This is necessary in the areas I have just outlined, but the organisation was very small on the part of the Empire because of the structure for which it was chosen. The laundry was out the door. We had a Centrum Safe Living, we had the National Coordinator Groningen, the provinces, the municipalities. Everyone was busy with it. Hundreds of people were working on it, but not in the department in The Hague. So we are now in the process of capacity building in a very fast manner. The transformation of strategy also requires a different manslaughter. It's a job. I have fallen into it, but at the same time I can do nothing but try to hurry and be open and honest with everyone. By the way, that also means that I have to give a warning once in a while. I will repeat one here too. If the NAM gets away, it's a big deal for many of them. I fully support that, but the fact that the NAM gets away doesn't mean that the sky is the limit. It means we're no longer bound by the NAM's judgments, but we're still a government. It's still about the public interest. We're not a private organization that can give because it's fun to give. We must do justice to Groningers with material damage and with intangible damage, but we must also do justice to everyone. We need to be able to explain to everyone who gets something, why they get it, and we need to be able to explain to people who get nothing, why they don't get anything. And then we have to be able to explain that to the rest of the Netherlands. So it's not like the sky is the limit. We are a government that must act reasonably, and that means that there will be another border somewhere. I don't know where it is yet, but there's a ceiling somewhere. There's no other way. And that's why we're going to have another discussion at some point, here too, about what we think is reasonable. Not everything is reasonable. I'm just saying, the NAM's gonna be out soon. We will no longer have the discussion with the NAM, we will have the discussion in democracy, here for example, about what is reasonable. Because not everything is reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u68	I have heard from the chairman that I must learn to talk through the chairman and shorter. That is quite a task, but I thought: I am simply asking a question which the Minister can answer briefly. My question is in line with your words and can simply be answered with yes or no. Do you think it is reasonable, do you think it is fair and do you think it is desirable that the Safe Living Centre, which has to deal with the damage but does not deal with the damage of a lot of people, has actually made 2.4 million profits? Would you care to elaborate on that? A simple "yes" or "no, I don't think that's reasonable" should be, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u69	I'm not going to give such a simple answer, but I'm going to say that I think that if we organize this in a different way, this kind of thing doesn't happen anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u70	I listen to the Minister's story and I hear some very nice words. You want it radically different. That is something that, of course, many people in this Parliament have been calling for a long time. At the same time I also hear you say: the sky is not the limit, I will give some people nothing. But I hear so little concrete. I know I have to do interruptions in half, so this is my last question. In any case, can you say specifically that we are not going to implement the coalition agreement and are going to wait two years for gas extraction to go down? Can you at least make it concrete that we are going to shut down that gas tap for the next two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u71	Can I answer that later? The answer is that I will use everything I have in me to bring down the extraction level, but I will go into what that means later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u72	I am pleased to hear that the Minister is fully aware of the scale and complexity of the problem, especially since this has been going on for five years. The Minister outlines a number of things that need to be done. That's what we're all wondering. He has come up with a legislative agenda in the energy field. Could the Minister come up with a Groninger agenda? When is this meeting protocol due? It was said January. It was supposed to be June 1st. When's the administrative structure, the gas building? The OVV requested a review in 2014. It always helps people who are in uncertainty when there is an agenda. This minister starts again and could then keep his promises. Is he willing to admit such a Groninger agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u73	Yeah, I'm making it. But I'm not making it alone, because I'm not alone in this. If I did it all by myself, then maybe it wasn't that hard, but we have to do this with all the parties. I really think it's a hell of a job. This really makes you wake up at night. I am now talking to the parties about the whole project approach. I'm not on my own about that. If I'm serious about doing this together, I have to do it together and I don't have to run for the music. But at least we agreed that the ultimate aim should be to complete that damage protocol and we are still working on the rest of the approach. There's a charcoal sketch of it, but it's not finished yet. I don't feel entitled to talk about it until I agree with the other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u74	I think that's a little too thin. Surely the Minister is the highest authority, which has the legislative power, which has financial resources, which can also spend everything in consultation with the judicial power and which can or can not spend amounts in the budget. A certain degree of modesty is fine, but almost to the calimero-like, I do not think this minister is appropriate. Those Groningers have been waiting five years, haven't they? It's not like this problem just started. So I think the Minister should come up with something faster than: we're going to orient ourselves on it, I'm going to talk, I'm going to investigate and I'm trying to come up with something on 1 January. Can we at least get this minister's own list of when things come, so that Groningers know that these arbitrators are going to deal with these cases again, so that Groningers knows that money is going to come so that they can sue and so that Groningers know that the verdict is being carried out on that date?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u75	Okay. Very good. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'm not saying I'm gonna orientate myself, and I'm gonna have a conversation. We are now working on the project approach. But this isn't about the Empire that's in charge of Groningen. It's about co-government. I respect my fellow government Groningen and the fellow governments of the villages and the city there. I'm not gonna pretend that I have a joint project approach to say on my own what we do when. If I already start to draw up Haags here... No, really. I think Mrs Van Tongeren actually agrees with me on this. We need to launch this together as a project approach and I am not going to waltz over it and act like a government other than just a co-government. I really don't think that's wise. There are also civil society organisations. I'll talk to him, too. No one has a veto, but I also want to talk to them about that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. I am positive about the Minister's commitment. He says: yes, the NAM has to get away and the government is going to take over, but there is not the sky the limit. But I don't think there's anyone in Groningen who's asking if the sky can be the limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u78	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u79	Shouldn't you start for a reasonable treatment of the Groningen and for removing all that pain and frustration there, however complex that may be, with some very simple principles? For example, the first principle could be that Groningers should not be more detrimental than residents elsewhere in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u80	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u81	... and that Groningers should not experience any disadvantage as a result of gas extraction. And if they do experience such a disadvantage, then that should also be compensated generously. Does the Minister share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u82	It is clear that Groningers should not be worse off than people living elsewhere, and they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u83	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u84	And that means that with those eyes of reasonableness... Mr Moorlag began by saying whether he might not say literally but suggested that, on average, Groningers also have very reasonable expectations. If justice is done, we should be able to agree on that. I heard that a bit in his words. That's what I'm thinking, and I hope so. But of course it remains that there will always be people who want more. At some point, however, there is a limit somewhere, whatever it is. That limit is about democracy and not the NAM. But that's what we're gonna talk about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u85	May I use a second interruption, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u86	A second interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Minister confirms that Groningers should not be worse off. But my question was: does the Minister consider that, if Groninger is disadvantaged, that disadvantage should also be removed or compensated? 'Cause that's what that's all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u88	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u89	The Minister comes from a liberal movement in which protection of property, body and good is a priority. That is why there should be no doubt in this minister that any disadvantage that Groningers suffers from in relation to residents elsewhere in the Netherlands should be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u90	Are we misunderstandin' each other? If, as a result of earthquakes with gas extraction, Groningers suffers a disadvantage, that disadvantage should be compensated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u91	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u92	Is there a catch?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u93	No, not that. A second, which should also be a simple principle, is the principle that the arbitrators use: the presumption of evidence. Does the Minister agree that this should be a guiding principle in the assessment of damage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u94	Let me put it this way. That's what's in store now. Let's not prelude to something that isn't finished. But I am not surprised at Mr Moorlag. Let me put it this way: I am not prepared to negotiate through this Chamber or to debit all kinds of details that I am not yet sure about. And something's not finished until it's finished. But Mr Moorlag does not see me looking surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u95	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u96	Mr. Chairman. There's something else I have to say about Groningen. I was just saying in a nutshell that there are, of course, questions as to whether we are going to handle this reinforcement operation in a good way. The main issue is that what is now under way is already a great deal of work. I'm not gonna brag that I can just do this and you're gonna be disappointed in me, but I'm gonna go after it with full energy. But let me make it one more step harder, and maybe eventually more fun. Look, we got a backup call. That is one task that exists there. If I may say so, I would like to say that there is another task, namely that of sustainability. There's another one, if I may say so: shrink versus growth. Where there is shrinkage, it could absorb growth, but it could also be that where there is shrinkage, there is just shrinkage. Those are all challenges. The fourth is that in some parts of that region there is also an ageing population, and we must bear in mind that an ageing population may need a different built environment than another. Thus, if a household of elderly people returns to exactly the same house, not the same one, but the same one, after which someone has to come three weeks later to mount a stair lift, that is a missed opportunity. Actually, in that case, that house wasn't so suitable at all, but it was just exactly the same. Those are the missed opportunities. It would therefore be nice if we worked on the understanding that each of these tasks is expensive, difficult and painful. Each one comes behind the front door, each one. If we combine that, it will in any case be cheaper than separately and less hassle. But it also offers the same thing, and that would be the one point where we can give Groningen an advantage for the other three challenges, which do exist in the rest of the Netherlands. Because by at least combining the strengthening funds with those other tasks, you might be able to get it moving a little faster. If we have to isolate or pack a house that is already there, I believe it costs €75,000 per house; we have all kinds of examples from North Holland. But if you have to rebuild something, the head is cheaper. This does not mean that this can be financed entirely at the cost of the reinforcement operation, but it is a lot cheaper, sensible and motivating to combine it. That means that somehow we have to deal with funding flows in order to ensure that this happens. That would be my dream. I'm not making it any easier for myself, but that's what we want, isn't it? Do we already have the recipe for that? No, we're looking. No, we haven't quite got the recipe yet. We're on our way, but we have to do that. This means that a lot is being asked of the region too, for example if you want to make a statement about shrinkage and growth. I asked at the table: do you want five vital villages or six less vital? That's a difficult question. I don't blame anyone for not having the answer right away. But it's a question. Or do we want the housing shortages that are now emerging in the city of Groningen to become in some way communicating vessels with some parts of the region? I'm not gonna prescribe that. I'm not gonna tell the Groningen how to live. I'm not gonna do that. But I fucking want the Groningers to do it, that we can put that together and that we can make something better together than if it all goes separately. That'd be great. That means everyone's being asked a lot. That's why I'm not so receptive to sketching the timeline on my own. They have a lot to do in that region. Because of all the stress, the administrative flexibility has to come back again. That's a task. So that's what I think we should do further. And then, of course, there's one more thing. It is not the elephant in the room, but we also need to talk about it: the reduction in gas extraction. Now it says in the coalition agreement: we're going to do this and this and this, 3 billion cub, flat win and so on, and so on. The first thing anyone asks for on this file is you've asked for it a long time ago; I'm squirt eleven, but I'm just sitting here: gosh, can't you do that anymore? This is what we win and how much effort is it going to be to get something off of that? Right? Yeah, so I did. I don't have the answer yet, because if you pick something again but more deeply, increase the conditions and look with more people, more serious and more critical and so on, then you don't have the answer right away. But I'm gonna say it's not that simple. Power plants that we now feed with low-caloric gas are sometimes miles away from other forms of energy. That's like 40 kilometers sometimes. That means we're gonna have to dig a 40-kilometer pipe first. And that's just the big consumers. The eight big ones together are almost 3 billion cubs. Then you think: bingo, that's fast! But then we have to start digging 40 kilometers of pipelines. If you want an extra billion cubs, you'll have another 30 of these guys. And those are the big ones. If you want more, it's almost home to some industrial areas. So that's complex, but there's no alternative but to just do this very seriously and approach everyone. We're stuck as a door, of course. The minimum of extraction is now the maximum. It's a most uncomfortable situation. You'll be responsible... The other is overseas. I have had my first slightly cruel conversation with a colleague in a neighbouring country to make it clear that we are stuck somewhere. We made agreements with each other, but we need to take a serious look at it. We need to look at the tempo of switching. Is it high? Of course, I'm always free to ask if it could go any higher. That is the question I am doing, but it is not easy there either. We just have to go home. People need their gas unit and their résumé... Mrs. Beckerman shakes no, but it's a fuzar surgery. I can imagine that once we will organise a technical session to determine with each other what the task is now. I sent a letter about the nitrogen plant. It must of course be included in the story, as must the foreign power stations. All this leads to two images. One is: what can be done within this cabinet period? Well, it knows its limitations, but I'm gonna try to get as far as I can. There is 3 billion cuub in the coalition agreement. I've found that's a lot of work, but nevertheless, my mission remains to find as much as possible. The period after that we have to get the gas level down because of all those shut-offs abroad and all those power centralisations. That's very important. Q1 will send you a letter on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mrs. Beckerman, I'd like to finish up Groningen before we do any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u98	I have a few more small questions. I'd like to give Mrs. Van Tongeren some comfort. It received 2 tonnes in the budget of EZ at the time. In this whole renegotiation and redesign thing, I'm gonna take it with me. I want to guarantee her that that 2 tons will stand. He's not gone. He's staying there. I'm going as well as that in the spirit of the 2 tons and the intention is to give a place in the new building. I'll tell her that, and I'll make it explicit how. But that's not yet, I'm wearing it. Mrs Mulder asks about Norg: does the damage protocol apply there too? In itself, it is more widely considered whether the Groningen damage protocol, which is not even definitive, should apply in some form to the rest of the Netherlands. That's where Norg gets taken. My proposal is to look at it according to the outcome and to send this Chamber my proposal. Then we can talk about that. But Norg deserves a position equal to that of other locations in the country. The question is whether the alignment with Groningen can be considered. Mrs Mulder also asked about the experiences of residents in Oppenhuizen with the representative zero measurements. I think the satisfaction there is not that great, because it has not yet started. I would like to promise her that, when this gets underway, I will look at how this is polite, report back to this Chamber and then discuss zero measurements. It's a pretty drastic thing, because it's really behind the front door. Someone's gonna come in the bedroom and check it out. This is about Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u99	I hear a story of "I want that gas extraction down, and I look at all the solutions, but it's kind of hard." But you have already said something about which the SodM, the State's supervision of the mines, can now significantly reduce gas extraction. It was ready for you. You said that: I shall postpone that decision. How is that possible? That nitrogen factory at Zuidbroek, you want it, and yet you're postponing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u100	Because we need to look at that in conjunction. Of course, I am most in search of the opportunities to do something in the short term. Unfortunately, this one isn't one of them. I'm not saying I don't. I'm just saying I want to look at that in conjunction. Since this is the first quarter of the year, I think I should still have been given that full consideration, and then we will discuss this matter ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u101	I find that sad, of course. Groningen's been waiting so long. There's been so long training. The judge destroyed the entire extraction plan. We hear you speak wonderful words as Minister, but what do you do? You're putting it off again while we've been waiting so long. I'd like to ask you one more question. Like everyone else, you always talk about "the households that are going to be in the cold." That's something no one wants. But right now we are exporting more gas to Germany than last year to generate electricity. I would really like to know whether you think that is undesirable or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u102	I think it is very desirable for gas exports to be reduced when it comes to Groningen gas. In the past, these kinds of decisions were all logical, but with the image of now, they don't make sense anymore. I therefore agree with Mrs Beckerman that we have no other task than to bring down gas extraction as quickly as possible and thus reduce both the export and domestic consumption of Groningen gas. I do not see any other task, but I do not believe that Mrs Beckerman sees another task. I don't know how we can reasonably disagree on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u103	In The Hague the elevator doors still slowly open and close, I say sometimes. But also in Groningen things are not fast. I asked very clearly what the Minister is going to do to make things smooth, so that people can be clear quickly. I have pointed out that people are in uncertainty. I said some people don't get the guarantee to return to their own streets. We shouldn't want to do that to people. Those people already have physical and mental damage, like I said. Those people are in total destruction. Kids are scared. Let's at least help these people get back into a safe environment. I hear a lot of people say: we don't even get the guarantee to go back to our own street. Can the Minister intercede on that? I really want to know who's gonna coordinate that. This is the last thing I'm saying, Mr. Chairman. I've been here once on the aviation file that it didn't work out. But when another ruler came, all of a sudden it all went to hell, to hell, and it all happened like this. It's about getting a new wind through. It's just a suggestion. Can the Minister say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u104	I would very much like to do that, and I have no choice but to do the utmost. But Mr Graus' question is: is it not reasonable for people to return to their own neighbourhood? That's what a lot of people want. We must also, of course, ensure that when people have a certain wish, that wish is taken seriously. Let me just say one thing. This will be the shortest anecdote I will say in this debate. I spoke to someone who said: tomorrow I will hear what is going to happen to my house and tomorrow I will hear what is going to happen to me. Then I had no choice but to say yes, sometimes you blurt it out and say: gut, I've never heard anyone talk so distantly about himself and his house here. I mean, why is that happening to you? You can get a judgment on your home, but after that, you can influence it yourself, can't you? Apparently, we're in a situation where people don't even think they have an impact on their situation anymore. That's extremely strange. But there's another side to it, too. There are also people who, if they had a patient conversation about it, might come to the conclusion that it is not really wise for them to return to the same house in the same way because they can put a stair lift right away. So we shouldn't just make people feel like they're at the wheel again. We also need to look at these other challenges. In some cases, this means that people do not have to return to the same house entirely. There's got to be room for that, too. That's good sometimes, too. And who's gonna talk about that? These are, of course, people themselves at first, but they are also the local authorities. Municipalities can also say: sorry, but we are not building this street again. That has not yet happened to my knowledge, but I mean, they are governments, they are co-governments who make choices with their voters. I respect that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u105	I share a great deal of the Minister's words, but Mrs Beckerman and I know a little street in Loppersum where people really want to stay together and come back. Those people are told to unsubscribe first, but they don't dare, because they think: if we unsubscribe, we have no rights anymore. That's why they're afraid to unsubscribe. Then no security shall be given to them. Let's face it, everyone has benefited from the Groningen gas. We all do. Me too. Now we can do something for those people, and this isn't too much to ask. I ask the Minister to intercede as shepherd of the sheep. Once in a while, there is also a need to press top-down. Occasionally it is not surprising to put pressure on a certain municipality or local authorities with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, such as: boys, do this differently and keep it in mind. We are the representatives of the people. We often know much better what is going on, is often my impression. Because why are these people going to approach us? Why are they crying at our house? Think about it. I hope the Minister will take that up too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u106	I heard the plea. I do not think that Mr Graus reasonably assumes that I can intervene in all individual cases, but I think that we both think that people want to say something about their own fate and that we should be aware of that. I also dare to say that I do not always feel that this is the way it is being felt. Well, at least that's just what I found out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u107	The last example that Mr Graus mentioned is about one particular housing corporation in Groningen, which we all know is not doing very well. Perhaps the colleague of this minister who is talking about Wonen could also put a little more pressure on that housing corporation. My question concerns the phasing-out plan for gas. The Minister has just rightly indicated that we should use less 3 billion cuubs in this country. That's what the coalition agreement says. He said to look for solutions to do that smartly. His answer in the previous block about the gas-fired central heating boilers is a little thin. I think it is good that the Minister says that he is taking this into account in the energy agreement, that the installation industry is involved in this and that it is not just one specific technique that is chosen, but that it is about getting rid of the gas-fired central heating boiler. I'll follow the Minister in that. But he also says that he wants to link it to the heat plans that all the municipalities have to make in order to get neighborhoods completely off the gas. I really think that's a missed opportunity. I do not think it is real that in the next ten years all these municipalities will be able to manage these heat plans, let alone implement them. I told you last night that if we go off the gas fired central heating boiler, 60% of gas per house switched over will be saved. If we do that in the next 15 years with all the central heating boilers we replace, that's 172 billion cubic tons of gas. My question to the Minister is whether we should not do it and make sure that we make up for those heat plans and already say that we are going to stop the gas fired central heating boiler.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u108	Couldn't this be a nice part of the assignment we're giving at these tables? We are talking here about a rather busy intersection, namely the crossroads of the table of electricity generation and the table of built environment and heating. It would be quite reckless to have the whole of the Netherlands turn right or left in one debate. I am very much in favour of including this in the mandate, in one way or another, following Mr Jetten's suggestion. That is also interesting, because this means that we are not only watching the endgame, but also the intermediate game. That's actually what he's talking about. In the meantime, how can we ensure that the CO reduction is already underway, even though we have not yet reached the heat plan? You want me to do it like this? That seems to me to be a useful suggestion from Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u109	Yes, I am very reassured by the Minister's reply. My second question on this point actually builds on the short interruption debate with Mrs Beckerman on the nitrogen plant. I understand the Minister's letter very well. He's looking at that again. That nitrogen plant, if it had been there a few years ago, might have been a perfect means to quickly reduce the demand for gas from Groningen. But that installation isn't here yet. If we do continue with it, it will take a number of years for this effect to take effect. If we now put the investment needs of that nitrogen plant into the eight large consumers that the Minister just talked about, who consume 3 billion cubic metres with each other. If we put the money instead of the nitrogen plant into getting rid of the gas as quickly as possible from those eight large consumers, would that be an opportunity to reduce the gas demand in the Netherlands in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u110	I did ask a similar question. Let me do this research. Let us try to see, with as few obstacles as possible and as many degrees of freedom as possible, how that gas can go down. I think that Mr Jetten and I have understood each other well and that at the same time we do not want to make anyone eager.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u111	I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the social impact of gas extraction. There has also been a mention of this in connection with the work visit. The Minister himself has been on a working visit. What strikes me is that there are people on different sides of the line. There are people who know how to find their way in the system, with all the ifs and buts, which still come up, have a fortified home, and people who do not succeed as well. I understand the Minister's saying that the municipalities should also get to work, but I get the feeling, because there are so many stories, that there are things in the system that aren't organized properly, so people are on either side of that line. Will the Minister also pay attention to this in the follow-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u112	I think that the feeling of frustration of a lot of people may not even be directly related to the fact that there is damage or that a reinforcement operation is under way. As you leave people longer in uncertainty, give them no clarity, or increase the lead time, people's feeling of being in control of their situation decreases. At some point, people can think: whatever. It's important if there are things going on like damage or reinforcements that we're trying to make the handling time as short as possible and the brightness as much as possible. That was not always possible at the beginning of this operation, and I am not sure that this will always happen now, but that must be the aim. It was on a completely different scale and I don't want to compare it in any way, but a lesson from the North/South line is that you can get people white-hot, if you keep them waiting endlessly and in confusion, even if it's just a limited crack in the wall, which we have had on the North/South line, while you can also have people who normally feel master of their own destiny, because they are properly dealt with by authorities and feel that they have their destiny in their own hands and understand and control the situation. That makes a big difference. That is what we are discussing in the review, because I think that perhaps there is still room for improvement, at least that is how I read the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you for this answer, but I would like to go a step further. I've been visiting in Groningen. The Minister is right to say that people need to feel that they are directing their future and that they are getting clarity quickly. I think these are two very important points, but still one step further. I think there are also people who really need to be taken care of, or who, because of the complexity of the arrangements we have rigged, do not know what doorbell they can press to get support. Last week, or two weeks ago, when we were there, an appeal was made to keep up organizations like Stut-en-Steun, but that there may also be other organizations that can figuratively take people on to accompany that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u114	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u115	My question to the Minister is one step further, namely whether he wants to take this kind of process into account. Fast handling is good, but really a step further, because we have to take people by the hand sometimes, or tell them which doorbell they can call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u116	Yes, actually the safety net for the people for whom the system becomes too powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u117	Because we've made the system complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u118	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you for the Minister's interest in looking at how we deal with sustainability. I have mentioned a specific example, partly as a result of the work visit we had twice in the district of Opwiede-Zuid. There's two types of apartments. One house is so bad that it can't be strengthened anymore, so it's brand new. Furthermore, you have the other blocks of homes that get some kind of usury support. If a brand-new property comes across from your home, it's going to play at once what it does with the value of your home. Of course, there are a number of inhabitants who want to start strengthening now because they feel safer. So just do the book support, but I think the difference between the book support and the brand-new house is so big. Actually, the minister should make it a pilot. This pilot is playing now. There is now a discussion with the inhabitants about strengthening the houses. Will the Minister with this district, with these people, go to the table to see how it can be preserved there? Otherwise, a whole reinforcement operation will take place now, while a whole sustainability operation may have to take place in about seven years' time. Those people have already gotten so much shit over them. I'd really like to spare them that. The inhabitants have also made that call to us. In any case, the government parties have contributed the EUR 50 million to the sustainability statement. Does the Minister also want to work on this in the district of Opwierde-Zuid in Appingedam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u120	Yeah, I already did. I know exactly which houses they are talking about, what situation they are dealing with and which houses are facing each other. That's true. There are two elements in Mrs Mulder's speech. The first is that she is right to note that in many cases no sustainability operation has yet been linked to a reinforcement operation. That stabbed me, too. It would be nice if we could do that more. Otherwise you still have to perform the sustainability surgery in a few years, and then the front gardens go back. So it's important to combine things with each other if you can. That's the commitment, that's the dream I just told you about and that should be our ambition. I agree with Mrs Mulder on this. Her second point is another point: one gets a new home and the other gets nothing. You can only strengthen where it needs to be strengthened, repair damage where damage has to be repaired and build new ones where new construction is needed. You cannot renew houses that do not need to be renewed in order to promote equality. I think the solution to Mrs Mulder's dilemma is rather to combine these challenges in a consistent way. Of course, we cannot renew houses that have nothing to do with because the houses of the neighbors have been renovated. These differences will in one way or another continue to exist forever. I read Mrs Mulder's appeal in such a way that we have to try to combine these challenges with each other, so that we can take another 50 years after that house has been strengthened. That would be my purpose in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u121	I share that last conclusion, but because of the earthquakes, the house of your neighbors may be going against the plain and there will be a whole new house. That does something with the relative value of your own home. That's your real estate; you've been saving up for years, and you've been thriving for that. Let me just say from my point of view: I do not think it is right that there should be just book support. You should at least make a house like that gas-free. If you're looking at whether you can turn a disadvantage into an advantage and if you have to combine those things with each other, then I also think you should be willing to sit down with those residents right now. Then you just have to make sure those houses are at least gas-free. At least, because otherwise they'll have to go back to prison in a few years' time with that sustainability statement. Then we're really putting the horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u122	We agree that we should try not to have that horse behind the cart and to combine that task. But I don't know if we have a solution for the neighbors of the new building. If there are nicer houses in your neighborhood, the value of your real estate increases on average as well. Mrs Mulder has the opposite hypothesis. It could all be, but I don't see how we can do anything with that very soon. I can see that we should get to work on this sustainability issue and make it more gas-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u123	Innovation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u124	Innovation. Mr. Chairman. In innovation, I followed my predecessor Camp from the sidelines. I only did that from the flank. I had a very positive impression of that. Every now and then I've applauded civilizedly, but I have to say that what happened surprises me positively. Perhaps the spokesmen in the Chamber have experienced all this, forced, redirected and so on, but I see that a lot has happened compared to 2010-2011. Then we had a report from the General Court stating that there was no increase in innovative capital due to extra money, the social returns were found unclear, the FES was called inefficient. A lot's happened. A lot of subsidy schemes have disappeared; that is where the knife has been put. The FES is gone. There was an arrangement with a revolver character; so the upside ended up in part with the government; the money came back. Innovation credits came in, pps came in, collaboration with companies and knowledge institutions got a push, the Technics Pact came in. When you look at the bubbles, you can also see it all going up: the international positions on the rankings, the amount of research, the research intensity of our economy. These are all successful examples. But apparently there is always new work to be done, because in the coalition agreement a number of goals are set. There is now extra money for applied research. Mr Veldman asked me: how do we spend it? Mr Bruins asked me to confirm that the money is well spent. Mr Veldman (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Veldman on his excellent report. Do you mind if I quote him like that? There's probably a lot of things that look a bit like it, but they're not good enough. Mr Paternotte looked at me very closely and asked about the timing. There are a number of things in the coalition agreement. The first is to invest in applied research organisations, the TO2 organisations, which meet market needs. The second is public-private cooperation in the top sectors with a focus on economic opportunities for societal challenges and key technologies. Why is that so interesting? If we call it a social challenge, it is ten to one also a global market on which we want to compete. So that coincides with something that the market can do something with. That's nice. By doing so, there is not only the point for us, but also an opportunity for the economy. The third is that the government agreement states that we are strengthening the position of innovative SMEs, because SMEs can also play a role in this. What do we have on the roll before that? There's also a budget. That starts with 75 million and goes up to 150 million. It's got to come out somehow. In the coming period, I will have to go with colleagues, knowledge institutions, companies and the top teams to see how we are going to organise this. There is an AO, I think, in February, for which we need to know more about it. There's some elements in it. I'm passing by briefly, because a few questions have been asked about it. Mr Bruins asked a question about the TO2 institutes. Mr Amhaouch also asked a question about it. Are we going to invest extra in that? Well, I'd say that's reason enough. I would like to say to the two gentlemen that an economical 'yes' is not even appropriate here. However, it must be about market needs, public-private programmes and strengthening the knowledge base. That can be fundamental, that can be thematic. Of course, there are also public-social challenges that do not lend themselves to pps, because they are simply public. It happens. Not everything is pps-able. That is that part of the budget, of the task. Then we have the top sectors. We want to focus more on the economic opportunities of societal challenges and key technologies. Mr Veldman of the VVD asked how we are going to do this and Mr Paternotte asked whether innovation policy should be in line with societal challenges and the commitment to key technologies. The answer to that is yes. Innovation can make an important contribution to solving societal challenges, and PPPs are the way to ensure that it also responds to economic opportunities. In those top sectors, everyone's in. Those are ministries, top teams, scientists, institutes. It's not just companies, it's much wider. How's that going? The first step is, of course, in those knowledge and innovation agendas. They have now been drawn up, and these top sectors have done so. So they are focused on societal challenges and key technology. So they're drifting away from that sectoral image. I have seen Mr Paternotte look seriously at the sectoral approach of the top sectors. Look at that look; that's exactly how it is! And if I can be reassuring in his direction, we're going to focus more on these societal challenges. And it happens to be so that societal challenges are not always equal to sectors. That's where it is. Societal challenges. Is it just these societal challenges? We have also said 'climate, food, high-tech', if I may say so briefly. I haven't heard any pleas to drop cyber or care from our hands. We need to keep working somewhat nuanced, but climate, nutrition and high-tech should have an important part of the focus. It is clear that the weight lies there, but we are not going to abolish the rest suddenly. It would be nice to be able to organize that via pps as well. The base of pps is getting bigger and bigger. This necessarily reduces the surcharge if you keep the budget equal. It is therefore appropriate to give consideration to the Chamber to bring the PPS back to level, to ensure that it marches. Since I talk to everyone but still address the Chamber with more than normal eagerness, I would like to hear if this kind of direction fits. When we talk about the same budget, yesterday I saw a whole parade of SME lovers. I refer these lovers to the Secretary of State, but of course we are working together again when it comes to the innovation piece. Mr Van der Lee, Mr Veldman, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bruins all sang SMEs. I look at this innovation interface, but the rest of the statements on SMEs will be made by the Secretary of State. How do we ensure that these innovation funds also benefit SMEs? Well, the innovation tools are, of course, simply available to SMEs. SMEs receive more support per euro in R&D than large companies. Of course, the Wbso "the basis," the real big money "the real big money" goes to the SMEs to an important extent. I believe that more than half of the Wbso, and then we talk about 700 million, goes to SMEs. Then we have the pps allowance and the MIT scheme. These are all important instruments for a strong role of SMEs in innovation policy. I would also like to mention the innovation credit. I can imagine that we are looking for instruments like this to work along the lines of the instruments we have. I'm making a bit of a call, too. I think it would be appropriate to give SMEs a place here, as the Chamber also asks me to do, but I would very much like to do so with existing instruments. I've been through EZ at a time a little longer ago. Then we swam in the instruments. To be honest, no matter how hard I tried, I was never one of the fans. A certain allergy to instrumentalism still clings to me. I would like to do it in consultation with the Chamber, but I would like to look for it in the existing instruments. I would like to step up my efforts to ensure that we can live up to the ambitions of the coalition agreement. The CDA specifically asked about the possibilities in the MIT for a broad dissemination of knowledge to SMEs by applied knowledge organisations, i.e. through the TO2 organisations. There are many possibilities within the MIT, where the innovation demand of entrepreneurs is central. I say the following in the direction of Mr Amhaouch. It is good to link SMEs more to the TO2 institutions, but my starting point here is I am testing him that the demand of SMEs should be at the heart of the question. The situation that the government is coming to the SMEs to tell him what's good for him to investigate, I don't think is the winning concept. This isn't how we're supposed to do it. I would look forward to these things with enthusiasm, but I would like the SME question to be at the heart of them. Then we have some questions about SBIR in this context. Shouldn't we do more about SBIR? Shouldn't that get a place in the budget? Yes... or no. I'm gonna do a little positioning on this one anyway. SBIR is not a subsidy instrument. It's not a game. SBIR is an instrument. In fact, it's a questioning tool that's suitable for someone who wants something. That "someone" could be Rijkswaterstaat. Rijkswaterstaat has a noise problem and calls for quieter asphalt. That's not an EZ grant jar. That is an intelligent question to save costs or reduce noise or whatever. It's an instrument, a way to ask out. The municipality of Rotterdam or the Port Authority asks the market how blockchain technology can play a role in the heat grid. That's not because there's an EZ grant box, but because they want a solution. They have a problem and they want a solution. That's what it's for. So it's not a subsidy pot in the first place. I can imagine Mr Paternotte saying: I would like to give this innovative instrument a boost. I can imagine a few things, but that is a statement that I would like to have Chamberwide, because it is initially an instrument and not a game. How we can continue to do this, I will take all of them with me in the spring of 2018. There have been several statements that are sometimes directly interlinked and sometimes require an interpretation to see if it is directly interlinked. I'm sure there'll be motions later. I am going to say that I will use these motions to actually hear from the Chamber where the accents should lie. I would like to hear from this democracy how it sees this. Not that I have no idea, but I think we need clarity. Mr. Chairman. The last piece in the block "innovation".... it is at all the last piece... is the Wbso. There are concerns about this, not only with Mr Veldman, but also with Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bruins. Can I put it this way? It's all worry. My history with the Wbso is just a bit longer, because the Wbso is of course a fiscal instrument. Every year I received a visit from my esteemed colleague, Mr Kamp, who came to tell me that the Wbso parameters were under pressure and that there had to be more, more budget for them. I've always listened to him and asked him out in other areas, because you can learn a lot from this man, but I've always sent him to the neighbor, to the finance minister. Budget wishes are not always applicable in a tax plan. Then a visit to the neighbor is also useful. So I know this cramp. The Wbso is, of course, a positively evaluated instrument. It is logical for Mr Kamp to visit me and it is logical for you to pass on the concerns to me. The Wbso is one thing that you learn more and more by applying for this year. We have just received the final score. It doesn't change much anymore. After a solid calculation, I come up with the following, namely that it seems, on the basis of the most current estimates, that it is still necessary to change parameters, but that it is possible and that there is enough budgetary space for it not to lower the first disc and the rate for starters. This means that the parameter above €350,000 will still have to be adjusted, but that the starters and the first disc could remain the same, a bit in line with the different speeches about the SMEs of the various people present here. That's what's in it now. If we want everything to be different, then the big question is where the budget should come from, and I have no answer to that question. But this is what the latest calculations show. I myself thought we had moved a little further in the direction of the wishes of the Chamber. The corners of the mouth may not be fully curled up yet, but I thought we had taken a small step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u125	Have we reached the end of the block of "innovation"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u126	This was the end of my first-term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u127	I think that what the Minister sketches on the basis of the most up-to-date figures when he has studied those figures is usually a very sympathetic approach in the end. Indeed, this gives start-ups, small businesses and family businesses the assurance that they can continue to claim them in the same way. My question is whether this is also the way in which he would like to organise the Wbso in the long term. In my view, Mr Veldman said: can we not now see whether we can ensure, within the burden framework, that in the long term not only those smaller companies, family businesses and start-ups but also the large ones can continue to claim the Wbso in a similar way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, that's a wish I know too. We can think about everything and discuss everything, but I think that my distance from the budgetary debate over the last few months has not been much smaller than Mr Paternotte's distance from the same conversations. He knows there's no low-hanging fruit. The budget is complicated. I would advise Mr Paternotte to at least wait and see how things develop and, above all, to be opportunistic, but I am not a priori optimistic about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u129	The budget is complicated, but it is perhaps an advantage that the Minister is in this place now and is no longer the Secretary of State responsible for that budget, at least for raising that budget, if I may put it that way. What would be best for innovation in the Netherlands from the point of view of innovation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u130	I believe that the Wbso can be a very appropriate instrument, but since I am speaking on behalf of the cabinet, I do not express a different view on this than before. It is always possible to philosophize about more budget. If it's there, it's there. But I'm not optimistic right now. But my judgment on the Wbso is probably not different from Mr Paternotte's judgment. I think we both read the same evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u131	I would like to return to the Minister's contribution on the top sectors and the transformation into three themes: the theme of energy transition and sustainability, the theme of agriculture, water and food and the theme of quantum, high-tech, nano and photonics. I agree with the Minister that we need to focus more on this and that perhaps the focus is partly on energy transition and sustainability. I am glad that the Minister says that this does not mean that we are dropping out of our hands such as the care and all the innovations that are taking place there. But in my opinion, the intention of the more thematic approach is that we are able to cross-over a number of connections, for example linking developments in Brainport Eindhoven cross-over to the very beautiful innovative things that are happening in Health Valley around the Radboud UMC. These cross-links are now not sufficiently laid. Is that also the approach the Minister has chosen with these three themes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u132	I am also pleased to hear this. Some things in care are high-tech and things are also connected. Innovation and technological progress do not always comply with the limits we set out in the coalition agreement, however frustrating that may be. The whole world does not automatically abide by our coalition agreement and there are even things that run right through it. Sometimes the theme is still difficult to classify: what do you actually think it is? I do not think we can calculate that exactly on the percentage, but I think we should say that the focus must be on these challenges, but we do not abolish other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u133	Ergo, we're going to use the more thematic approach mainly for cross-over. So we are going to try to achieve social profit by connecting it back and forth, not so much in the nine top sectors that we now have, but wherever innovation takes place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u134	The sectoral approach should not be leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u135	I thank the Minister for the good news that the first disc of the Wbso does not need to be modified. He has repeatedly said that the second disc needs to be reduced, and that is for medium-sized research-intensive companies, actually already for small-scale research-intensive companies, a serious blow-off. If you have a handful of R&D people, six or seven, you'll be in that second disc pretty soon. Is there still time and space to maximise the use of creative ideas to meet those relatively small research-intensive companies? At the top of the range we have maybe three or four very large companies that can also use the Innovation Box. Shouldn't we see if we can introduce a second and a third disc or put a cap on top of it? Is there still room for creative thinking to help these important medium-sized companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u136	The examples mentioned by Mr Bruins are not immediately creative. Basically, if you want to give someone something, you have to take it from someone else. We can talk about this as parameters or arrangements, but let Mr Bruins now articulate who he wants to take something from, so that we can give someone else something. But that's not creative, that's policy. That's politics, and it's allowed. I love hearing that, but I don't know if it's creative. It's unpleasant sometimes, but it has to be. Mr Bruins has every right to ask these questions, but then he must tell us what he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u137	It's a zero-sumgame. I think that's exactly why we have to be creative, because the least creative way is to just pump money into it. That's not very creative. It would be nice, but there is little low-hanging fruit, says the Minister. I am thinking, for example, of the introduction of a second and a third disc, so that you can accommodate the small research-intensive companies and give the third disc a lower rate. Or I am thinking of a cap that would touch only a very limited number of very large companies, companies that can also use the Innovation Box widely. I think that's two creative ideas. A third disk might even be implemented very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u138	I will not say that Mr Bruins is fleeing, but that he speaks in instruments. The point is, he's taking something away from someone. I hear he wants to take it away from the big companies and therefore, in this case, very innovative ones. These are companies that, in many cases, compete globally, deliver performance that is breathless and that are also under fierce competition. I can't just say that the Wbso would be less well spent on them. I wouldn't dare say that. So if Mr Bruins says: we have to get it out of there, then I would very much like to know from the other Members whether they feel the same way. Not all of this can be done in a single budget cycle, but we can set a long path and of course there is always talk with the Chamber about that. But it starts with the fact that if you want to give someone something in a zero-sumgame, you need to be able to articulate who you're taking something from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u139	I have two questions open, one on innovation and business and one on the labour market. I was waiting for a moment and I thought, "Maybe it'll be in the second part of the minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u140	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u141	So before he sits down again, I would like to repeat a question from last night, emphasising the importance of innovation in the energy transition and asking for extra attention to be paid to entrepreneurs and businesses who experience obstacles in regulation and legislation when they are in the process of innovation. I have already replied in writing to other vagues about this. I'd like another comment on this, if I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u142	I tried to give that answer, but I think I did not mention Mrs Yeşilgöz and that she might not have recognized the answer. Well, that's entirely up to me. In dealing with this climate agreement, we are explicitly going to establish a few horizontal links. One of them is innovation. On the contrary, we must aim to remove obstacles. We will see that there are necessary developments with new technologies, but that legislation is still based on old technologies, that practices are still based on old technologies or that whatever is based on old technologies. We must then signal it and put it in place. Such a climate agreement is, of course, also possible for market players to say: we can do this, but you do not want it at the moment. Then we look amazed around and we see a law that we think: dear, it seemed so beautiful when we hired it, but it is outdated. That can happen, and we need to signal it. That is an explicit part of such a climate agreement. I said at the beginning: the transition is not government, but there are roles in legislation and they are very dominant. We have to live up to that. So thank you very much for this suggestion. It'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u143	I do not need to be mentioned explicitly, not even to listen to the answer. I would like to reassure you that, in the climate agreement, where we are all going to talk to large parties, attention is also paid to the smaller entrepreneurs, who may not naturally be directly at the table. After all, innovation is not just from the big partners. That will undoubtedly be part of that. If I may ask another question in the extension of that? Maybe I missed the answer to that, too. It could be. Or it could be that it's coming back to the Secretary of State. It is a question of focusing on a shift in the labour market, which is very briefly said in turn from the grey sector to the green sector, although it is quite simply formulated by me. There will be a huge shift. I know the S.E.R. is doing an investigation. Perhaps we will hear when the results of this study on the impact of the energy transition on the labour market will come? Is it also possible to pay particular attention to this together with SZW's colleagues? Perhaps I should ask the question elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u144	SZW and OCW. This is also a very dominant challenge for SMEs, where there is not only a great need, but also the necessary ambitions. The Secretary of State will say something about that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u145	Yesterday I asked the Minister about the protection of listed companies against hostile takeovers. He's already sent a letter about that, but it doesn't say anything. The coalition agreement does say something, namely that the measure it is about to introduce should not be combined with existing protection structures already in place by companies, the law which must regulate a legal period of reflection. Now the Financial Daily has looked at this in April, and it appears that some 80% of listed companies have some form of protection. So the question is: will the Minister now make a law, which will only help 20% of these companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u146	I cannot determine for each of these companies how long their protection structures are and what those structures are. I do not know whether it is necessarily just about these companies. No doubt the authors of the coalition agreement had in mind not to add up time clauses, because that is really not the intention. It is intended to work where it does not exist, but it is not necessary where it already exists. But my proposal is to talk about this when there is a proposal. There is now a great deal of thought about it. Let me take this point of interest from Mr Hijink, but let us discuss it at the moment when the proposal is presented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u147	That is a good plan, but there is, of course, a good start to this proposal. That is what the coalition agreement says, and that is that this combination must not be possible. That is a very big problem, because that makes it a very weak interpretation of the proposals made earlier by Minister Kamp. You then have 17 companies, some of which are not covered by Dutch legislation. So you have something like fourteen companies that could still benefit from this proposal that will extend the 180-day reflection period, which already exists, by two months, while they will have to give up their own protection. That's not gonna happen to any company, is it? A law like that isn't worth a damn, is it? Surely that combination should be possible, and we should be able to do so in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u148	I see this as an appeal from Mr Hijink that I will think about, but let us not discuss a legislative proposal that does not exist here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you to the Minister for his reply. We see them as a state of the Union in relation to the climate, about how he's going to deal with it. We conclude that that's a mix of "we're gonna do everything" and "we're gonna focus on everything." Well, it's fine by itself. Let a thousand flowers bloom and then we'll check it out. He doesn't have a perseverance force, he can only convince, and we're gonna take care of him. Hell of a lot of them. I would like to say that perhaps the Minister agrees with us that there is a chance that he is overlooking something and that the post is unexpected. The post is unexpected that four, five, six, seven, eight or nine reports have come between the appointment of the cabinet and this moment, which say that climate change is going much faster than we think. There are also signs from society, parties that say: we really want to go much faster than the government. Also in the state of the Union of the climate that has just been issued not a word about the ecological deficit. The post unexpectedly could haunt the minister. How does he feel about that? Can we help him with that so he doesn't forget it? How can we help him with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u150	If there are all kinds of parties that want harder, let them indicate that in the talks on the climate agreement. I would almost say to Mr Van Raan: send them to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u151	With all my love. And perhaps a small reflection on the post unexpectedly and the accelerated climate change and the reports that take advantage of each other. How's he handling that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u152	The ambition is great. Let's try to make this happen. Anyone who wants to go harder is welcome to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u153	Thanks to the Minister. Before we listen to the Secretary of State, I'm suspending for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u154	I call the Secretary of State. Not all spokesmen are present yet, but if the Secretary of State starts slowly, it will flood rapidly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it'll be all right. Look, people are coming in slowly. Mr. Chairman. I have a whole story in front of me here, but what is always going through my mind is the words of Mr Paternotte, who is not yet present in the Chamber but who may hear my voice. He talked about tourism in Amsterdam and the photos about it. I'll come back to that at the end of my story as just some kind of cliff hanger. Because I thought that was a special contribution. Mr. Chairman. It is special for me to stand here as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate. It has been seven weeks since I, but of course my colleagues, have been appointed. Anyway, I've been immersed in a fascinating world ever since. Upon arrival at the Ministry there was a whole package of introduction files for me, from SMEs and mobile accessibility to competition, from state aid to radio frequencies, from technology pact to mail. They are diverse subjects, but they are all dossiers with a very concrete task that affects people and businesses in their daily lives. I've had all kinds of introductory talks over the past week, but I'm still a long way from finished. And I started a tour of Dutch business, and I think you'll be able to do that for three years. But today I am with you, at Parliament, where we are going to talk about the full breadth of my policy. I promised to walk by the cubes. My colleague has already done so, but I will repeat it. I'll start with a general introduction. Then I come to talk about entrepreneurship. Then there will be funding, staffing and digitalisation. I have touched on the three subjects of the State of small and medium-sized enterprises. Then I'll switch to digitalization more generally. And I close with start-ups, control pressure and finally a few isolated topics. In between, of course, I will answer the questions of the Members of Parliament. When I am asked as Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy what I am going to do in the coming years, I say immediately, automatically: for entrepreneurship and, to be precise, for small and medium-sized enterprises. In a world where many things are getting far away, bigger and more anonymous, small and medium-sized enterprises are close, smaller, something of personal contact and, say, human size. In the meantime, since these seven weeks, one thing has become clear to me: within the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy (EZK), there are many arrangements, support structures and sources of information, in cooperation or not with industry. It is only often unknown to the outside world that these belong to EZK. I refer to the National Service for Entrepreneurship in the Netherlands, and I refer to the Chamber of Commerce. They are co-financed from your state budget and are linked to EZK. The StartupDelta is also co-financed from your budget and is also connected to EZK. You ask yourself: why is that important? The coalition agreement is called confidence in the future. I see it as my job to show, with all these good things from the Ministry, based on your Chamber's policy choices and financial choices, that the government is also there for small and medium-sized enterprises and that we are in the Netherlands for a good and welcoming business environment, as Mr Öztürk has also advocated. One of the ways I want to do that is to make company visits. The first company visit was a gift for me because of the presence of our queen Máxima. We are lucky to have a queen who is so committed to small and medium-sized enterprises, the foundation of our economy. Friday 17 November, during the Entrepreneur's Day I was present at the groundbreaking architecture firm Octatube in Delft. When I say: the Market Hall in Rotterdam or the light shaft here on the side of the Mauritshuis, you all nod: yes. Right, Mr. Chairman? Yeah, that's it. I spoke to two starters in Leiden's life science business later that day. They develop organs on chips, Ncardia and MIMETAS. I ended the day with a visit to the Stronkhorst butcher shop in Amstelveen, a third generation family company. The great versatility of Dutch small and medium-sized enterprises in one day. I was present in Rijssen-Holten, the most SME-friendly municipality in the Netherlands, where I have seen how precisely the cooperation between the three O'S, the government, the education and the business community can in practice lead to close cooperation between VMBO and MBO, in which the business community itself tackles the problem of the shortage of technically skilled staff. That's where the next generation of plumbers, roofers and metalworkers are trained. The other big topic is digitalization. It's an important challenge. Digitisation is turning our society and our economy at a rapid pace. That requires a lot of attention, especially from the government. The coalition agreement is full of ambition, very legitimate questions and intentions. In general, this is a task for the JenV Ministry of cyber security, for the Ministry of BZK for the digital government and for the Ministry of EZK for the digital economy. But I also do not forget the OCW Ministry for digital literacy in education and VWS for digitalization in care. There are opportunities and concerns that people have about digitalisation. Together with my colleagues in the cabinet, I want to come up with a national digitalisation strategy, in which people's concerns, but certainly also the opportunities for the Netherlands, are given a place. After all, we are number one in Europe in terms of digital connectivity and fourth in terms of digital economic power. I want to keep that one, and I want those four up. Today, therefore, I would like to go into the digital side of my portfolio in more detail where this is concerned. Mr President, I come now to entrepreneurship. I want to start with small and medium-sized enterprises in all their diversity: fromzzp'er to established SMEs, from start-up to family business. As has already been said, small and medium-sized enterprises are the foundation of our economy. Most companies are small and medium-sized enterprises. In business, small and medium-sized enterprises provide seven out of ten jobs and more than 60% of what companies earn in the Netherlands. It makes a significant contribution to economic growth. In 2016, SMEs contributed more than 80% to total business growth. The top sectors policy - and my colleague Mr Wiebes has just spoken about this - is perhaps top without small and medium-sized enterprises, but lacks the impact on the workplace for many people. Small and medium-sized enterprises are close, and therefore important for social connections in a village. Who doesn't know the ad in the church magazine or the signs around the football field? Where did they come from? Sponsored by small and medium-sized enterprises. During the Entrepreneur's Day, on 17 November, I also received the annual report from the State of SMEs, issued by the Entrepreneurship and Finance Committee, an institute of this kind financed from your budget in support of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the front page Bert and Herma Arrangement. The growth and dynamism of small and medium-sized enterprises has been shown through a shoemaker who has made the digitisation battle. It also contains a profit warning: labour productivity in many small and medium-sized enterprises, especially in the smaller ones up to 50 employees, is lagging behind. How is this possible? There are three reasons for this. The funding for a possible expansion is not going to work, suitable staff cannot be found or the digitisation stroke is not being made. This can and must be done better. The foundation of the Dutch economy can and must be widened, so that more people participate and benefit. Now I come to the funding, Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the crisis has made it difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain funding. This has had an impact on growth, innovation and employment. But in the meantime, the path to economic growth has started again. So the hands on the funding team, you'd say. How? I'll get to that in a minute, but first this. 90% of the funding is still provided by small and medium-sized enterprises. However, you often hear that smaller companies have difficulty in attracting small loans through the larger banks. This is reflected in the decline in outstanding loans from large banks and in the volume of outstanding loans. That has fallen in recent years. I research with the Financing Monitor, which your Chamber receives, important indicators to measure the performance of the finance market for small and medium-sized enterprises. These indicators relate to the process of orientation, application and acquisition of funding. Since 2013, we have seen an increasing number of companies receiving a funding application. At the same time, a demand for funding is more often rejected for micro-enterprises and small enterprises. If that's because of a bad business case, it's a good thing. But where that is because, for example, it is not part of the business of the relevant financier or bank, we have a problem. Where can an entrepreneur go? That is why it is so important that there are multiple options. Our policy on funding therefore focuses on a number of pillars. I think it is important that entrepreneurs are less dependent on bank finance. We can do this, among other things, by supporting new forms of funding, such as crowdfunding, but also credit unions and stimulating financial innovations. That is also stated in the coalition agreement. As I said in my introduction, there are several ways of getting funding as an entrepreneur. The question is: how does an entrepreneur get to the right window? Does he know where he's supposed to be? On the website of the Chamber of Commerce but also on the website of Financinglink Fink, also powered by your budget and therefore by the Ministry, entrepreneurs can gain insight into their possibilities. With a form they can start an intake with different financiers and platforms that are connected to it again. In recent years, new financing organisations have been helped to launch and develop through a financial arrangement, the Funding Guarantee, also from the Ministry of EZK. Of course, you know Qredits and the guarantee scheme for SME loans. With my own eyes, I have seen how important it is for an organization to be able to go to Qredits for credits, including the smaller ones. There is also a profit in improving entrepreneurial skills. The start-up and success-making of a company is something other than growing. A good example is the programme "nlgrowt"........................................................................................................................................................................................... A few hundred coaches are unimportant for a coaching journey with other entrepreneurs. Of course, I always do injustice by not mentioning them all, but then it will be twelve o'clock. I would like to mention, for example: Harold Goddijn by TomTom, Jitse Groen van Thuisvoord and Harald Swinkels by the Dutch Energy Society. This can also be requested from Qredits. By the way, Qredits has also been financed from your budget. Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen, including Mr Graus, asked me what I am doing to make funding more accessible to small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is one of the conditions for growth. I think I've gone into that in detail. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the third reason why sometimes the growth that should be achieved is not achieved. That's, uh, well-trained staff. The Netherlands is the most competitive economy in the European Union. When it comes to competitiveness, innovation and scientific research, we are among the top internationally. We owe this excellent position to our well-educated workforce. That is also what Mr Moorlag shares with me. He spoke about this explicitly when he talked about how to achieve growth and a good climate for establishment. In doing so, he called for attention to be paid to human capital. And so it is. Mr. Chairman. Technology is the biggest engine of our economic prosperity. The cross-overs of technology in other sectors such as healthcare, the food industry, the energy sector and sport are only growing and have a major impact on our working environment. The demand for knowledge and skills for the application of technology is increasing in the coming years, including in the non-technical professions. The whole workforce must be able to move along with the changes. Sufficiently skilled technicians at MBO and HBO levels are urgently needed. Think of the sustainability challenge, which my colleague is working on. Corporations are going to tackle their housing stock in the coming years. Plumbers, electricians, installers, masons and plasterers are very much needed for this. There's a screaming shortage of that already. The Technics Pact focuses on the training of sufficiently smart and skilled technicians. The figures show that the approach of the Technics Pact works with the emphasis on the regions. More than 50% of the HAVO and VWO students obtain the diploma in an N-profile, a nature profile. 36% of the total influx into universities consists of students who are going to study beta engineering. Around 4,500 companies, for the most part in small and medium-sized enterprises, invest structurally in public-private partnerships in VMBO, MBO and HBO. But we're far from there. There is urgency to continue the Technics Pact. Fortunately, that is also what we choose in the coalition agreement. Economic growth and the use of technology only increase the demand for adequate and well-trained technical talent. I would therefore like to build on the successful approach of the Technics Pact. We want to emphasise the joint efforts of employers, workers, education, youth organisations, the Empire and the region to tackle labour shortages. That is also what the CDA Group asked for in its contribution. Mr Amhaouch indicated that you should look at the examples in the region in particular. They're already here. The Leiden instrument makers School is a good example of how you do that. The same applies to REMO in Rijssen, the regional electro- and metal training. I've talked about that before. If you are still looking for a fill-in for a company visit to see what that looks like in practice, I certainly recommend it. In the East of the Netherlands, generic knowledge is shared between business and the MBO about the latest techniques, so that people in the installation industry are prepared to apply these new techniques. This kind of good initiative and the way in which it is organized apply to me as an example for the rest of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I have just spoken about the challenges that exist in terms of sustainability and what Mr Wiebes is doing. I think it is also good to link the knowledge within VMBO and MBO, the new knowledge that exists from all kinds of innovation and the need to put it into practice, and to see if we can start with it in Groningen, because that is where the need is very great. What else can we do? Provide retraining opportunities for people in sectors where employment disappears. The funding for this is stalled, while there is sufficient money in the R&D funds. Wouldn't it be nice if it could be used for that? An important topic is lifelong development through public-private cooperation in vocational education. With OCW we're going to see how we can make this structural. I ran into colleague Van Engelshoven and I asked her: are you doing this, or is Slob doing this? I need them both, because they're both about the different parts of education that are important for this. That's only better, because together we can be stronger at this. Can people who have done technical hard work for years not be used to train young people in the same sector without having to go to the pabo for another four years? What can you change about the education system, which makes it possible to do so more quickly? Isn't it strange, I sometimes wonder, that we have a numerus fixus for technical training, which is precisely what a screaming need is? It hasn't just been resolved, I know, but it's the questions I'd like to discuss with my colleagues at OCW. The first impact of the new Technic Pact is expected in the first quarter of 2018. Mr. Chairman. Then there's digitization. In addition to funding and adequately trained staff, digitalisation among small and medium-sized enterprises is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u156	On the previous point, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u157	Thank you for the warm words of the Secretary of State. It shows the sense of urgency in terms of the growing labour market deficit, while at the same time there are still so many people on the sidelines. Much effort is being made, but ultimately the result counts. Is the government prepared to step up efforts and make more resources available to train and retrain staff if the number of structural vacancies in technology continues to increase, but also in construction? This problem needs to be solved. That's what I belong to the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State have that willingness?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u158	I must, of course, move within the limits of the coalition agreement and of the funding that exists, but what there is room for: yes, of course I do. It's one of the biggest issues we have. We can want to make what we want sustainable with each other, we can want to move the technology to an even higher plan to become more competitive, but if we don't have the staff for it, we can't achieve anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u159	It sounds as if the coalition agreement is the goal, but the coalition agreement is a means of solving urgent social problems. If this problem becomes more urgent, is it not reasonable for more effort to be made and for more resources to be made available to resolve this urgent issue? Isn't that what it's supposed to be like?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u160	That's right. That is the way it should be; Mr Moorlag is right. I believe that funds have been made available in the OCW budget for this purpose. But let us first look at what we are doing in the development of the Technics Pact and what resources are available for it. If more are needed at some point, of course there will always be a conversation with the Chamber. We're gonna have to get it from somewhere. This has just been discussed with Mr Wiebes in an interrupting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u161	It is very good to hear that the Secretary of State says that SMEs are the foundation of the economy. I think this is very important. She also clearly mentioned all the ingredients. We have the strong regions that are looking for professionals, we have the Technics Pact and we still have some problems to solve with the stops at TUs. I am not asking for extra money, I am asking for coordination. How are we going to boost this with the various departments the Secretary of State mentioned? We have the long-term call and we have the short-term call. We need thousands of people. In his introduction, the Minister mentioned the cost of wind at sea. They went from 12.5 cents to 4 cents in five years. That's a 70% reduction. That's a little Moore's law. We have the same task in terms of staff shortages. I would like to ask the Secretary of State how we are going to organise all those building blocks she mentions with all these different departments so that we can really force a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u162	It begins with the urgency of this problem. It's big; we're all aware of that. You will also find this in the coalition agreement. It then comes to the ministries concerned and the directors involved. Who are they? The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the two ministers of OCW and my person, and of course we have the hot breath in our necks of Mr Wiebes, for example, so that is the urgency. Secondly, we have the entrepreneurs on our backs, because they are called for assignments, but they do not have the staff to carry them out as well. Then that need is felt in education, because you want to train young people so that they can also get a job when they are finished. All this together indicates the urgency. Then we will also sit around the table to look at the good examples that Mr Amhaouch mentioned and of which I have also listed some. We are looking at how that is going, but that is not something we should roll out of The Hague over the Netherlands. The strength lies in the regional approach. The urgency must be clear. Then you need to see what you need. The resources must be there and then work together, and next year I will show you what that will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u163	I think it is very good that this urgency is being created by EZ, because unemployment is already very low and Social Affairs might fill in that role differently. That's what we're gonna talk about next week. I think EZ is a very pulling force. I would also like to point out that it is not just a public task, but that the organisations of workers and employers, the social partners, are very important in this. I would like to call on both the Secretary of State and the Minister to work on this, including in the Cabinet, to look for an integrated approach, with Social Affairs and OCW, so that we can really come up with a plan in the spring where everyone believes there will be a breakthrough, otherwise I think the crisis can only get bigger by the end of next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u164	Mr Wiebes began by mentioning the points on which we agree, and one of them is that we are quite positive in life. I can only confirm that, but that does not mean that I do not see the problem and that I do not see the economic side of it. The economic growth we need can only be achieved by focusing on innovation and sustainability. That's what you need those well-educated technical staff for. I had arrived at the 'digitalisation within small and medium-sized enterprises' block. The fact that we are far from there should be made clear from the following. Two thirds of small and medium-sized enterprises have no website. This number scared me. Of the companies that do use it, only one third use it as a sales tool. My idea is that we're gonna push this right now. Transfer of knowledge about digital technologies to small and medium-sized enterprises is the main bottleneck, especially for small businesses. Small and medium-sized enterprises are diverse and this makes the task complex, as Mr Amhaouch stressed in his contribution. With digitisation, small and medium-sized enterprises can increase labour productivity. I would therefore like to start with the programme Accelerating digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises in early 2018. The first step is to start with three regional practical tests. The focus of these tests will be on automating, exploiting customer data and technologies for online sales and marketing. They are systematically monitored to see if they work or not, and if they work, how you can scale them up to other companies. Mr Amhaouch also informed us whether we could use part of the innovation budget for this. In the spring, in consultation with other departments, together with the Minister, of course, I will draw up a spending plan for the resources in the envelope applied research and innovation, and I will inform you about this. But digitisation is much more than just this practical side of the growth we need in small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what I'm getting at. Digitisation is rapidly changing the economy and society. On the one hand, it is our main source of innovation and economic growth. At least 20% of the growth we have is due to ICT. Digitalisation offers plenty of opportunities for addressing societal challenges. Think, for example, of the possibility of reducing road accidents by self-driving cars and making the care better and more accessible. Good digital services enable public authorities to speed up and improve the provision of services to citizens and businesses. Of course, climate policy can also have many benefits from new digital technologies. Mr Van der Lee has already spoken about this. On the other hand, digitisation also raises a large number of new issues, such as the protection of our privacy. Under what conditions do you give someone access to your computer or not, and later to many other devices, to place cookies or, for example, to read the information on your smart thermostat? I believe that the user's consent should be the starting point. There are also questions about the power of an Internet platform, which also raises the question of when to abuse a digital dominant position. The Authority Consumer & Markt, the ACM, is asked to set up a dedicated team in the field of digital competition. By building knowledge of digital innovations and markets, the ACM can act more effectively and effectively against abuse of market power by dominant market economy players. Think for example of booking.com. This is also what Mr Paternotte informed about in relation to competition in tech monopolies. The ACM has built up knowledge in the field of digitisation in recent years. The ACM has recently carried out an investigation into the video platform market. It looked at competition in this market. As mentioned above, the knowledge, base and impact of the ACM should be strengthened. I will discuss this with the ACM and inform your Chamber. There are more questions, such as those about solidarity, behavioral influence and digital security. At this last point we come up with a digital trust center, where entrepreneurs can ask questions about this security. Of course, it starts with its own security of hardware and software and with the awareness of entrepreneurs, but also of citizens, of the Internet or things. We strengthen important framework conditions such as privacy and digital skills in education. We invest a large amount of money, 95 million, in cybersecurity. There are also many people who are concerned, for example about robotisation and its impact on employment. I understand that. At the same time, we must realise that we have factories here because we in the Netherlands are so good at robotisation. For example, VDL Nedcar: 1,500 people in the old factory, 5,000 in the new one. All those countries that were ahead of the application of new technology are also at the forefront of prosperity. But we're gonna need something for this. It's not gonna happen on its own. We need to invest in people and education and retraining. And not to mention, we need a top digital infrastructure. I know, therefore, that I am supported by the Chamber at the speed at which the 5G is being rolled out. The cabinet wants to make the most of the opportunities offered by digitalisation and to recognise and, where possible and necessary, mitigate possible negative consequences. Mr. Chairman. We are at the beginning of important developments. We must recognise that we are far from having all the answers to the digital issues. It is all the more important that we continue to appoint them and discuss them with each other, including at European and international level, because we are, of course, only a small country in a large world. As has already been said, I would like to do so together with my colleagues in the cabinet, who are faced with the same opportunities and challenges in their policy areas, and come up with a national digitisation strategy. This should include people's concerns, but also the opportunities for the Netherlands. This is what we are going to do with entrepreneurs, knowledge institutions and other civil society organisations. I would like to start by organising a round table meeting at the beginning of next year to hear what opportunities and challenges are seen by all these partners. As far as I am concerned, this is a first step towards a digital summit later that year, as raised by the groups of the VVD, D66 and GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned a number of important challenges and opportunities for digitalisation. Many groups have spoken about it, so the attention is certainly there; fortunately. I would now like to focus more specifically on the good steps we have already taken in the area of the digital economy. I'm about to join the Smart Industry Action Programme. This too has been powered by Economic Affairs and, of course, by industry organisations in the technical industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u165	Since I have the feeling that the Secretary of State is now going downhill, I would like to make a few comments on the main points. I am very pleased to hear that the Secretary of State is going to organise a round table on the way to a digital summit and also want to work on a national digital strategy, but I do wonder how exactly we are going to shape coordination at Cabinet level. The Minister rightly spoke of two major transitions: sustainability and digitalisation. Is there not a need for a digital underboard, because all rulers have to do with the impact of digitalisation? If that is not the case, how does the Secretary of State ensure that she draws coordination towards her in the cabinet on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u166	I've been walking around for about seven weeks now, and I've seen in those last seven weeks that you don't necessarily need a sub-committee or ministerial commission to coordinate with your colleagues; certainly not. I have just outlined the urgency and it also lives with colleagues, so I think it is good that we sit together and discuss this with each other. You know what I think? I don't think it's necessary to pour it into a system like that. I think that all my colleagues, modern as we are, see the need for this and that we are going to deal with each other. Let us be honest: this, which is how we deal with the digitalisation of our entire lives, is not about the biggest issue we have with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u167	That is in itself very good to hear, but if it is a responsibility of everyone, it is also not possible to address someone specifically. I think it is precisely at this point, when it comes to grasping all the opportunities and securing public values, that it is important that the Chamber has a point of contact. As far as I'm concerned, I would prefer that to be a chairman of a sub-committee. It may just be one of the rulers, but now we just don't know who we're going to go to. I think that's a problem. I really hope you want to think about that with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u168	I suggest we let the Chamber know. I've been talking about a national digital strategy that we're gonna come up with. We will, of course, inform the Chamber about this. Then we will also make clear who is responsible for which part. It is a subject that appeals particularly to me: questions about privacy, questions about solidarity, questions about behavioral influence. But I don't want to raise my finger in turn. Maybe it belongs to one of the other colleagues or someone feels a little more called than I do. But I will make sure that you know who to address, because that is, after all, your controlling task. Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the digital economy and wanted to talk about the action programme Smart Industry, also powered by EZK again, which is this budget, and the industry organisations of the technical industry, as I told you. We have now opened a number of field labs in the Netherlands. On my magazine it says that there are 31, but there are still 3 open, so we now have 34 field labs in the Netherlands, where small and medium-sized enterprises can experiment with new technology. So last week three of them were also opened. I'll call it the Trial Garden Precision Agriculture. According to this, that is pretty much the only one with a Dutch name. We have 3D Medical, doing 3D printing in the medical field. And we have the Dutch Optics Centre in Delft, where new censor technology optimizes production processes. Mr. Chairman. It's worth a look. I brought an A3 here that they're all on. And when you read it, you almost feel Tom Cruise, Jack Harper in the movie Oblivion. Mr Paternotte is looking at me now. Isn't he familiar with that movie? Go see him, really great! He's already old, but it's really...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u169	It's from the Teletubbies!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u170	Oh, Mr. Graus, I can't repeat that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u171	Sculptures with cucumbers work better anyway!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u172	Maybe that's what I was trying to prevent, Mr. Chairman. Take a look at it. Take a look at the site of the field labs. It's worth a look. It gives colour and content to the fact that the Netherlands is as highly regarded as a digital economy. There is also one where, for example, you will be tested how to handle a military base in the middle of nowhere, with food, drinking, water and you name it all. I can really recommend it. Why is this so important? They are technologies that appeal to imagination and taste more. I also have one more: the Smart Bending Factory, in which we are working on much more efficient production processes in the metalworking industry. It is so important, because this is where new technologies are being developed that can also be used by small and medium-sized enterprises to sustain the growth that is needed. I'm talking to the Smart Industries team about a follow-up agenda for the period 2018-2021. My priorities here are to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are fully involved. After all, that's what this is all about. I would also like to mention the priorities that the development of technology goes hand in hand with the development of skills among the Dutch workforce and ensure that the Netherlands is the country where industry can share safe, fast and reliable data. This agenda will be presented on 5 February. Furthermore, Team ICT is also encouraging entrepreneurs to work more closely with scientists on knowledge development and the application of new digital technology on behalf of EZK. That's public-private partnership. An example is the use of big data, analyzing it, 5G and blockchain. The Blockchain Coalition has also begun. Twenty companies and institutions from all sectors are now involved. Mr Van der Lee specifically asked how Mr Wiebes and I can exploit the sustainable potential of digitalisation. I was just talking about that. It is almost self-evident, but digitalisation can indeed help address societal challenges such as the energy transition. We have the ICT Knowledge and Innovation Agenda. It encourages entrepreneurs and researchers to cooperate in the development of high-quality knowledge and the application of digital technology. For example: how do you use big data and artificial intelligence? How can this also contribute to a more sustainable energy supply? I would also like to mention a better understanding of our own health or sustainable agriculture. Finally, the start-ups, the scale-ups and the control pressure. Okay, let's start with the rule book. Several MPs have asked for this. Too many unnecessary rules is an issue that entrepreneurs hear about very often. In particular, they are talking about removing obstacles that make entrepreneurship unnecessarily difficult. The government agreement clearly argues that regulatory pressure should be limited and that legislation and regulation should be modernised so that entrepreneurs can better respond to societal issues and technological change and opportunities for innovation with their services and products. I would like to translate this into a better regulation programme. I would like to offer that to your Chamber in the second quarter of 2018. I believe that the following principles are important in this respect. Public intervention must be proportionate, so the means must be proportionate to the objective. This is what the SME test we are about to introduce. This means that SME entrepreneurs are involved in legislation and regulation at a much earlier stage through SME panels. Mr Veldman asked: when is this going to happen? So that's in the first half of next year. The good thing about this is that we are actually trying to get entrepreneurs into those panels. In addition, of course, we also have the Advisory College on Control Pressure, the new control pressure watchdog. I trust they will continue to provide me and other departments with good advice. The Advisory Board on Control Pressure is of course just new, but it is a continuation of rather good work, but a little more specified. A government should also be maneuverable when it comes to rules. Experimentation space must be provided so that we can anticipate new developments and make innovation possible through stimulating regulation, pilot projects and experimental space. The groups of the VVD and the CDA asked me in this context what I would like to do, for example, for rules-free zones. In the coming months, the cabinet will explore to what extent more legal experimental space is needed in general terms. The Minister for Legal Protection assesses the frameworks in cooperation with EZK and other departments. Where entrepreneurs invest in innovation and social developments, the cabinet wants to use them. I come back to this in a letter on better regulation, as I have just said. Finally, I attach great importance to good service by thinking with entrepreneurs. For example, the Entrepreneur's Square, the control aids and a digital tool for generating a privacy statement. During the company visits I make, I always ask the question to an entrepreneur: what rule do you stand in the way of entrepreneurship? I know that Members of Parliament will certainly receive free advice on this during all the company visits they make. Do not hesitate to report these opinions to me, because we can then look together to see if we can deal with it. I'd like to join in preventing regulatory pressure with important moments in a company's life. "Life events," that's what they're called. Good service also means organising supervision in such a way that it allows entrepreneurs to undertake. We all know the examples of an entrepreneur who wants something with a waste, but who is stuck in all kinds of regulations, while in the circular economy we do not know any waste at all. We know raw materials. I think it's important that you think about it and see where you can find space. Finally, Mr President. We can't do without rules. The words "finally" apply to this section, because after this we get the start-ups, the scale-ups and the answers to a few other questions, Mr President. I saw Mrs Beckerman look at Mr Hijink relievedly. But you're not here yet. We can't do without rules. Earlier tonight, I talked about crowdfunding. Just now, new legislation is being considered to introduce a number of quality requirements and protection options. The government agreement also contains a large number of possible new rules for the bottom of the wage building of the labour market. But the question is always: are they proportional, are they manoeuvrable and are you as a government service to the entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u173	It is good to hear that the Secretary of State translates the ambitions, as expressed in the coalition agreement, to really get back to work on tackling the regulatory burden into a programme that she will come along with next year and that she will do so together with entrepreneurs. She'll take the legal experimental space into that. It will also include the rule-free zones. That is all very well, but I have a supplementary question. Is the Secretary of State also going to quantify that programme for himself? The previous cabinet had set itself the goal of reducing regulatory pressure to 2.5 billion. Except for one hair, it worked. It would be nice if the programme that the Secretary of State will present to the Chamber in the spring had been quantified. Will the Secretary of State do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u174	I think that is a very good question and a very fair question, because that is how I am. What are you gonna do now? Where is the dot on the horizon and what does it look like? At the same time, I haven't figured out if you could put a number on this. I would ask Mr Veldman to give me some space to think again about whether that is wisdom and whether we should deal with it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u175	Of course, I would like to give the Secretary of State room for thought, but I would like to give her the ambition to quantify in one way or another how we deal with this regulatory burden. Because I agree with her that we need rules. And yes, there are rules, because sometimes that is just useful and necessary. But the overall objective that we have agreed with each other to reduce this regulatory burden and to cut it where possible and where necessary, must be quantified in a certain way, otherwise it is impossible to measure whether we have achieved our goal in the end. I challenge the Secretary of State to put some quantification into the programme she presents in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u176	I share the feeling that Mr Veldman is conveying to me here. Just talking about business isn't gonna get you there. Something really needs to change for the entrepreneur. I just haven't figured out whether it's wisdom to quantify. It's been happening that way for a long time. I think I even remember, but I am mistaken that when Minister Verhagen was Minister, there was already a quantifiable figure hanging on the amount of rules that had to be reduced. I just find it a little complicated, because it's been going on for a couple of years. Are you not actually coming to a point where you have to ask yourself: if we are really looking for another figure to hang on to the rules, are you not getting caught up with the regulation in the context of the general interest? I mentioned the crowdfunding and the regulations for the bottom of the payroll building. But I absolutely believe that I must offer you something that will enable you to say in three and a half years' time that it has worked or not. One of my last topics concerns start-ups and scale-ups. An entrepreneur has a fantastic, innovative idea, based on new technology or a new application of existing technology, which can solve societal issues. Quickly, flexibly enterprisingly and continuously watching whether his product does what it has to do and whether the customers are happy about it. Is it gonna work and it's gonna go up the road? Is it getting better? These start-ups and scale-ups, these innovative small and medium-sized enterprises, challenge established companies. They must continue to innovate and realise that there is someone challenging their monopoly. Established SMEs deliver to innovative SMEs. It goes without saying that the cabinet is aiming for an economic climate, an ecosystem, which can be compared to the top of the world. The cabinet is going to set up the Invest-NL investment institution to improve the financing of Dutch companies. Funding start-ups and scale-ups is one of them. Mr Wiebes will discuss this with the Chamber. In order to improve access to the international market for the Dutch start-ups and to bring the international labour market here, travel is organised together with StartupDelta. Last year, for example, we went on a mission to the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas and to the Hanover Messe. One of the problems with start-ups and scale-ups is also: sufficient qualified staff. Everything I have said about this in the Technics Pact applies here too. But there is also something else: how do you make the Netherlands the desired location climate that you need for this? And this under the motto: that's where you want to work and that's where you need to be. Here I would like to mention the City Deal Warm Welcome Talent, an agreement between four ministries and four municipalities that have jointly identified obstacles that cities face in fulfilling their role as breeding ground for foreign entrepreneurial talent. We have made recommendations to remove these barriers, such as flexible and faster access rules, better information and guidance and active recruitment abroad. But also the special envoy Constantijn van Oranje has come up with recommendations; he has also been to the Chamber. Active policy to attract international talent to the Netherlands: we do this to alleviate shortages among specialist staff as programmers. There should also be a better arrangement to pay wages in shares and options. The implementation of these recommendations is central to the forthcoming cabinet period. Although we are one of the few countries that know a start-up visa, we have not yet considered how to bring this smart technical man or woman's partner here. Can we do that? Is there anything else we can do for the recommendation to lower the salary criterion for these knowledge migrants? Finally, the funding opportunities for start-ups are also important. I was allowed to hand over more than 10 million to Ncardia myself and to MIMETAS an amount of 2 million to help them take the next step towards personalized medicines, fundamental to health care. My old love in health care "how do you make medicine cheaper?" played a lot on that. We also have a Seed Capital scheme and a Seed Business Angels scheme. It's really great! The arrangements do their job well and make it possible for venture investors to form an investment fund with which they can then reinvest in start-ups. Finally, Mr Bruins. He's already at the Interrupt Microphone. He started off with the Dutch Committee for Entrepreneurship and Financing's signal about the increasing shortage of labour, the slowness of productivity and the lack of risk finance. He also mentioned the research of the Jheronimus Academy of Data Science into scale-ups. I see from Mr Bruins that he was standing at the interrupting microphone before that, Mr President. I knew it! We're in contact with the scientist at JADS. This research has recently started and we are very interested in the results. On this basis, we can see how, for example, we can involve them in the programme Netherlands is growing. There are already many studies on opportunities and barriers to growth, and that is why I am not in favour of another new study. But we will certainly involve everything we have and all the wisdom that exists about it in the future. Mr President, I would like to touch on a number of individual questions. But I see Mr. Veldman coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u177	Mr Veldman on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u178	A point under the heading "funding." The interest rate derivatives passed just a short while ago in an interruption. Last week it was announced that the banks are rather lagging behind in the progress of the compensation for interest rate derivatives. One of the reasons that is then mentioned is that there are some problems with these banks' ICTs. Now I cannot imagine that the average SME can give up this as a reason if, for example, he has to pay his VAT to the Tax Office or pay his tax all year round. We don't accept that as a government. I do not think that we should accept this from banks either, and I would like to call on the Secretary of State or, in fact, both heads of government, together with their colleagues in Finance, to make a big deal of this and to make sure that they are simply working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u179	That makes sense to me, but at the same time this is also a subject that I do not know all about. My former colleague Pieter Omtzigt always did that very well and I always thought to myself: it must be right. I also see the passion he feels for this subject with Mr Veldman. I hope he will allow me to come back to this in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u180	Of course I accept that. The passion with which the Secretary of State speaks about SMEs indicates to me that she is also the appropriate person to work with the Minister and with the Directors of Finance to appeal to banks about this behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u181	For everything that affects small and medium-sized enterprises, you are certainly at the right place with me, but I know that there is still a whole world behind this. So before I say anything that turns out to be wrong, I'm gonna keep my mouth shut. Mr Veldman was satisfied with that, so I would like to come back to this in the second term. There are a number of loose vagues that have been put forward by spokesmen and have not yet been answered. Then I come to Amsterdam, or perhaps not, if we have listened carefully to Mr Paternotte. By the way, he almost looked like a Volendammer when he claimed that the average Amsterdammer sees a beer bike more often than his partner. Gee, I thought those Amsterdammers could exaggerate too! But it's also a problem. I recognize it. I do not want to say to all those tourists immediately: come all the way to Volendam, because there it is also quite busy, so slowly. Although, of course, you understand, it is the most beautiful village in the world. I did recognize a lot when Mr Paternotte mentioned the photos on the NBTC site. That's where all the photos of Amsterdam are on it. I immediately think of the Voorhaven in Edam, or the Middendam in Monnickendam: perhaps just as beautiful, if not more beautiful. That would, of course, fit in perfectly with that. The problem is a real problem. I know that, and I owe him an answer. He asked if I can guarantee that no euro will be spent to attract tourists to Amsterdam. Maybe this is a bit too short a summary of his question, but I think it came down to that. Instead, they should try to refer them to other places in the Netherlands. Just one explanation: NBTC Holland Marketing is the organisation responsible for advertising the Netherlands abroad. And they do it well. In this capacity, they also receive more than 8.5 million grants from the Ministry of EZK, which is used to promote the Netherlands as an attractive destination for holidays, business meetings and conferences. The grant decision explicitly states that they should focus on general Holland promotion. They do not cooperate on a bilateral basis with Amsterdam on the promotion of the city. Amsterdam or individual companies from Amsterdam can participate in projects. It is clear that nobody will be surprised that the city of Amsterdam has a great attraction for tourists. We need to see that attraction to bend and seduce visitors to come to other places in our country. Because not only Volendam and Edam and Monnickendam are beautiful; there are of course many more special places in the Netherlands. The organization itself recognizes the usefulness and necessity of this distribution. For this reason, NBTC has developed the HollandCity strategy, which focuses on spreading tourism in time and space. They have theme years. From Mondrian to Dutch Design is an example of this. For the future, I will focus on increasing the value and spreading of visitors, and less on more visitors in the well-known places. If I look through the room like this and stand still where you all come from, we can talk about that for the rest of the evening, but I am not going to do that, Mr President. Mr Amhaouch asked for a public digital register, in which public authorities should be able to report all planned decisions on tendering in advance. Mr President, I understand where this question comes from, because entrepreneurs are wondering... I see Mr Paternotte, who first wants to hold the praises on Volendam again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u182	This time on Edam. I understand that's a very nice place too. I get there less often than I do in Volendam. NBTC has a very sympathetic strategy and the Secretary of State just said that they are very successful. Well, they are indeed very successful. See that every day in Amsterdam. They're incredibly good at attracting those tourists. This strategy is sympathetic: spread through Amsterdam. The director said: people will go to Van Gogh Museum and then we can say "Oh, how nice you are, but you will also go to the Kröller-Müller, because there are also great things to see." Experience only shows that tourists on average spend about two or three days in the Netherlands and that it is very difficult to get them out of that city if they are already there. That is why I believe that this change of strategy should be stepped up. Really no longer focused on via Amsterdam and then looking somewhere else, but just to focus on other places in the Netherlands, you mentioned some of them. Are you prepared to discuss this with NBTC and also consult experts on whether the strategy that has now been put in place can really work to ease the pressure on the capital and to help places that would like to get more tourists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u183	Yeah, I can be brief about that. I see the problem in Amsterdam. I live near it myself, so I get there all the time. And then you're thinking, "Can we get more people to do this?" At the same time I see other beautiful places in the Netherlands that I think: why aren't a thousand people here enjoying? So I definitely want to do that. NBTC itself has indicated that it sees the point, so let's give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u184	I can only be very satisfied with that. Then I have one more question. The strategy of the municipality of Amsterdam itself is aimed at spreading outside the centre of that city and more through that metropolis region. You said that the assignment to NBTC is not to do so in cooperation with Amsterdam. I would actually like to ask you whether you would like to make this possible, because it is precisely this cooperation that can ensure that this strategy is in line. The strategy of the municipality of Amsterdam is no longer to bring people to the city centre, so that fits in the same row.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u185	I think we mean the same thing. I wonder what exactly is the other thing in Mr Paternotte's question. If he asks if I want to talk to NBTC to see how we can get more people from the centre of Amsterdam and let them go to other places, my answer is yes. Was that the question Mr Paternotte asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u186	Yes or no, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u187	No. You said the NBTC does not have the mandate to cooperate with the municipality of Amsterdam on marketing, Secretary of State. Since the municipality of Amsterdam itself tries to spread outside the city centre via Amsterdam Marketing, so not to bring more people to the city centre, I would think it would be a good idea if their mission were to work together. Are you willing to include that in those conversations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u188	Yes. I did not quite understand the question, but the answer to this question is also yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u189	Does the Secretary of State think that would have helped Mr Paternotte's initiative in recent days if there had been a D66 group in Amsterdam who had not been tourists for years...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u190	This does not seem to me to be a useful question, because then Mr Paternotte will ask for speaking time. Moreover, we are not very interested in the views of the Secretary of State on various parties. We are here to judge the rulers and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u191	Then let me ask the question differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u192	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u193	Does the Secretary of State agree that Amsterdam, whether it has been the city administration or opposition groups, has been working very hard for years to attract more tourists and more congresses to the city and that it might not have been so convenient?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u194	Yes, but you could also ask that question about Volendam. People live there, just like in Amsterdam, who are extremely proud of where they were born, where they live and where they work, but at some point your success becomes too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u195	Let's move on to the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at Mr Amhaouch's request for a public digital register. I understand where the question comes from. It is good that companies have a clear picture of the decisions we make and that governments take them and are transparent about them. At the same time, you have to give governments in their operations room to make choices. Because the question is what such a register looks like, what should it be? Bottoms up? Any vacancy in which a lawyer is asked is also tendered. How far does that go? So let me just look at how you can deal with this, also to prevent all kinds of administrative burdens being put back on governments that we all have to pay again. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my speech. I hope I have been able to convey how much I would like to commit to entrepreneurship and digitalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u197	I was all ears, and that certainly applies to those things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u198	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u199	Mr President, I did not receive an answer to the question I initially asked about the timetable for mainport Eindhoven. I think that is very important because there are very great developments in the south-east of the Netherlands and in the Eindhoven region. This also applies to Brabant, Gelderland and Limburg. I think it is very important that this timetable also fits the ambition and need of that region. Can the Secretary of State clarify that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yes. One of the other topics that was immediately put on my plate was the National Action Agenda Brainport Eindhoven. That's a wonderful plan about how you can strengthen and speed things up in all kinds of ways. As Mr Amhaouch knows, there is also money waiting to be spent on a large number of topics, including Eindhoven. What am I gonna do? I have another discussion with the Minister of LNV, Carola Schouten, and the tractors of that agenda next week. In that we want to see which pieces are in there. What's in other places in the coalition agreement? What do you have left? At the end of January, the ministers responsible will discuss how to fill this out. The months after that, I actually want to use it to see exactly what we can put underneath that National Agenda Brainport Eindhoven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u201	Is the Secretary of State prepared to send us a note when she has had discussions with the Minister of LNV, who deals with that envelope, about what these process steps will look like? I think that the region also has a right to know what these steps are going to be like, and I think that is very important. What can they expect in spring? What can they expect halfway through the year? That way they can change their plans accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u202	Well, we'll talk to the people at the end of December. Then that will be told to them as well. But perhaps Mr Amhaouch means to ask whether the Chamber could also be informed. This is a request that I will pass on to the Minister of LNV, because she is the director of that 950 million budget. So I think it is up to her to explain to the Chamber how she is going to fill that out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u203	I thank the Secretary of State for her contribution. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. I would like to give the floor to Mr Graus, on behalf of the Group of the Party for Freedom. Mr Jetten wants to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u204	Mr President, could we perhaps suspend for two minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u205	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u206	We will continue with the second term of the Chamber. The first speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Graus of the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u207	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would, of course, like to thank the directors for their reply, both in writing and orally. I always find it a bit difficult in writing, because then you can hardly react to it; I just noticed that. I'm more of a debate person. I prefer it like before, that the debates last until three, four o'clock in the morning and that you'll be out. All this written talk, I honestly don't like it, because I haven't been able to respond well to all those answers. They're often woolly answers that don't do you any good and that don't answer my question at all. I'm really gonna try to change that with a couple of MPs, because I'd rather not. Mr. Chairman. From now on, I will not be able to speak of cucumber without thinking of the Minister for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u208	And you're a great consumer of cucumbers, we all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u209	Really, that's fair. Until I die, every cucumber will remind me of Minister Wiebes. That's unbelievable. Mr. Chairman. As far as the VDL story is concerned, I did indeed ask what the cabinet could do to promote Dutch products more. It's possible. There are indeed what I called'mases and holes', also in procurement rules, which gives it to the Dutch producers. The same goes for the fleet. It's possible. The French and the Germans make much more use of it than we do. That's just a fact. Look at that before cars drive the cops. That's gonna be a lot of cars they're gonna be producing themselves. Now we do have Donkervoort and the like, which unfortunately we cannot use with the police, but since recently also Minis and BMW's made in Holland, in Born even, so made in Limburg. It's possible. There are exceptions. The province of Limburg has also made use of this. You can say at some point: boys, I'm sorry, it's so many thousands of jobs for our country. Everyone understands this, even within the European Commission, because it happens in other countries. So I would like to ask for that again. I shall also table a motion which will touch it a little bit in the near future. I'm really assuming they're gonna do that. I'll start by reading my motions. Thank you, by the way, to the Secretary of State, that at least in the conversation with Mrs Verhagen, she is the CEO of our proud PostNL, one of the major private employers who is going to involve post-mobiles. That's a mobile post office. We talked about it in the first term. It's actually literally a P.O. box. In the small cores in the shrinkage areas you could even carry around medicines; even the CDA, Mr Atsma was, once again supported me in the past. So it's really something very positive. Thank you for taking that with you, I'll tell the Secretary of State, through the chairman. Thank you for at least having a conversation with the two fairground associations we have, the BOVAK and the NKB. Of course, I understand that she has to talk about national directives, rules and laws that they run into, but perhaps the Secretary of State can talk with the UNG about their problems such as the undermining crime and the ridiculously high stats in the municipalities. The Secretary of State may be able to involve the VNG in this, because I would like that so much. Mr President, my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from the planned increase in the low VAT rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u210	That again has to do with the level playing field. So with 'heard the debate' I also refer to everything I said in the first term. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to waive the proposed flight tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u211	A level playing field, I said, with Asia and the Middle East. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a promotion plan for Made in Holland products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u212	Now that Mr. Elias is gone, I can say "made in Holland." Mr. Elias wouldn't normally let me. Now I can use English terms again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to submit to the Chamber, by mid-2018 at the latest, the proposed protection measures for companies of vital national interest, both strategically, financially and socially,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u213	This motion has been modified 33 times to get some more support, so I'm grateful to the messengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u214	That's why it's so long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u215	That's why the messenger is so tired. The rear messenger is tired of passing the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the impact of VAT inequality with neighbouring countries on e.g. NL, including a border impact assessment on so-called road leakage effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u216	Then the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that companies of national interest, including PostNL, Schiphol and KLM, have to compete in a completely unequal playing field against foreign companies that even receive state aid;]] [[noting that our national pride, the maritime sector, can also be passed by imposed procurement rules;]] [[calls on the Government, together with maritime Netherlands, to ensure that as many investment programmes as possible, including calls for tenders, remain within the national tricolor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u217	A blessed night, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u218	Nice to meet you, too. We're almost there, 45 minutes away. I call Mr Veldman of the VVD Group. He has five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u219	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for the written and oral reply this evening. It was good to hear from the Minister that he was trying to retrieve my literal words from yesterday about innovation. I said that innovation should be spent on innovation. The literal text was: "that it should not be spent on things that look a bit like it." The Minister then made an attempt to understand what the Chamber meant to say. His translation was that funds should be spent mainly on TO2 institutions and public-private partnerships. He got that right. In this respect, we agree and I am confident that the funds will be spent in the right way. But for 2018 there is already money on the shelf and it is almost 2018, so it does require a bit of speed. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas T02 institutions play a crucial role in the development of knowledge for the market, dissemination of knowledge to the market and application of knowledge in the market;]] [[Whereas societal themes such as energy transition, sustainability, agriculture, water, food, quantum, high-tech, nano and photonics offer important opportunities for Dutch business;]] [[Whereas public-private partnerships have been successful in promoting private funding for public research in the top sectors policy in recent years;]] [[Whereas SMEs play an important role in a vital knowledge-based economy and in applying innovative solutions to societal challenges;]] [[Considering that the coalition agreement makes 75 million available for 2018 and that knowledge institutions and industry need rapid clarity in order to be able to effectively deploy these funds for the year 2018;]] [[Calls on the Government to clarify the use of funds for 2018 prior to the Innovation AO of 8 February 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman, Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u220	Then the Wbso. Good to hear from the minister that he sees room to keep at least the first disc for the starters at the same level. With that there is still an ambition for the second disc. I understand very well that the Minister cannot say 'I will solve this tomorrow', but the ambition is there as far as I am concerned, because that percentage reduction is not a good system. I pointed that out in the first period. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the promotion of innovation remains crucial for addressing societal challenges and achieving economic growth opportunities for societal transformation;]] [[Considering that the Wbso is an important tool for reducing private costs of R&D, thus bringing investment in research and innovation more into line with societal needs;]] [[Whereas the budget for the Wbso is fixed, while the base (innovative employment and wages) is growing in trend, which is likely to decrease Wbso rates under unchanged policies;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to counter this trend-based decline in Wbso rates, finding cover within the burden framework, and informing the Chamber about this for Princess Day 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u221	I think that would be fine, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u222	That's what we're gonna do. We have to be precise, Mr. Veldman, I'm sorry. That's what we're paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u223	I come to SMEs. It is good to hear that the Secretary of State is going to work hard on many fronts for SMEs and that she wants to work on a number of specific issues. At the same time, the VVD sees work in several areas, fortunately, for SMEs. It is important, however, that there is good guidance from EZ on everything that happens from different departments, so that a is not worked against each other and b is mainly advanced together, and so that ultimately SMEs also reap the benefits from it. This calls for a common approach. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in recent years, despite the economic crisis, Dutch entrepreneurs in small and medium-sized enterprises have continued to work hard for growth, innovation and more work and have thus made an important contribution to the recovery;]] [[Considering that the cabinet is right to allow SMEs to continue to reap the benefits of this;]] [[Considering that SME measures in the government agreement are spread across many policy areas and that this calls for a targeted and coherent approach in the areas of staffing, financing, regulation, application of innovation and digitisation, taxation and international trade;]] [[calls on the Government to send to the Chamber, before the spring paper is published, a plan of approach for SMEs with a concrete implementation of the measures contained in the government agreement with an ambitious timetable, and an initiative to make SME measures more transparent from an integrated SME service;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman, Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u224	I'm coming to my final motion. I've already heard the Secretary of State say she wants to go to a digitization stop next year. We believe that this should be an annual thing. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a leading position in Europe in terms of digitisation, connectivity and innovation;]] [[noting that the Netherlands has already achieved many European goals but cannot rest on its laurels;]] [[Whereas in order for the Netherlands to maintain its leading position, the market, science and government should jointly define their ambitions and concrete objectives in this area;]] [[calls on the Government to organise, together with science and the market, an annual digitisation stop, involving an exchange of available knowledge and innovations and agreed concrete objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Veldman, Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u225	Thank you. We are going to listen to Mrs Yeşilgöz, also from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u226	Mr President, how much speaking time do I have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u227	Six minutes, but it can be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u228	I'll keep it shorter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall now think of every cucumber of Mr Graus, who is thinking of Mr Wiebes. So we all have real life traumas that we walk here. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and my colleagues here for a good debate. I thought it was a good debate because, despite our different views and backgrounds, we were able to talk constructively about what we have to do on the climate issue. Grey or green, although I do not believe in such contradictions at all, we all want to leave our planet well behind for generations after us. Because this cabinet takes this responsibility so seriously, we are pursuing an ambitious climate policy. The tone of the debate yesterday and today, I believe, shows that almost everyone here feels this responsibility and shares ambition. Of course, we occasionally differ fundamentally on how we are going to shape this. It's okay. I think and I hope this will make us sharper in the end. Mr. Chairman. I welcome the ambition and leadership shown by this cabinet. From the day the cabinet is in operation, I see both our Prime Minister and Minister Wiebes taking steps to achieve the goals we have set. Mark Rutte recently underlined our ambitions again in Paris, and Minister Wiebes sees and works on the urgency of achieving these goals. They take responsibility, and that's good. There is no longer time to debate with each other here, while the real work has to be done outside, by companies, by entrepreneurs and by the people at home. This is the only way to achieve these goals. We're gonna need everyone to do that. We're just gonna do this to each other. Those companies and entrepreneurs are eager, as Dutch people always put their shoulders on, see opportunities, come up with new ideas and want to lead the way. The VVD wants to provide plenty of space for that ambition, innovate with guts, so that clean energy will be available on an ever larger scale. After that, we need to be international farmers with our Dutch knowledge, so that we will be leading the way in the field of water and food. As a policy, it is up to us to facilitate this by providing space and removing obstacles to entrepreneurs. That is why I have tabled a motion to wind up my second speech on this point. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that "innovation" is an important key word in achieving climate objectives;]] [[believes that innovation offers economic opportunities for Dutch companies and entrepreneurs and not only costs money, but can also generate money;]] [[Considering the government's commitment to increasing the focus on energy and climate challenges and the availability of risk capital with Invest-NL, including for energy transition projects;]] [[noting that businesses and entrepreneurs experience regulatory bottlenecks to implement innovations;]] [[Calls on the Government, through a digital platform, to identify bottlenecks and barriers to innovation and to inform the Chamber in 2018 on the outcome and way in which the Cabinet offers more scope for innovation and can use the available resources for innovation targeted and cost-effectively to achieve the greatest result, namely as much CO reduction as possible;]] [[invites the Government to inform the House of Representatives on how the agreements on innovation in the coalition agreement are worked out in a concrete and as cost-effective way as possible and to take into account the findings of the platform,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the rulers for the comprehensive and constructive response. I am particularly grateful to the Minister for having described in depth what he means by 'cost-effectiveness' and also for not being cheaply priced, that all social costs should be seen and that the basis of support and fair distribution are important. He's gonna take all that with him anyway. I think that's very important, so I appreciate that. I would have liked to have heard about the credo'maximum justice per measure'. If the Minister has anything else to say about that, that's fine. I do think it is important to be able to carry out our monitoring task properly. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to present, immediately after the conclusion of the national climate and energy agreement, how and where the cost of climate policy falls towards 2030 and to further consider whether there is a need to take compensatory measures through income policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Raan and Mr Öztürk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u230	We also talked about funding. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pension funds invest 1,200 billion outside the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that pension funds and other financial institutions invest a large part of their capital within the Netherlands in renewable energy, sustainable transport and energy saving;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude an agreement with pension funds and other financial institutions with the aim of increasing their sustainable investment in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u231	I am also pleased that the Minister has given a positive opinion on my amendment, but that he has also said something about the importance of ensuring it better in the future. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas energy saving in companies, offices and schools is important to realise climate ambitions;]] [[Whereas it is also necessary to move towards the 100 PJ target of additional energy savings under the Energy Agreement;]] [[noting that much of the delay in energy saving is due to the lack of adequate capacity for the current energy saving obligation in the Environmental Management Act and its enforcement;]] [[Whereas it should be clear to companies what measures are legally required to comply with these measures;]] [[calls on the Government to improve and supplement the energy saving obligation under the Environmental Management Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u232	Two further motions on the future, first of all on the importance of maintaining the current netting regime. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the previous government has always ensured that the current netting scheme would continue to apply at least until 2023;]] [[Whereas stable government policies are essential for the success of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the current netting arrangement at least until 2023,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is sufficient space in the North Sea north of the Wadden Islands for at least 10 gigawatts of wind energy;]] [[Whereas the province of Groningen calls on the Minister to rapidly allow wind farms over the Wadden Islands;]] [[calls on the Government to give the green light as soon as possible to identify locations for wind energy parks above the Wadden Islands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u233	Mr. Chairman. I am going to try to replace the reference to cucumber, because it calls on me to associate it with cucumber time. That is a weak time, in which little business is done, and that is not exactly what both rulers want to radiate, I think. I call on the Secretary of State to visit the village of Silvolde in the Achterhoek, where I was born by chance. And maybe you'll change your mind about what the most beautiful village in the Netherlands is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u234	There is another question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u235	There's something I don't quite understand about GroenLinks. Those wind farms are causing a lot of trouble to the fishing industry and even the defence industry. That is so far as GroenLinks is concerned, I think, but animals, marine mammals and birds, are the scarf of those windmills. When I see what your predecessors have always done for animals, nature and marine mammals, I cannot understand why you are making such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u236	Yet GroenLinks has long been far above the current Geminipark for wind energy at sea, especially in these locations, which are very far in the North Sea. That's where great winds can take place at sea. Of course, environmental considerations, fish, and all these things in the sea itself are taken into account, but I do not see why we should not have these wind farms there, because the damage is to be seen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u237	Rounding off, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u238	There is, of course, moving insight. If you do know that marine mammals suffer from it, and birds, and you name it all, what GroenLinks always stands for. I cannot understand that, I must honestly say, again, but it is good that it is fixed in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u239	One more sentence on this: I think that marine mammals suffer much more damage from the huge amount of plastic in the oceans. That is much more harmful, so we better do something about it than look at those relatively small areas where wind can be realized at sea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u240	Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u241	Mr. Chairman. A new minister and a new beginning for Groningen, we are very curious. I welcome the amount of consultation, but I am a little concerned that the Empire will have to act. We hope to help the Minister as GroenLinks. In order to give support, I have a number of motions. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Groningen gas is used abroad to generate electricity;]] [[noting that heating is often not an adequate alternative but that there is ample capacity for power generation in Western Europe;]] [[calls on the government, with priority, to phase out the generation of electricity from Groningen gas abroad and to urge the German authorities to stop the use of gas for electricity generation as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EUR 300 million of Groningen gas is wasted annually by SMEs by heating empty shops and offices;]] [[Whereas combating this waste, e.g. through water-side adjustment of central heating installations and the use of timers, contributes to the Government's intention to reduce the use of gas in Groningen and also lower energy costs for SMEs;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with SMEs in the Netherlands to ensure that this waste of natural gas is avoided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in recent years there has been an increasing cost of shutting down the gas connection;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to support all those who wish to be closed;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that persons wishing to have their gas connection closed on their own request can do so at the lowest possible rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-74]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-75]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u242	And then my final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that NAM is responsible for mining damage caused by gas extraction in Groningen;]] [[noting that the NAM has relatively low equity;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that there is sufficient capacity for the NAM to compensate and inform the Court of Justice of the mining damage in the event of a major earthquake or over a much longer period of time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u244	Thank you. We're on 20 motions and the night's still young. Mrs Mulder, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u245	Yes, Mr. Chairman, and I'll have one of my own. I'll start with that right away, and then I'll explain to her. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the case of collective income, the reduced rate remains very complex;]] [[Whereas the energy transition needs support and bottom-up projects provide support for the transition to a sustainable energy supply;]] [[Whereas compensation for the supply of sustainable, collectively generated energy can be simpler than a tax incentive;]] [[calls on the Government to include a separate scheme for energy cooperatives solar PV in the SDE+ scheme, such as separate schemes for wind-on-sea projects and biofertilisers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u246	Mr. Chairman. The Minister replied in writing, but I do not agree enough with the text we agreed on in the coalition agreement. It states that there will be a separate scheme for energy cooperatives that will make it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects in their immediate vicinity. Perhaps the Minister could explain this further. If he says he wants to take another look at that and come back to the AO about energy, I'd like to continue the motion, but this is the time to mark exactly what we're going to do here. That is why I tabled this motion. Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to the Cabinet for the commitments we have received, especially in the written round that has taken place. The Minister is telling us today that he is going to look for Norg at a damage protocol that is in line with the Groninger Damage Protocol. However, I would like to ask the Minister to examine first of all whether it could be covered by the Groningen Damage Protocol. If that is not the case for any reason, then I would like to hear arguments as to why this would not be possible. It might then apply to Drenthe and other parts of the country. Mr. Chairman. The EUR 50 million that we make available annually for Groningen has brought the CDA into the coalition agreement with real purpose in order to make use of the sustainability and reinforcement missions and to let that go hand in hand. I understand the Minister in such a way that he would like to get to work and see how you can make good use of that in the coming year. Could we start at Opwierde-Zuid in Appingedam? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to go through my papers for a while. I see that time goes very fast. We believe it is important that the Oppenhuizen commitment to zero measurement is properly respected and that this also applies to the municipality of Westerveld. There too, people are busy working on new gas extraction. Mr. Chairman. Then the Minister's time planning to talk to the industrial and energy sectors to get rid of the Groningen gas. I know that much needs to be done, but perhaps the Minister can also make a commitment on this at the beginning of next year. In any case, I think that we have heard a great proposal on all aspects of the directive here this evening. I am very pleased and happy with that, but I still hope for a concreteisation. I challenge our rulers to do so in the first quarter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u247	Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. I am confident that the Secretary of State and the Minister of State must first mention the Minister and then the Secretary of State for the coming period can make something beautiful in the department of EZK. That's why I have some presents to help them do that. I'll start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that governments are legally obliged to pay their accounts within 30 days;]] [[noting that the government's payment deadlines monitor shows that in 2016 governments have not yet complied with this and that, in particular, provinces and municipalities fail to comply with the law;]] [[Whereas the public authorities have an exemplary role to play;]] [[Considering that monitoring of payment periods by governments is useful, but that more will be needed to improve the payment behaviour of governments;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the various parties concerned, to draw up a concrete plan aimed at ensuring that public authorities pay their accounts within 30 days and to inform the Court annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several public authorities are organising more and more self-run economic activities;]] [[Considering the lack of transparency among contracting entities, which often leaves entrepreneurs unaware or late of planned public procurement, thus giving them no opportunity to show whether they can offer a better alternative;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with SMEs-Netherlands, to examine how to set up a single public digital register for contracting authorities to report in advance all planned decisions on tender (and quasi-contractors) in order to promote transparency among tenderers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Paternotte, Mr Veldman, Mr Bruins and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-79]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Veldman, Mr Paternotte, Mr Bruins and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u249	He's already gone, Mr. Chairman. Even if I do track and aviation, that train is already gone. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that innovation and top-level sector policies focus on developing new knowledge with front-runners and that there are few tools to transfer knowledge to SMEs, which often do not have the ability to invest in R&D;]] [[Whereas it is important for a vital knowledge-based economy, (through) growth opportunities for SMEs and addressing societal issues that new knowledge is developed and that this knowledge is transferred rapidly and widely;]] [[whereas the government agreement states that SMEs deserve a stronger role in innovation policy and that the SME Innovation Stimulation Region and Top Sectors (MIT) and Innovation Credits for SMEs are to be expanded;]] [[calls on the Government to pay particular attention to the objective of "wide dissemination of knowledge to SMEs by applied knowledge organisations" and to examine the possibilities outside the MIT, and to inform the Court of Justice thereof for the Spring paper, in the context of the extension of the SME innovation incentive scheme (MIT),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u250	You're kidding me. My final motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the SME leading group is in particular working on digitisation and new business models;]] [[noting that there is also an opportunity for large SMEs to increase labour productivity and digital security through the application of digitalisation;]] [[Whereas this calls for the acceleration of knowledge transfer on the application of digital technologies to SMEs;]] [[calls on the Government to promote the acceleration of the use of digitalisation by large SMEs by launching regional practical tests in the first quarter of 2018, to explore the possibilities of facilitating the use of digital scans and to explore how best practices can be scaled up from large SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Paternotte, Mr Veldman and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u251	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, we have talked about a lot of different issues. Unfortunately, we have not talked so much about a subject that is close to my heart. That is industrial policy. The SP is in favour of an activist government that does not look away when our interests, when it comes to employment and innovation, are at stake. One of the topics we discussed is the protection of listed companies. As far as we are concerned, the proposals that the government is going to make to better protect companies should not be linked to the measures that companies themselves can take. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that all listed companies should be able to benefit from legal protection against hostile takeovers;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the draft legislative proposal for a legal period of reflection in such a way that companies with an existing protection structure can also invoke the period of reflection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Hijink and Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u252	And then there's something else that stayed down last night. There was a debate yesterday about the post. Something just came through at the SP. So I couldn't file the motions I had prepared yesterday. Well, I guess I'll do that now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government is organising a Postal Dialogue to shape the future of the postal market;]] [[considers that an open dialogue means that no possible scenarios should be excluded in advance;]] [[calls on the Government to allow all possible scenarios within the Postal Dialogue to be discussed, including the possibility of making the postal delivery in the Netherlands a public task,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have heard many fine words from the Minister, but still very few concrete, very few actions. So I thought I'd help him make some introductions. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fossil sector is supported by over 7 billion a year in taxpayers' money;]] [[considers that there is a significant lack of transparency in the use of these resources;]] [[considers that this support to the fossil sector hampers the development of the sustainable sector;]] [[calls on the government to make an annual budgetary assessment of the extent to which the fossil sector receives financial support from the government, consisting of all fiscal measures, public (co) financing and investments by state-owned companies, and to use this aid to be phased out rapidly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Safe Living Centre has earned 2.4 million in the treatment of earthquake damage;]] [[noting that many families are waiting in vain for adequate compensation;]] [[declares that making a profit by the Centre Safe Living is highly undesirable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Groningen's gas exports are rising;]] [[considers that in view of the broad shared desire to further reduce gas extraction, this is highly undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce exports of Groningen gas as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that households are barely benefiting from existing sustainability measures;]] [[Whereas large-scale sustainability of the rental sector will lead to accelerated innovation, cost reduction and CO reduction;]] [[calls on the government to set up a public organisation that will make the rental sector more sustainable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-85]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-86]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-87]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u254	Many people have thanked the Minister and the Secretary of State, but I would like to thank you as chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u255	Well, thank you, too, as a Member of Parliament. Then Mr Paternotte of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u256	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the President, thank you to the officials for their help in answering and thanking the Minister and the Secretary of State for their very first contribution to a budget debate. They have actually painted a beautiful picture of the Netherlands by taking us along many innovative examples, examples of entrepreneurship that they have found throughout the Netherlands. All the other colleagues have done the same. We've been through all the provinces. We've come from Volendam to the Achterhoek. Only one province hasn't been mentioned, and that's Flevoland. I would like to mention Flevoland. In Flevoland, in Marknesse, is the Netherlands Air and Space Centre. No Airbus or Boeing will go up until it's tested in Flevoland. That too is a beautiful place full of innovation. I have a few points to make on what the Minister has said. He was talking about pps and actually asked whether we in the Chamber could indicate whether we believe that innovation resources should be used to ensure that matching can return to 30%. That's the case. It would be good if the Minister would inform us of the state of play. Of course, we see this as part of the balance sheet. It is not the case that the entire innovation budget has to go up, but some can certainly be used to restore this matching. On the SBIRs, the Minister asked the Chamber to give a ruling. Does the Chamber see SBIRs as an instrument of innovation policy? We're about to make a proposal. As far as the Wbso is concerned, Mr Veldman has just tabled a motion calling for a reduction in the percentages in the future by also looking at the burden framework. Does the Minister read that as 'the burden framework for companies', if the Minister leaves the ruling on that motion to the Chamber in a moment? The Secretary of State addressed the ACM, the basic package and the knowledge that is being strengthened there. My question is whether digital competition is included. The KvK is mentioned by the Secretary of State in the written reply. The raffle discount will be abolished on 1 January. It is said that this represents a discount for most customers. This is the case for most customers, but not for most purchases. What does this mean for the price of customers of data from the KvK? Can the Secretary of State calculate the average? Is it prepared to withdraw the raffle discount until the Trade Registry Act has been dealt with? Then I have a few more motions, which I'm about to read out in a hurry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many municipalities and their inhabitants are affected by the tourist rental of housing;]] [[Whereas the collection of tourist tax on holiday rentals is a problem for many municipalities;]] [[Whereas many municipalities are interested in the possibility of collecting local taxes via the holiday rental platforms;]] [[Whereas smaller towns and cities have difficulty in meeting with the large platforms to establish agreements on the enforcement of the Housing Act and the collection of taxes;]] [[whereas the municipality of Amsterdam has concluded an agreement with Airbnb on the collection of tourist tax and the reduction of negative effects of the tourist rental of housing;]] [[Whereas a previously adopted chamberal motion called on the government to provide a toolbox for municipalities to maintain and regulate holiday rentals;]] [[calls on the government to involve the collection of tourist tax in the instruments currently under development so that municipalities can tackle excesses in tourist rentals and reach binding agreements with platforms;]] [[calls on the government to inform the Chamber of the progress of discussions with the municipalities on these instruments in the first quarter of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 3D-printed products are increasingly used in various sectors such as construction, industry and medical;]] [[Whereas 3D printed products are a sustainable and high-quality alternative to traditional materials in these sectors;]] [[Whereas it is not desirable for the Netherlands to have obstacles to the use of 3D printing;]] [[noting that 3D-printed products cannot yet be optimally applied due to a lack of current legislation and regulations on certification, validation and liability;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and address obstructive laws and regulations regarding the application of 3D-printed products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Moorlag and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-89]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Paternotte, Mr Amhaouch, Mr Bruins, Mr Veldman, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u257	The next motion is a short one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SBIR calls are a successful way to stimulate innovative start-ups;]] [[Whereas SBIR calls in the United States have led to the creation of successful companies such as Symantec, Qualcomm and iRobot;]] [[Invites the Government to reserve part of the additional investments in applied research for SBIR calls,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SBIR's calls can stimulate socially relevant innovations;]] [[Considering that serious gaming can be used to find solutions to societal challenges, for example to help people in integration, or to help people with neurological disorders such as ADHD, dyslexia or dementia;]] [[calls on the government to launch an SBIR call in the field of serious gaming to find solutions to societal challenges,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Bruins, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Öztürk and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-91]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Bruins, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Öztürk and Mr Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u259	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Jetten. We're on 35 motions by now. That's the "Ren Je Rot" stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u260	Mr President, I think we are going to overdo VWS in this way. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to both directors for the first-term response. I also said it in my first term: we have concluded the greenest government agreement ever, but it is now a matter of turning that into action. The Minister has made a flying start and that is a good thing too, because the Netherlands too has to do a lot of work. We must stop coal, generate more clean energy, save more energy and get less gas from Groningen. The Minister has made a nice speech about the costs of the transition and the recipe that the Netherlands uses, but I also hope that in a few years' time we will not talk about the costs of the transition, but above all about the opportunities offered by the Netherlands to create a new green economy, with which we can also make a lot of money about the rest of the world. I welcome the Minister's commitments on how he intends to tackle the energy and climate agreement, how he intends to improve standards and enforcement and set a good example from the government. I think it is important that we, as a Chamber, give some standards on a number of subjects, and that is why I have tabled two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 51% of gas demand comes from the built environment and SMEs and that 96% of heating homes depend on gas;]] [[considering the importance of lower gas extraction for Groningen;]] [[Whereas, for example, hybrid CV systems are a good alternative to gas-fired central heating boilers;]] [[Whereas clarity from the public authorities is important for consumers and the market;]] [[Whereas a transition can take place gradually by replacing the gas-fired central heating boiler in the case of dwellings at a natural replacement moment;]] [[Notes that a gradual phasing-out of gas-fired central heating boilers is desirable in order to reduce the total gas demand;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a plan to gradually limit the supply of heating systems to hybrid heat systems, fully electric heat systems or comparable sustainable alternatives as soon as possible, taking into account their practical feasibility and affordability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u261	We also want to take steps on innovation and clean energy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas heat from the earth is a constant source of clean energy that can be exploited through ultra-deep geothermal and geothermal applications;]] [[whereas geothermal energy has the potential to play an important role in the sustainability of our heat supply and thus in the energy transition;]] [[Considering that in June 2017 the Green Deal Ultradiep Geothermal was signed between, among other things, the government and EBN to stimulate this technological development;]] [[calls on the Government to involve EBN in geothermal projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder and Mr Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u262	In my first term, I said that if we really show action and take great steps in terms of climate and energy, we could be an example for both home and abroad. The city of Nijmegen also succeeded in this, because next year it will be called the green capital of Europe. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Nijmegen is the first city in the Netherlands to bear the title of European Green Capital;]] [[noting that Nijmegen is a city that is at the forefront of sustainability and that this is a unique opportunity to further anchor and develop sustainable knowledge and innovative power;]] [[Whereas other EU cities that were previously Green Capital were able to count on substantial financial contributions from their government;]] [[Calls on the Government to take advantage of joint opportunities by contributing to events and activities on the five themes of European Green Capital that strengthen the position of Nijmegen as European Green Capital and the Netherlands and to inform the Chamber of Representatives at the beginning of 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Veldman, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-95]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u263	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their reply. I'm filing a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the energy transition, including the energy neutralisation of the housing stock, requires large numbers of technicians and professionals, while there are already large deficits;]] [[Whereas shortages of technicians and professionals threaten the progress of the energy transition;]] [[calls on the Government to include, within the climate and energy agreement to be concluded, agreements on the timely training, retraining and recruitment of the necessary technicians and professionals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Beckerman, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Jetten, Mr Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Agnes Mulder.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u264	Then there's the second motion. The Minister spoke in good terms about the fact that Groningers are in a worse position than residents elsewhere in the Netherlands. He has said that it is a guiding principle that any disadvantage that Groningers lead by gas extraction should be removed or compensated. I did not ask for a firm commitment to this, but I do think it is important for the Chamber to give its opinion and for the Minister to make a commitment or to accept the motion. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Minister stated that there was a state failure in the gas extraction area of Groningen;]] [[Whereas, as a result of the extraction of gas, Groningers should not be in a worse position than residents elsewhere in the country;]] [[calls on the Government to take as a guiding principle that any disadvantage suffered by Groninger by gas extraction is removed or compensated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u265	Mr. Chairman. Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that less gas extraction leads to fewer tremors and the damage continues to increase on a daily basis;]] [[Whereas the reduction of only 1.5 billion cubic metres established for the cabinet period 2017 to 2021 is insufficient for security in Groningen;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce gas extraction more quickly and further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the growth of the economy is accompanied by increasing tension on the housing market, infrastructure and labour market in the Randstad provinces;]] [[Whereas this affects the sustainable growth potential of the whole economy;]] [[calls on the Government to develop policies and take measures to spread economic activities more and better to the South, East and North and to inform the Chamber of Spring Papers on this matter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Beckerman and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-98]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u266	Finally, Mr President. If the cucumber time shifts to December, it seems to me that it would be a good reason for the PVV to reconsider the position on the extent to which the climate is actually changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u267	Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. Oh, a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u268	I was in the back of the room, but I heard something about cucumbers and the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u269	That's all you want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u270	When it comes to Minister Wiebes and cucumbers, I get it, but I don't understand the relationship with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u271	It's all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u272	I'd like to know what Mr. Moorlag said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u273	It is known that the PVV denies climate change. My point was: if the cucumber time shifts to December, that should be the reason for revising the PVV position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u274	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm glad I came forward. I have been an energy spokesperson for years, from the beginning: first for the Wilders Group and later for the PVV. We have never denied that there is a climate change. Never! Not a single spokesperson. All we have said is that if so many dozens of percent of climate change comes from volcanism and evolution of the earth and human beings can only really influence a few percent, then let's get on with other things. That's what we said. We never denied it. This is where the ice age used to be! This is where mammoths once walked around. Imagine that! So we're not gonna deny that, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u275	Fine, then we'll clear that up. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u276	The day is only a minute old and I have learned something again today, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u277	Hold it. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u278	Very nice! A debate on the greenhouse effect, the increased greenhouse effect and the difference between them. Wow! I can really take my heart off this, but I need to speak quickly now. I have seen today a minister who is aware of the importance of research and innovation and a State Secretary who is aware of the importance of professionals, entrepreneurs and technology. And that really makes me hot. I would like to thank the Minister for his presentation of the additional resources for applied research. These will be largely spent within the context of TO2 institutes, PPPs and SME innovation, meeting sectors and societal challenges. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her enthusiastic words about Smart Industry, of great importance for Dutch industry in the 21st century. It is good that the government keeps the Smart Industry agenda on the retina and that the current initiatives will be followed up. I have one more question and two more motions. The question is the Minister. During the OCW budget treatment, we have already heard from the Minister of Education that the two times 50 million for research infrastructure is intended for scientific facilities, in which TO2 institutions can also participate. I would also like to ask the Minister of EZK if he, as the guardian of applied research, will do his best to ensure that the TO2 institutes are indeed able to support this and that plans for technical and applied research infrastructures are assessed on the basis of independent and appropriate quality criteria. Mr President, two motions for resolutions. The first is about the Van Swinden laboratory, our national calibration and measurement institute. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that maintaining the fundamental knowledge base of the Van Swinden Laboratory (VSL) is indispensable for good measurement standards for business;]] [[noting that independence in the management of standards is crucial for reliable production and fair trade;]] [[noting that VSL is now fully privatised;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of the fundamental knowledge base of VSL on an annual basis and on the way in which the independence of standards management has been ensured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u279	And my second motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that entrepreneurs still experience high costs in tendering for tenders, despite the government's commitment to Better Contracting Parties;]] [[calls on the Government to endeavour to minimise tender costs in the case of tenders, to discuss this with co-governments and to inform the Court of Justice at least three times a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u280	I would like to explain that 'triennial' means once every three years, not three times a year, because we want to reduce costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u281	Well, that's convenient. Then we have one minute for Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Right, but the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the Schouten/Nijboer motion (34550, No. 41) calls on the Government to examine ways of improving access to finance for cooperatives with a social objective and to put forward concrete proposals to make this possible;]] [[Whereas energy cooperatives are currently experiencing difficulties in developing energy projects;]] [[Considering that the government is strongly committed to the energy transition and that energy cooperatives make an important contribution to it;]] [[calls on the government, together with banks, provinces and municipalities and supported by the Netherlands Investment Agency (NIA), to set up a revolving fund to improve access to financing in the development phase for energy cooperatives and to inform the Court of Justice of this by spring at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Blue Energy has been appointed one of the National Icons;]] [[whereas Blue Energy offers great opportunities for the energy transition and for energy storage, but is also an interesting export product for the Dutch water sector;]] [[Whereas a pilot project is under way in Katwijk, for which an administrative agreement has been concluded between Hoogheemraadschap Rijnland, Zuid-Holland Province and the municipalities of Katwijk and Noordwijk;]] [[calls on the Government to actively contribute to the implementation of the Blue Energy pilot project,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-102]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, too, for answering the questions. Thank you for not answering some of the questions, because we are learning a lot from them. In any case, we share the enthusiasm to do so, but we do not agree on its fundamentals. Don't let that stop us. However, we welcome the fact that the term 'post unexpected' and the fact that groups want to speed up the response, at least in the Minister's case, 'let them come'. We are very pleased with that. We thank him for that and we will see how we can fill that out. A few motions to help. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Exploration of Climate Goals was prepared by the PBL under the limited mandate to identify the technical measures that could be taken to achieve the necessary reduction targets in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to instruct the PBL to carry out a review of the broad climate impacts of measures on behavioural change and production volumes;]] [[calls on the government to include both the climate effects within the Netherlands and beyond in this exploration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that meat production has a high energy consumption and is accompanied by very high CO emissions;]] [[calls on the government to turn the standard into a standard vegetarian menu in public establishments and to order meat dishes on request;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that livestock farming is one of the largest polluters in the world and that a shrinkage of livestock is necessary to meet climate targets;]] [[whereas the Minister of EZK believes that "you shouldn't do half a job now if you know where you have to come out in 2050" and that "you should start earlier sometimes because you don't make it otherwise";]] [[calls on the Government to develop a transition agenda for the reduction of livestock farming in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that TU Delft believes that growing aviation makes it impossible to meet the climate targets;]] [[whereas the Minister of EZK believes that "you shouldn't do half of your work now if you know where you have to come out in 2050" and that "you sometimes have to start earlier because otherwise you won't make it";]] [[calls on the Government to develop a transition agenda for the reduction of aviation in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that, given the sustainability challenge we face, public funds should no longer be invested in sectors or developments that help us further away from achieving our climate goals;]] [[calls on the government to make public subsidies and incentive funds conditional on a project contributing to sustainability and having no adverse effects on humans, animals, nature and climate;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-104]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-105]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan, Beckerman and Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-106]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-107]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u284	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Bureau to draw up a committee to prepare a parliamentary inquiry into the illegal (indirect) discharge of chemicals into the environment and the involvement of the sector in the implementation of environmental legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u285	It's a parliamentary investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u286	So is a parliamentary investigation. The directors may express their opinion on this, but it is an internal Chamber matter. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u287	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three simple motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large proportion of the SDE+ funds are spent on the production of biogas from animal manure;]] [[noting that manure does not occur overnight, but is the residual product of an industry which is accompanied by high greenhouse gas emissions;]] [[noting that the fermentation of manure itself produces little energy and that food crops are digested on a large scale;]] [[noting that manure digesters cause major nuisances and risks to residents due, inter alia, to odour nuisance, explosion risk and the possible release of toxic gases;]] [[considers that gas from manure cannot be considered sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant any new subsidies to manure fermenters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all Dutch houses must be of gas by 2050;]] [[noting that network operators charge hundreds of euros per house for the closure of the gas connection;]] [[Whereas this constitutes a threshold for citizens to actually get rid of the gas;]] [[calls on the Government not to charge this amount to citizens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy is impossible without the participation of citizens;]] [[noting that for many homeowners the financial threshold for generating green electricity with solar panels is too high;]] [[Whereas uncertainty about the continuation of the netting scheme has a negative impact on the purchase and installation of solar panels;]] [[Whereas the current electricity tariffs generally provide for a seven-year netting scheme sufficient to recoup the full investment of solar panels;]] [[Calls on the Government to base its review of the netting scheme on customisation and to ensure buyers of solar panels that they can return the power to the network for seven years at the same rate they pay as consumers of that electricity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-110]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Graus, Mr Moorlag and Mr Öztürk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-111]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-XIII-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u289	Thank you. Mr Wassenberg was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u290	Mr President, I have just noticed that in my motion on item No. 65 made a minor typo. It says, "Princess Day 2019." That must be "Princess Day 2018."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u291	That's what we thought, yeah. We're gonna change that, with your permission. I take it the rulers can just give their verdict right now? No? "Just a moment" I hear from Minister Wiebes. Ten minutes? Fifteen minutes? Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u292	We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State first. The floor is up to her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u293	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Three more questions have been asked to me. I can answer that very briefly. Mr Paternotte asked me if the ACM would do digital competition. The answer to that is yes. Mr Paternotte asked me whether I think that the abolition of the raffle discount in the Chamber of Commerce could be postponed. The answer to that is no. The average amount per purchase was €2.65 and will be €2.30. And especially for SMEs, the abolition of the standard discount is a good thing. That's why I'm not going to do that. The last question to me was put by Mr Veldman. Let me just say what I'm gonna do. I would like to talk to the Minister of Finance to see what is going on here and what can be done about it. I think that's enough for this moment. I come to the motions that have been tabled. The first motion I have to deal with is that of Mr Graus in respect of item No. 60. It invites the government to draw up a promotion plan for "made in Holland" products. This is, of course, an interesting thought in itself. With Mr Graus I share love for Dutch products. At the same time, a lot of extra promotion is already being done. This motion does not belong in this debate either, but belongs with the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then I have a motion from Mr Graus on item No. 63. It invites the government to work with the maritime Netherlands to ensure that as many investment programmes as possible, including procurement, remain within the national tricolor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u294	This motion is contrary to European law, but the Netherlands is also an open trading nation. It would be undesirable if this were the policy, because if other countries were to do so, our Dutch economy would go downhill. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u295	Brief question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u296	So, Mr President, I would like to take this one motion. The motion in part No. 63, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u297	The last motion was the motion in part No. 63. Or are you referring to the motion on "made in Holland"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u298	Exactly. That motion about "made in Holland" I'm holding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u299	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (34775-XIII, No. 60). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u300	I just wanted to say something about this. It's possible. I said that in my first and second term. There are holes and loopholes that you can use. Our government has done so far really not enough. That's just the truth. So that's why I'm saying as much as I can. That's what it says. My motion says "as much as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u301	I said what I said about it. The Netherlands is an open trading nation, we export abroad and therefore I advise against the motion. I'll move on to Veldman c.s.'s motion. in piece No. 66, in which the government is asked to send a plan of action for small and medium-sized enterprises to the Chamber before the spring paper is published. Small and medium-sized enterprises have made an important contribution to the recovery of the economy. Last year, SMEs contributed more than 80% to overall growth. That is why the coalition agreement states that we owe our jobs, prosperity and opportunities to develop to a large extent to good, large small and medium-sized enterprises. This deserves some room. To this end, I want to draw up a plan of action for small and medium-sized enterprises, which gives concrete and ambitious coherence to all SME measures. I will send this to the Chamber before the spring note is published and leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 67 by Mr Veldman and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) the government is invited to "organise an annual digitalisation stop together with science and the market'. Digitisation is a priority. We can become Europe's digital frontrunner. I therefore intend to consult with my colleagues in order to arrive at a national digitisation strategy. We can't do this alone, we don't want this alone. All the actors mentioned must play a role in this. In January I start with a round table. That's why we're moving on. Of course, people must want to come to such a digital stop, but from that point of view, I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 79 tabled by Mr Amhaouch and others the government is invited to "develop a concrete plan in cooperation with the various parties concerned with the aim of ensuring that public authorities pay their accounts within 30 days." The government pays at least 95% of the invoices within 30 days. The annual monitor shows that in municipalities and provinces the percentage of invoices that have been paid within 30 days increases, but leaves still to be desired. At the same time, I have to say here that municipalities and provinces are autonomous in their financial system and that the responsibility for the system of domestic administration lies with my counterpart in the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Nor do they have any direct responsibility for their fellow governments. That's what they are to city councils and provincial states. It is likely that the VNG and the IPO can play a coordinating role. Subject to these preconditions of our system of state institutions, which means that parties must be involved and that the way in which it is completed is also there, I leave the judgment on the motion to your Chamber. In the motion in part No. 80 of Amhaouch c.s. The government is invited to "examine, in cooperation with SMEs-Netherlands, how one public digital register could be set up." Procurement is about activities that governments carry out for themselves. However, a register is a serious means of ensuring transparency in contracting entities. Their maintenance creates potentially a heavy burden. Similarly, the scope of such a register is not immediately clear; contracting can be about everything. But if I may explain the motion in such a way that I am going to investigate the scope of a registry and what possible alternatives might be, involving all other relevant stakeholders, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I'm coming to the Amhaouch c.s. motion. in piece No. 82, which calls on the government to encourage the acceleration of the use of digitalisation by large-scale SMEs. I agree with the need to speed up the application of digitalisation in small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what I reported. Quality research carried out by my ministry shows that the acceleration of knowledge transfer with regard to the application of digital technologies is the first step. In early 2018 I will start with a new programme of acceleration digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The activities mentioned in the motion are the starting point for this programme. The motion thus supports policy and therefore I leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 84 in which Mr Hijink and Mr Moorlag asked the Government to allow all possible scenarios within the postal dialogue to be discussed, including the possibility of nationalising mail delivery. Last week I pointed out in the AA that I am in favour of competition where it can and of cooperation where it should. The mail delivery back to the state I find absolutely a step back. I don't like it either. At the same time, I do not want to rule out all options in advance. All serious and well-managed solutions should be part of the discussion. Having said that, including the first, I shall nevertheless leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Paternotte c.s. on the tourist rental of housing and all activities in that area. It invites the government to involve the collection of tourist tax in the instruments currently under development and to inform the Chamber of the progress of discussions with the municipalities on these instruments in the first quarter of 2018. We have an absolute eye for the excesses of tourist housing rental. The cabinet, initially the Minister of the Interior, is currently discussing with municipalities what additional measures might be. She's talking to platforms. The tourist tax is included. Only if the route of arrangements with platforms does not provide sufficient comfort will the necessary legal instruments be considered. In a collaborative economy, one must always look at whether legislation is proportionate and enforceable and does not smother all developments in the bud. It is important that agreements and rules allow for this. In the first quarter of 2018, you will be informed by the Minister of the Interior about the preliminary results of the talks. If I can read the motion in such a way that involving the collection of tourist tax in the instruments does not in advance imply that a new legal regime is necessary but can also be part of agreements made by municipalities themselves, I can leave this motion to the discretion of the Chamber. I'll come to the motion in part No. 90, in which Mr Paternotte c.s. calls on the Government to identify and address obstructive laws and regulations regarding the application of 3D-printed products. The 3D technology is an important new technology. It is important to remove any bottlenecks and therefore to look closely at what we are talking about and how to deal with them. That is why I leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 96 was signed by Mr Moorlag and others. It calls on the government to include, within the climate agreement to be concluded, agreements on the timely training, retraining and recruitment of the necessary technicians and professionals. I can say that good and smart climate policy offers opportunities for economic growth. This requires flexibility and cooperation with industry in the development of educational curricula in MBO, in HBO and in universities. It also requires attention from employers for the development of knowledge and skills. In the coming months, in cooperation with relevant colleagues from the cabinet and in consultation with the social partners in education, I will examine how these issues can be taken into account in the development of the climate agreement. Of course I do not; my colleague does. He'll be the one drawing the climate agreement. I'll deal with the Tech Pact. In doing so, the cabinet is fully committed to increasing the range of technicians in the broad range. That happens through all kinds of different tracks. That is why I work together with colleagues from OCW and SZW and together with employers, employees and educational regions to develop a renewed and strengthened Technics Pact. I will inform the Chamber, as I have said before. This motion is in line with that. It supports the policy. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber. In the motion in part No. 99 by Mr Moorlag, Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Beckerman, the government is invited to develop policies and take measures to spread economic activities more and better to the south, east and north. I advise against this motion. It's based on a creatability I don't believe in. In addition, regional economic development is a core task of local authorities. The Empire has an intensive cooperation with the region to connect national and regional goals, also explicitly outside the Randstad. In the Bruins motion in part No. 100 the government is invited to inform the Chamber annually about the fundamental knowledge base of the Van Swinden Laboratory and the way in which the independence of the management of standards is ensured. The Van Swinden Laboratory is a private company that takes care of the measurement standards on behalf of the Ministry of EZK. In the past year, with the support of the Ministry, the VSL has taken important steps to maintain its central role in the fundamental knowledge base of metrology. Further concrete steps will therefore be taken in 2018 with the support of the Ministry. The VSL and I will ensure that the fundamental knowledge base of metrology is affected. I am prepared to inform the House of that. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Then I have the Bruins motion c.s. in piece No. 101. The motion calls on the government to make efforts to minimise tender costs in the case of tenders. Tendering costs may constitute, in particular, an obstacle for small and medium-sized enterprises to tender. The policy aims to minimise tender costs or to have them reimbursed by contracting authorities. It should be borne in mind, however, that contracting authorities, such as municipalities, ultimately make their own choices. As the motion for a resolution takes this into account by talking about 'an effort', I see the motion as a support for policy and leave it to the Chamber. Finally, I come to the Van Raan motion for a resolution on item No. 108. That motion calls on the government to make public subsidies and incentive funds conditional on a project contributing to sustainability. As a government, we already make a shift to sustainable purchasing and make stricter demands in purchasing goods and services. This motion goes one step further, namely that a project should always contribute to sustainability. I therefore advise against this motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u302	Mr. Chairman, briefly. My motion to part No. 60 I pulled over, but there's something I don't quite understand. I would like to make that clear, also for the Acts. I have made it clear that they are going to use and promote Dutch flags in foreign countries, but that this is not happening here in the Netherlands. So this is really about the Netherlands. I'd like to call that in anyway. I'll hold the motion, and I'll come back with another plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u303	Clear. Very good. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u304	Mr. Chairman. We have three chapters. A number of questions have been asked to me. I'll do it first. Then there are the amendments and then the motions. Mr Paternotte owes me an answer, because he noticed a discrepancy between my letter this morning and the coalition agreement. This was about the lots of wind at sea. Oh, the body language shows to me that it was Mr Jetten. Very good. This is right. Apologies. The letter talks about territories and the government agreement on lots. Now you're thinking, what are you talking about? Here's the deal. Lots are in areas. There are plenty of areas, but now it is important to identify lots in those areas. That's what the coalition agreement says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u305	I would like to thank the Minister for the clarification, but my follow-up question is whether, in the coming years, we will identify additional items within these areas, including the ambition to exceed the agreed amount of wind energy from that fine table in the coalition agreement. We also heard from the Minister tonight that we are now getting tenders for wind farms at sea without subsidies. I would say: get to work, throw as many lots on the market as possible and make sure we get so much wind at sea that we need less CO storage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u306	I've always said I'm willing to trade in a brilliant idea for an even better idea. If "more" turns out to be a better idea, it defeats the brilliant idea. I thought it was Mr Veldman, perhaps I am now wrong for the second time, who asked me what it would take to keep up the PPP payment. Mr. Veldman looks asking. Is there anyone who recognizes the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u307	Mr Paternotte recognizes the question. We're in the Lost Objects Department now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u308	After eight o'clock in the evening I'm really no good anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u309	It's been a long day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u310	So it was Mr Paternotte. Keeping the PPS payment at 25% costs 12 million in 2018 and 29 million in structural terms. If you increase the supplement, for example to 30%, it costs 4 million in 2018 and 22 million in structural terms. These are the reckonings. Then we can calculate the budget within 75 million or 150 million ourselves. Mr Bruins was concerned about the extent to which the TO2 institutions could use the occasional resources of twice 50 million. He's calling me to work on that. I like that very much. I'm gonna look him in the eye and tell him that we're both attached to that. I would like to say to him that I am going to talk to the Minister of OCW to put this to him. I hope to be able to reach an agreement with her in one way or another. That's what I'm gonna do. Mrs Mulder looked at me a little harshly and said that we should be more specific about industry, with the 8 and the 30 and more. Yeah, I totally agree with her, but I intend to come back to that in the first quarter and report on how far I have come and what that means. I will. Mrs Mulder has also asked if I am able to include Norg under the damage protocol Groningen. I think that we have exchanged a little bit about this that this cannot be done for legal reasons, but that we are just figuring out to what extent that should or could be levelled. Then the monkey for Norg comes out of the sleeve too. I'll let the Chamber know. These were the answers to the questions. There are also amendments. I've got five if it's okay, but here too I'm sometimes behind. It is all going very hard with the motions and the amendments. I have here the amendment to item No. 46 on the control of salt extraction. That's four tons. Structurally, we have recently committed 2.6 million a year. This is just a regular job. It's not considered necessary. I therefore reject this amendment. Let's see, the amendment to part No. 48, that's about Nijmegen. Do we still have that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u311	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u312	We still have that. I really shouldn't recommend that. I am also a little clinging to the sensible words that Mrs Mulder has said about this. She said, like everyone else, that it was sympathetic, but that we had to spend money on things that could be expected to have a climate effect. That's what I generally find in taxpayers' money. Just for fun isn't enough. I think that we are still running into Nijmegen in the motions and then I am going to try very hard for Mr Jetten. Then there is the amendment to item No. 50. That's about shutting down a power plant. What is happening here is some kind of implicit promise to a specific plant. I wouldn't do that anyway, because that seems to me to be very price-driven. Then there are fellow governments being looted and that is, to say the least, uncharming. I share the urgency, but everything here doesn't add up. It also uses cover which is strictly not included in this budget at all, so I must advise against this for technical reasons, but also for substantive and tactical reasons, and we naturally said in the coalition agreement that we are closing these things as quickly as possible. Then there is the amendment to item No. 55 on shipbuilding. The potty wrings. It just doesn't fit, but it doesn't fit. I don't think it's spotless. I could imagine: judge Chamber, but in that way I do not say that I am pulling it towards me, but that I expressly invite each of the political groups to think about it. You have some sort of "judge chamber" where we all think it's a good idea. And you have a sort of "judge chamber," as I'm giving you now, and I'm really curious about what the political groups think about this. Let them reflect on it. If we're going to do this, and it gets an increasingly structural character, let's evaluate it once to see what the effect is. This is an invitation to give your honest views on this matter. On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 56 I have been positive in the debate before. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but that is a "judge chamber" of the first kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u313	We also have an amendment on item No. 57.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u314	Oh, you have an amendment to part No. 57. Well, then you have more than I do. Then someone's got to turn that in, 'cause I don't have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u315	It's coming your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u316	Yeah, but I'll start with the motions. Shall we do it like this? On the motions on items Nos. I say in the direction of Mr Graus that paying taxes is always annoying, but abolishing a tax or a tax increase in a long-term budget is also annoying in that it is always accompanied by cover. Moreover, you have to do that with the proper budgetary treatment. Neither is the case here. I look Mr Graus in the eye. We're probably both uncomfortable paying taxes. That's what a lot of people in the country think. But in this way those taxes do not disappear, so I have to make these motions on items Nos. 58 and 59 both dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u317	Mr Graus, briefly, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u318	I expressly do not ask for abolition. That would be very childish, too. On the contrary, I would ask that we refrain from any planned increases in the level playing field. That's a whole different thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u319	Clear. See if the Minister thinks otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u320	He's been in the books for a long time, so you'll have to raise it somewhere else. The art is always to indicate where that is, because we can all reduce something, not raise it or abolish it, but the art is to find something else. Dissuade both of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u321	Mr. Wassenberg, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u322	Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that he had the amendment to item No. 57, but unless I have something very wrong, there is also an amendment to part No. 114.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u323	No, that is the coverage of the amendment to item No. 56, if we're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u324	The motion deficit was resolved, but we still need a pile of amendments. I'm going to the Graus motion on part No. 61. The protection measures for businesses are being extended so widely by Mr Graus that any company could actually benefit from protection measures. This is much wider than intended. I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u325	I'd like to know what's too wide. I am talking about companies of national interest and strategic importance. They are companies of national importance. I would like to mention a few points, but what would I have to get out of it so that the Minister could agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u326	The coalition agreement talks about 'vital'. But yes, what is "strategic', what is "financial', what is "economic'? Any big taxpayer can now go under this heading. That's really not the point. This is way out of line. If we're going to do this kind of thing, no shareholder is going to establish his company in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u327	All right, next move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u328	The motion in part No. So 61, I'd like to dissuade you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u329	"Vitaal" is much more blurry than what I call it, isn't it? I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u330	I'm just sticking to the coalition agreement here. It says "vital." I feel, certainly by Mr Graus, encouraged to speed up what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u331	Then I'm gonna change the motion and then I'm gonna make it "vital." If that's the way it's gonna be, I'll do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u332	Then we see an amended motion in part No. 61.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u333	Then there is the Graus motion on part No. 62. I have said before that this belongs to the Treasury. This is not appropriate now either. This motion I must advise against. In the motion-Veldman c.s. in piece No. 64 the Government is invited to provide clarity for the AA of 8 February. That seems to me to be a reasonable period of time. This has to be possible. This has to be judgment room. Then the motion-Veldman c.s. in piece No. 65. It calls for proposals to counter the trend decline. This is simply a real request from the Chamber for proposals, but I am going to try to get one thing back. There's no such thing as free. There's an endless amount of possibilities to cover this. Endless. I would like to have some hints from the proposers: where should this be removed? Otherwise, it's a prayer without end. That's what I'm asking for back. In that case, I think Judgement Room is a good thing. What tax should be raised? The VVD is now going to make proposals for tax increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u334	No, Mr. Chairman. We formulated this motion precisely because I would like to give the Minister every opportunity in the evaluation he is carrying out to look for ways to move away from the tedious system of t-1/t+1 by which we adjust percentages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u335	But a system change isn't cover. I like it so much that I get all the space, but I'm asking for guidance. There's a motion here, an expensive guy, to lower taxes. Let's just say it. I do not find it strange to ask the Chamber, the petitioners, what they are thinking about. I've just been tough on Mr. Graus, too. He didn't like that, but I'm just as hard on these proposers. Give me three suggestions that show what it's in, and I'll count it out with love. I leave the judgment to the Chamber, but I ask the petitioners to do so. Otherwise, it's a little too free.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u336	In any case, I wanted to make it clear that we all understand that, if we say that the solution must be found within the burden framework, this should be the burden framework for companies. The proposers may then have to look for solutions in there after the Minister has left the judgment to the Chamber. I would like to hear from the Minister that he too understands that this cannot mean the burden framework for citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u337	Let me put it this way: if I were to be given that space, I would certainly not be looking for it from the households, but from the companies. I would therefore look in the direction of the proposers to ask where this is to be obtained from the companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u338	But despite the absence of that cover...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u339	I don't know if it should be in the debate right now. It's Judgment Room. Mr Veldman will send me an e-mail with proposals shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u340	That's a strange advice, of course. If you say "judge chamber," then that implies that there is coverage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u341	One is not a condition for the other. I have given the motion 'judgement chamber', but I ask the proposers jointly for suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u342	I'll deal with the minister. I had called on the government in the motion to come up with ideas for Princess Day 2018 that we have just improved. I will hold the motion and we will make a number of suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u343	At the request of Mr Veldman, I propose his motion (34775-XIII, No. 65). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u344	I think that is fair, and I sincerely thank you for that. I like butter with the fish and think about things myself. Then the motion to part No. 68 on the digital platform. That's a nice idea. I would like to leave this motion to the judgement of the Chamber, but I also have a small package leaflet: I ask the authors to ensure that we do not turn this into a complex, suffocating, new consultation structure with an expanding government, but that I am allowed to do so as much as possible within the existing platforms. Otherwise, a government that is redesigning a new platform will drive industry crazy. So if I may raise it within the existing platforms, it seems particularly useful to me. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. Then the motion to part No. 69 on the cost of climate policy. The main producer is Mr Van der Lee. He asked me a question, too. I did not deal with them in the course of the questions, but I would like to do so in the course of the debate on this motion. He asked me what I think of maximum justice per measure. Well, here's the thing. Maximum justice is not only the primacy, but also the task of politics, but that is not the case for each measure, because if we have to come up with a separate income policy measure for each measure that costs us, we are going to get lost. This is precisely why we make the purchasing power figures as a whole every year and debate them with the Chamber. So I think maximum justice is great, but it is not a sustainable system per measure. I'd say it's just the annual cycle. This is done very well, more solidly than the Ministry of EZK could do on its own. That's what we have to base it on. I should therefore like to advise against the motion, which, moreover, confirms to Mr Van der Lee that income effects should simply be taken into consideration. I have already said that the transition is going to be expensive and we need to maintain our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u345	Mr. Van der Lee, one question, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u346	Then I have one question about that. The motto of the Minister is "maximum cost-effectiveness per euro." I mean "maximum justice per measure" that you do your best to make it as fair as possible. This does not mean that it is fair in its completeness, because of course you also see it in connection with other measures, but it is about the approach: try to make it as honest as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u347	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u348	You can't object to that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u349	I have no objection to honesty, but I do object if we go into income policy for each individual cost item. That's really not how we do it; that's not how it goes. I am all ears when Mr Van der Lee has ideas about purchasing power cards, but we do not do so by measure. No way. There are also no separate measures for food. That also costs something, there are also distribution issues. There's no getting started. It's nice, but it really doesn't work that way. By the way, we share the underlying objective, which we must pay attention to. Then the motion to part No. 70, on the conclusion of an agreement with pension funds. Well, no, that's too much for me, isn't it? Yes, I would like to sit down with pension funds and financiers, but an agreement with pension funds is a kind of long-term contract within their investment policy. I can't really get into that. I would like pension funds to make use of attractive investment opportunities in the Netherlands in one way or another, but the wording of the motion cannot be used in relation to pension funds. We're really gonna get trouble with that in the polder, and I get that, too. I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u350	Mr. Van der Lee, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u351	If I replaced "to conclude an agreement" with "to enter into consultation with"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u352	Okay. Yes. Because that's what we're gonna do: consult. The final text needs to be checked. Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u353	We shall then receive an amended motion from Mr Van der Lee in respect of item No. 70.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u354	Then I feel all the more motivated to consult pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u355	And then the Secretary of State gives Chamber judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u356	Judgement Room, yes. The same applies to the motion on item No. 71 by Mr Van der Lee. On that motion, too, I shall leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion to part No. 72. No, I certainly don't. We have written down quite different things about this in the coalition agreement. There's a reason for that, too. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 73. Pooh, Pooh, Pooh, Pooh! Yes, I'm quite willing to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber, but there are still two warnings. Firstly, the specialists who have studied this do not think there is enough room for at least 10 gigawatts. Secondly, this motion breathes that it can all be done very quickly. Now there's no time limit, but she thinks lightly about time. That's both wrong. Those things don't add up. However, the fact that eventually locations can be identified is, in principle, correct. For that reason, I would like to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. But because it still requires study, it remains a bit of an effort. Yeah, it's kind of crazier what I'm doing right now, but I see the point and I'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. But I have made these unbinding comments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u357	Mr. Van der Lee, it's judgment room, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u358	Yes, but I'm also willing to delete the observation so that we don't get a disagreement about how much gigawatt it can really be. So I will change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u359	And then it might be a wiser choice of words to turn "fast wind farms" into "as soon as possible."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u360	We have received an amended motion on item No. 73.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u361	Then the motion to part No. 74. This is also a sympathetic idea, but it does not quite make sense. This isn't a good thing to do. Look, in the Netherlands, different gas networks are mixed up. Then you can switch a particular type of user. Yeah, by the way, sometimes you still have to lay 20 miles of lead for that. But in Germany, that's different. In Germany there are regional networks. You don't do it by type of user but by region. This prioritisation is impossible in our neighbouring country. So for that reason, I really have to dissuade the motion. Then the motion to part No. 75. Let's go! Yes, no. 75 Judgment Room. In the motion in part No. 76 is referred to as low a rate as possible. That is currently legally impossible, because the law obliges us to apply cost-covering tariffs. Now you can say: as low as possible, that's always possible. I think it gives everyone an uncomfortable feeling that if someone voluntarily goes off the gas, that person has to pay for it. And this doesn't even say anything in the motion on part No. 111 states. It says nothing has to be paid. This motion says "as low as possible." That's very nuanced. I admire that. I have to tell Mrs van Tongeren that I am going to dive into that file again and see why it should be this amount and whether it could not be otherwise. It's uncomfortable with everyone, I think. That's purely a commitment to look at something. In any case, this way, the motion cannot be legal. I therefore advise against the motion. Also at the Van Tongeren motion in part No. 77 struggles somewhat. "Enough power at the NAM" makes sense. There is no reason to doubt that now, because the cash flow alone allows much greater compensation than there is capital in it. The motion calls for sufficient power. If there had been 'payment capacity', I could have left the judgment on the motion to the House. Maybe the author can say two more sensible words about this. I see she nods yes. If the motion is changed, I will leave it to the Chamber to decide. It is therefore the word 'payment capacity'. I think it's useful to have the motion-Agnes Mulder c.s. in piece No. 78 to the AO Energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u362	That is a question for Mrs Mulder. She is the author of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u363	Yes, that's the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u364	Or the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u365	Will the Minister send a letter to the Chamber for the Energy AO stating how he intends to implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u366	Yeah, or there's no point in holding on. Let me see if that's feasible. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u367	It is therefore a matter of the motion in part No. 78.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u368	I'll hold the motion and I'll wait for the letter. Depending on what it says, I shall then put the motion to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u369	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u370	At the request of Mrs Agnes Mulder, I propose her motion (34775-XIII, No. 78). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u371	The judgment on the Amhaouch/Van der Lee motion on item No. 81 I leave to the Chamber. I come to the Heink/Van der Lee motion on part No. 83. What does this say? Mr Hijink says that companies with an existing protection structure can call in time for reflection. That's always possible, only now there's an anti-cumulative clause, so if your protection structure is 300 days, you can call in time to think about it, but that doesn't make any sense. I suspect that Mr Hijink does not mean that and that he thinks that is a faint interpretation. I think he means to remove the anti-cumulative clause. I look at him and he looks at me secretly. This doesn't help me much. But because I do not know much about it and because he may be entirely in line with his argument, other than what it says technically, I would like to advise against the motion. If Mr Hijink merely means that someone can invoke a period of reflection, which has no effect because he has a protection structure, then I leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. But that's a lame interpretation of me. Anyone can call in something. You just don't get it if you have a protection structure. But I don't think that's what he means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u372	I think you can read the motion in such a way that it says that when drafting the bill, the possibility should remain open that companies that already have a protection structure should not be excluded from that new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u373	Mr Hijink says 'not to be excluded', but it is important that someone on top of that gets the whole period of reflection. You have a protection structure that lasts 100 and then you get 250 days after that. It's cumulative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u374	It can also be other forms of protection, such as certification, preferential shares; it can be anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u375	Sure. But that accumulation... Then I'll advise against the motion. Well, at least we've understood each other correctly, but I'll advise against the motion. In the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 85 is asked to "dedicate to the rapid phasing-out of this state aid." That is what we discussed in the debate. I don't recommend that motion. I'm coming up on the Beckerman c.s. motion. in piece No. 86. Then I'm stuck again. I would just like to state that any profit from the Centre Safe Living is not to blame for the Centre Safe Living. It was perfectly legitimate, according to all contracts. It was legal. There was nothing immoral about it. However, I did say in the debate that I am aiming for a situation where this does not happen in this way anymore. With that explanation, I would like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. But it doesn't blame the Center for Safe Living. I don't want that thought to come into being here either. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 87, "to bring it down as soon as possible," I leave it to the House to decide. The Beckerman/Moorlag motion in part No. 88 is about setting up a public organisation to make the rental sector more sustainable. This is very much ahead of schedule in a way of resolving it. We still have to agree on this in the climate agreement. Maybe this isn't coming out at all. I really want to give the climate agreement a chance to say something sensible about this. I advise against this motion. I have no indication that this solution is exactly the right one. The Paternotte c.s. motion. in piece No. 91 is a clear call. As far as I am concerned, Chamber, with the advice to think carefully, but I see a lot of names underneath. Judge Room Type 2 then. I'd like to know what the Chamber thinks about this. Think about it very carefully. I'm very sympathetic about it, but... Then the motion Paternotte c.s. in piece No. 92. SBIR and serious gaming; I think that's good to do. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then there is the motion by Mr Jetten/Agnes Mulder on part No. 93 on a plan of approach et cetera. This should ideally also be the outcome of the climate agreement, so I leave the opinion on the motion to the House. The Jetten c.s. motion. in piece No. 94 is about the participation of EBN. If participation does not necessarily mean a significant financial participation, but in one way or another can simply be a participation of any kind, I leave the judgment on the motion, with that explanation, to the Chamber. Then I'm going to join the Jetten c.s. motion. About the Green Capital. Thank you for the cautious reasoning, which is in line with both the enthusiasm in this Chamber for Nijmegen and Green Capital and with Mrs Mulder's speech. I can certainly live with this reasoning. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u376	Mrs. Mulder, one second.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u377	It's still about the previous motion. So not about Nijmegen, but about the EBN. Of course it's about geothermal and EBN. We want to be able to participate and participate there, but in the end that space should also be made financially available. The previous Minister has already examined the opportunity to do so. Can the Minister now promise that in the first quarter of the coming year he will also consider the possible financial participation of EBN in geothermal projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u378	If I'm going to do that, is it logical to hold this motion for a moment? Then I can see what the word "participate" should mean, financially or otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u379	I would not want to stop the whole development with geothermal energy, so anything they can participate with, say in terms of thinking power and everything, is already welcome. But as far as we are concerned, it should go a step further, including with financial participation. We would like an answer to that in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u380	I see the request, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u381	Thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u382	Yes. I remain somewhat confused about the Moorlag motion c.s. in piece No. 97. That was already confused in the debate. There should be compensation for all material and intangible damage caused by tremors resulting from gas extraction. The motion mentions everything that has to do with gas extraction, which could possibly lead to an adverse position. It could be horizontal pollution or trucks driving to the NAM. This is so wide, I can't stand it. There is a right to compensation, material and intangible, in an appropriate manner. But "any downside"... What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u383	What are we talking about? Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u384	You're talking, for example, about the depreciation of houses. In the meantime, the judge has ruled on that. A home is the most valuable property for a lot of people. I believe that homeowners should not be put at a disadvantage because their homes have suffered and become less valuable in a gas extraction area. A second example is access to insurance. It is well known that citizens do not have access to certain types of insurance. This is a disadvantage that is directly attributable to gas extraction. It is not direct damage in the sense that there is a tear or something like that, but it is a disadvantage. I also think this is simply a question of civilisation. I am not saying in the motion that any disadvantage should be removed or compensated, but I am saying that this is a moral view that you should take as a guiding principle. As a guiding principle! I do not ask for guarantees, I do not ask for guarantees, but if there is a complex task, you often have to apply very simple principles, and that is what I ask the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u385	It doesn't say "any downside" but "any downside." It is very complex matter, on which a whole legal practice is based. It also has to do with how other Dutch people can base their rights on it. We are in the middle of an extraordinary process and I said what I said about Groningers' right to compensation and about the conditions under which that happens. We are still working that out, and I am not going to go through that with this motion, which contains things that Mr Moorlag does not mean exactly. But it's there! I really can't do this. I'm gonna think about it and I'm gonna get back to you. Then Mr Moorlag is free to count on the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u386	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u387	I can tell that our moral judgments are close together. Allow me to look in the coming days at a wording which is acceptable to the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u388	Look, the motion is now so spacious that we're pretty far away from a motion that I can do something with. Of course, Mr Moorlag is always free to come up with further wordings. Perhaps then I will ask him to hold such a motion, because I do not really think it is useful to frame a search in one way or another with very precise things in advance. There is also another side, because I am not the only negotiating and negotiating partner. There is also a region. To decide unilaterally for a region that they have this or that right is going to go far, because perhaps there is another need. I'm not alone. I'm doing this with a region. I am almost certain that Mr Moorlag speaks with all his heart on behalf of that region, but because he is not the other party, I do not want to commit to things that I am talking about right now. I don't think this is wise right now. I am in favour of more pointy wordings, but then too, I think I will ask him to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u389	But for now...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u390	I don't think it's wise right now and for now it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u391	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u392	...disadvised. Moreover, I cannot deny that we are morally closer to each other than seems to be in the debate, but I am in a rather precarious process and that requires precision. It's about big things, and from this chair, I can't judge all the details. The motion in part No. 98. It calls on the government to reduce gas extraction more quickly and further. Yes, as an effort, of course, it's very nice. I would really like to ask Mr Moorlag here to hold the motion. Then we see what the possibilities are. But just say "faster and further": if we can't do that, then we've put ourselves completely on hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u393	That is a question for Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u394	The request to Mr Moorlag is to hold the motion, otherwise I must advise her against it. Because I am making an extreme effort to make this happen. I just don't know if that's gonna work, and I can't guarantee that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u395	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u396	I'd like to arrest her, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u397	At the request of Mr Moorlag, I propose his motion (34775-XIII, No. 98). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u398	In any case, Mr Moorlag has written down my wish very heartily, but I dare not give him any guarantee. Thank you for stopping, I say in the direction of Mr Moorlag. I'll come to the motion in part No. 102 on a revolver fund. Why don't we see what's coming out? A revolving fund to access finance in the development phase... I shall begin with the climate agreement. I'm really going to discourage this motion at this stage. Then the motion to part No. 103 on Blue Energy. Calls on the government to actively contribute to the implementation of the pilot project. That "active contribution to"... let me say that I cannot make a single decision on the use of financial instruments. We never deal with that in a sneaky way. That goes with harsh criteria, which are considered independently and businesslike with a substantive review. That's what our country is known for, and I want to keep it that way. If we're gonna negotiate deals with each other for entrepreneurs we've become excited about... That is understandable and putting energy into it is commendable, but it does not work that way. Otherwise active contributions, I can imagine, but what exactly does the author mean? It's got a financial hunch I'd like to avoid. I'm not here to award subsidies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u399	It says here "calls on the government to actively contribute to the implementation of the pilot project Blue Energy." I think it is very important that there is simply an involvement of the Empire, because there is also a governance agreement and because this project has been designated as a National Icon. It is a wonderful export product and I do not want to lift this project as the only project on the shield now, but I do see real opportunities for our exports, the knowledge that is being gained, the pilot that is now running. It's a National Icoon, so I'm looking at the Minister with a keen eye and hope he sees a way for the Empire to support this in a positive way, in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u400	Mr President, I am going to do it in such a way that we do not favour this project in the case of state schemes, we really should not do so, but that it deserves the attention of the Empire in its capacity as a National Icon. In this capacity, it receives support from the government in the realisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u401	And it's stripped of its financial edge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u402	Yeah, it's stripped of its financial edge. I must be very strict about that. We cannot push specific companies in the Chamber towards subsidies. We really shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u403	Clear. Then that motion is judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u404	Judge Room with this explanation, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u405	Mrs. Mulder just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u406	That's about the motion in part No. 102 on energy cooperatives. In itself, the Minister in his written reply to the CDA Group was already positive about this. This was actually already agreed in the previous energy agreement, but it has not yet been implemented. Now the Minister wants to move it back to the next energy climate agreement. I would appreciate it very much if this minister could take a look at what he could do for it, in which direction he is thinking, and also report on it in the first quarter. He has a few months left to take a good look at that, without the weather shifting all the way to a subsequent energy agreement, because the problem is still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u407	But what does Mrs Mulder do with the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u408	Well, then I'll take that motion, if you're gonna make real progress on that in the first quarter. If we don't, we're just gonna come back. That's how you know us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u409	And she looks so threatening. That's a good deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u410	One second. It's about the motion in part No. 102 and the first of these is Mrs Dik-Faber. So if it is to be stopped, I would like to hear it from Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u411	This did happen really fast, didn't it? I can well imagine that the Minister is looking at this and that we will have a feedback on this in a few months' time. But I can agree with what Mrs Mulder said. This has just been agreed on before and it has been going on for so long. Let's just do that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u412	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (34775-XIII, No. 102). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u413	I'd like to return to the motion on part number one. 103. I think a lot of us got e-mails about Blue Energy. It's a wonderful project. I hope it succeeds and I hope it can be rolled out on a large scale. In addition, fortunately, I have received a lot of emails. Innovation lives, entrepreneurs are working on it. Great. I hear the Minister's lecture. He says the financial hunch has to go away. Still, I wonder how I'm supposed to understand, how we're gonna get on with it. Because that still means that this project gets extra attention from the Ministry. Officials don't work for free either. That's money, too. And again, there are still a lot of innovative ideas. That is why I shall conclude, Mr President, with our motion for a resolution. Then make sure that these innovative ideas can just go to the Ministry, to people with expertise, so that the right balance can be made and that they can help with obstacles. I am very reluctant to put forward a particular project and I would also like to know exactly that it will mean once the financial impact is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u414	Then I said that we are not going to advance this project with respect to other or competing projects in one way or another, certainly not financially, but that I support it in his capacity as an icon in that we have also assumed some kind of responsibility, with the display of Dutch craftsmanship. But in that capacity. That's what we've gotten ourselves into by making this an icon. It is a beautiful project and in that sense it deserves the attention, as an icon. That's what I made it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u415	Then the motion to part No. 104.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u416	The motion in part No. 104. I don't understand any of this. I need Mr Van Raan to tell me what's here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u417	I have some bad news. He's gone home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u418	He's gone home. But I don't know what exactly it says here. I'm sure he'll hang on to me sometime. This is what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u419	Mr Van Raan is no longer here, but perhaps I can say something about it. What the operative part is about is that the climate effects outside the Netherlands are also looked at. We're talking about deforestation in South America. It has great effects on the climate. For example, when it comes to changing behaviour, one should think of a change in the diet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u420	Then you mean behavioral influence. Or not. No, I don't recommend this one. Even after the explanation. The same applies to the motion in part No. 105. On the motion in part No. 106 is not going to be the debate today. That's LNV. I really ask that that be the case with the govern ment in question. If it's submitted to me, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. The same logic applies to the motion in part No. 107. That's I&W. The motion in part No. 110 I advise against for substantive reasons. On the motion in part No. 111 we've had it before. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The motion in part No. 911 is a very wonderful one. It's going to be at the same rate in seven years. No, this is against the coalition agreement. I think I understand the portee of it, the idea of the payback period of seven years then we maintain and then it stops. But in this form, I advise against that motion. It goes against the coalition agreement, but I get the point. Mr President, I am through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u421	Yes. The only motion that has not been commented on is that in part No. 109. But I say again: there is a request to the Presidium. This is about Mr Van Raan's parliamentary investigation, which has now gone. That's up to the Chamber. Finally, Mr Jetten would like to say a few words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u422	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome the broad support in the Chamber and the positive advice of the cabinet on the motion to enter into a partnership with Green Capital. That is why I shall be voting in favour of this amendment. Fifty-eight withdraw.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u423	Mr Jetten's amendment (Doc. 48) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u424	That's definitely LNV. Yes. And I don't want to whisper to the Minister of LNV again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u425	No, we shouldn't do all that, especially at a quarter to two in the morning. So much for this debate. Does the Minister wish to give us another word in the form of a formal statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u426	My foundative words at a quarter to two at night are limited. But at least I see a great ambition here. We're gonna work on it in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u427	Look, we just wanted to hear something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-14-tweedekamer-7.u428	So much for this debate. Thanks to the participants, thanks to the Secretary of State and the Minister. We will be voting on all the budgets next Thursday, including the amendments. We'll vote on the motions on Tuesday.
