ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u1	I welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. I imagine people are wondering, why did they ask for this debate? What's the problem here? As a scientist, I have great faith in science. I believe that science can play a very important, if not crucial, role in the energy transition and response to climate change. We need scientific breakthroughs. But as a scientist and Groningen, I'm also very worried. Many Groningers have lost confidence in Shell, but not in the university. Science is reliable. But what about when Shell and science mix? Does that help science? Does it bring solutions to energy and climate issues closer? Or could science get colored by it? Could it damage the trust? There are now a number of examples that we are very concerned about. A sponsored professor with the Chair of Energy and Sustainability, who calls it his main task to give the gas industry a better position in the world. A professor who tells in a room full of Groningers that killings from earthquakes are completely unrealistic, but did not investigate them. There is no dissertation of this professor; he does not have a doctor's degree. But he did work for Shell for decades. Or, for example, take research that has been paid by Shell, but where this financial contribution is not mentioned anywhere. This research is being used in a lobby that leads to a 500 million tax reduction for large companies. Shell has a direct influence on university education. Fake science: science in which the conclusions are suspiciously similar to advertising for the client. In the previous gas debate, we asked Minister Kamp why there were two research programmes, while the OVV advised to start one programme. He said, and I quote literally: "In a situation where there is mistrust, you should not allow the independence in the eyes of the Groningen people to be influenced by a large funding of Shell, so we have a government-funded independent knowledge program." Right now, we need to be able to trust science. Does the Minister agree with me? And does the Minister agree with me that scientific integrity is at stake if links with Shell and the fossil industry are too close? Following the research of Changerism, which focused on one faculty, will the Minister repeat the research for all Dutch universities? Does it want to map the links of all these universities with the fossil industry and propose ways of cutting these ties or making them less intimate? After 57 years of gas extraction and 100,000 people with damage to their homes, the major research programme on gas extraction is only now starting, while the research into how Shell can get a tax advantage is long overdue. In my group's view, then, the priorities are not good. Not short-term research in collaboration with companies, but long-term, fundamental and independent research led to most scientific breakthroughs in the past. Current public funding puts an emphasis on short-term research in cooperation, for example in top sectors policy. In July, the Ministry of Economic Affairs concluded that the billions for top sectors produce hardly any groundbreaking innovations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u3	I hear Mrs Beckerman in favour of going to all Dutch universities and faculties to see if the same thing is happening there as in Rotterdam. My question to Mrs Beckerman is: are there any concrete indications that things have happened at any other university or faculty on the same scale as described in Changerism's report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u4	I worked at a university until February. We think that transparency is all well and good. But it was precisely that study of Changerism that showed that there was an investigation where there was no mention that Shell had made a financial contribution. I have just quoted that example. That's what scared me the most in Changerism's report. That research, which was co-financed by Shell, mentioned as an important idea to give Shell a tax discount. That study was then used as a lobbying tool and that tax rebate actually came about. So then you have research paid for by Shell, colored research, which then has major consequences, with tax relief. Do I have any indication that this also plays on such a large scale in other universities? I don't think we should let that go. I think that this investigation actually shows that there are problems. We have seen this before and we have already seen several examples of this, as Investico in De Groene Amsterdammer shows. I think that now that we need science so badly in the fight against climate change and in the transition to renewable energy, but also now that science is under pressure and people say that "science is just an opinion," now is the time to look closely at whether this is happening in other universities. If so, we need to see what we can do about it. 'Cause I think it's a really bad idea if we betrayed trust in science.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr Paternotte asked Mrs Beckerman if she had any indication that it was going on in many more places. She didn't answer that. She says we shouldn't let it go, but she doesn't have any indications, so I conclude. Doesn't she think she's gonna shoot a hail if we don't even know exactly what's going on at Erasmus University? We share the concern that it may have been too intimate, but this is being investigated now. Isn't it much smarter to just wait and see?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u6	I know a number of examples at other universities. I just mentioned one. The Green Amsterdammer and Investico have mentioned a number of examples. At the University of Groningen, for example, there is sponsored research. A professor with a chair on energy and sustainability mainly sees it as his mission to give the gas industry a better position in the world. In that research of De Groene Amsterdammer and Investico there are more examples. I know more than one. I very much welcome the investigation. I think it is very good that Erasmus University is now looking into itself to see what is going on. At the same time, I think it would be very useful for the Minister, who has a role in funding, to think carefully in parallel with this research about what is going on and how we can prevent it, precisely because science is too important to betray confidence in it. So there are indeed examples at other universities. Whether it happens on the same scale, I don't know. I hope not, but I think it's smart not to let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u7	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answer. Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u8	It can be short, too. I think it's smart not to let it go. You're asking for very expensive research. I have the feeling that the research that has already been deported and the science is really well guarded by this minister. Why don't we wait and see what you're doing, because you're pleading for SP for an issue of... how much does such an investigation cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u9	Twelve years ago, in 2005, the Academy, the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences, carried out a research called Science on demand. It is precisely because of the way the research is now funded that they found that science is growing on demand. They also made a number of proposals for this and drew very clear conclusions. You could imagine doing something like that again. That's what I'm gonna ask the Minister. So it's been done before on a rather large scale. Then it was looked at for all universities and all sciences. Now that could focus on this example of the fossil industry, not only because colored science is bad for science but also because we have to ask the right questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u10	I understand all that, but we're already in the middle of an investigation. That costs tons, all of which are expensive educational euros. And now I hear the SP argue for indeed that shot hail and to spend much more money and to have much more research done on the basis of, as far as I am concerned, vague suspicions. I'd like to call on the SP to wait for this. Don't walk out in front of the troops; just wait and see what this minister will do and what the investigation will do. Then we'll talk and it'll be a really interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u11	Short response, Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u12	Science is worth something to us, and so is trust in science. I call it coloured research now, but what I would also like to highlight is whether we are asking the right questions as a science. We can see that in recent years, the Ministry has also pointed this out, especially with regard to short-term research and cooperation, for example through the top sectors. Half of the second money flow went to the top sectors. It was concluded in July that I will literally say that the groundbreaking innovations are lagging behind. That is not the conclusion of the SP, but of the Ministry of EZ. So that means that we have to invest meaningfully in science. My group believes that it is wise to do this in fundamental, long-term, independent research. Sometimes it is good to make a step in the right direction to ensure that neither confidence in science gets embarrassed, nor to bring that groundbreaking innovation, which we really need, closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. I really want to monitor briefly now. Every answer is now being given with a huge speech. If the question is short, the answer must also be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u14	My input will be much shorter and I'm sure I won't get any interruptions either. I'm not worried about that. It is not just about scientific research, of course, because people are also internships at companies. I'd like to present a case. A company joined a leadership program for teachers. 25 teachers followed a one-day master class. The masterclass inspired two teachers in such a way that they then completed nine months of internship at the company. Are you saying you can't?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u15	It is difficult to give a brief answer to this. What is often misunderstood and what I think is very important is that if you say "businesses cannot color science," you would be against any collaboration with companies or against internships. That is not the case. You have been with us for a long time and you may have heard my colleagues making flaming speeches, in which they said: make sure you cut the direct links when it comes to research; it is fine if, for example, Shell has a question, but then pour the money into a fund and cut the direct links. Does that mean that scientists of the future are not allowed to do more internships in companies? Of course not. It's all about getting science colored so we can really get fake science. And furthermore, that's my big problem, the focus in today's science is too much on short-term research, along with companies, where EZ concludes that the groundbreaking innovations remain behind. If we shift focus and don't let science color with companies like Shell, we might get bigger breakthroughs. Does that mean we're never allowed to look at a company again? You're never allowed to do an internship again? Can't a company formulate a good question? None of that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u16	Now I hear a snipe. Apparently more can be done. It's getting a little greyer now and we're still keeping some connections. I now hear that an investigation may be requested, but that it should be financed without a direct link. But I also see all kinds of studies coming along from Milieudefensie or Greenpeace. Is that the same thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yeah, I'd say that's a good line. Agnes Kant has very often argued in favour of medical research here. It was found that studies of the metadata studies conducted directly sponsored were much more likely to be positive about the drug to which the study was addressed, than studies that were not sponsored. That is why we say: if you offer it in a fund you can still do the same research, but there is no direct connection and so you have much less chance of it becoming a really colored research.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. The fossil industry must stay out of education with its tentacles. Education must be independent, especially since the fossil industry has no future. I'm gonna tell the VVD this, too. However, the same fossil industry is also pimply rich and is increasingly able to influence Dutch universities and secondary schools and even primary education. The most absurd example is Shell. Shell receives €100,000 from the municipality of The Hague to organise the Generation Discover Festival. Moreover, the fossil industry does not hesitate to take a walk with reality. For example, ExxonMobil and Shell deliberately misled the public about the scientific knowledge of climate change. That is why it is very undesirable to give these same fossil multinationals a great deal of work to assert their power in the school banks. This reminds us very much of the way the tobacco industry could have maintained for years that a cigarette could be healthy. When it comes to companies like Shell, we train the young people of today for a job in the future in the industry of the past. Education has a great responsibility to remain independent. The fact that the revenues of universities, for example, do not seem to coincide with the increasing number of students is not good news for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u20	I would like to ask the honourable Member whether he is not being terribly overreacting. We're talking about the integrity of science here. You're playing some kind of thought police and you're making huge judgments about Shell and Esso. They're major players in the economy. Who do you really think you are, that you can serve these kinds of organizations this way? I think this is really too crazy for words. I'll give you that climate science is also a science. There are indeed sounds that make you think that the opposite is claimed of your almost religious argument about the climate. A little modesty is in order here, isn't it? All those students who get wonderful opportunities to study and grow at Shell, what do you want with that? Would you send them all into the swamp of wind power? I'll give you that there's more to the world than your bubble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thanks for the question. The question of whether I exaggerate, I think I'm actually misplaced, but I'll try to answer that question. I don't think I'm overreacting. I also think there are enough publications that show that I'm not exaggerating. Modesty is always a good trait; I agree with you. I will continue my speech. I told you, it's not good news that universities' revenues are lagging behind the increasing numbers of students. Also not good news is that the didactic material is demonstrably reinforced by unclear senders. We do not think that is a good thing. To conclude, it is important to provide schools and universities with sufficient financial resources to resist the temptations of the fossil industry. One of the ways in which that can be done is to make this clear at least with very sharp testing tools for third-party money flows, because these review instruments are not available at the moment. A second way is to focus heavily on transparency in clarifying the sender of didactic material. I don't think anyone can argue with that. A third way is to establish strict independence requirements for special chairs, because such requirements do not appear to exist at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. An oil giant should not be able to decide on the curriculum of an education. An oil giant should not be able to profile which students are or are not admitted to a training course. Nor should an oil giant university research be colored in advance. I hope that the Minister and my colleagues in the Chamber will agree with me. The fact that the Rotterdam School of Management has concluded agreements with the fossil industry, which made that kind of thing possible, is very worrying. It is therefore a good thing that the RSM has announced an investigation into these facts, but it is the task of the House of Representatives to find out as soon as possible whether the problem is greater than this one case, because unfortunately the signals point to that. In his article for De Correspondent, Jelmer Mommers mentions a number of other examples, even in primary schools. My colleague, Mr Beckerman, has also mentioned a number of examples. In my view, the fundamental question in this debate is whether it is allowed at all that a commercial company can make demands at universities and colleges of applied sciences. What are the laws and regulations on this? I would ask the Minister to clarify this matter to the Chamber. Following on from what my colleague Mr Beckerman asked, I would also ask the Minister if she would like to take stock of how often colleges and universities have entered into cooperation with the fossil industry. There is nothing wrong with that in itself, but transparency is important. In this inventory, will the Minister immediately show which educational institutions have become dependent on this industry as a result of this cooperation through contracts such as the RSM or otherwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u23	I come from secondary vocational education myself. It's been a while since I worked there. I also had a lot of links with higher education. Now, seven years later, the discourse is still going on that vocational education and training would be too intertwined with the professional field and the business world; I also look at the minister. At the time when I was working there, and even now, there were all kinds of people, managers and directors working to tighten those ties. Why? Because industry wants workers with good skills. That's what HBO and MBO are responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u24	We're a little distracted by Mr. Wilders. Welcome. Please continue, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u25	Welcome, chef. What is the difference in principle between MBO and HBO and higher education and university education? So it's different all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u26	I try to understand Mr Beertema's question. He himself said he was in the MBO a long time ago. I do not want to do age discrimination, but I suspect that Mr Beertema is not very good at listening. I just indicated that cooperation between business and education is very good, but I do want to know how often it happens. Transparency is important. On the contrary, we welcome cooperation. As MBO spokesperson, I am working to strengthen cooperation between business and education. The question is, and I shall slowly repeat it for Mr Bertema to what extent cooperation leads to dependence. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u27	Apparently, you have some clues, I'm just saying as a slow age comprehensionist; thank you for all the compliments. Well, you might as well live up to that here as a young, fast man.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u28	I am very sorry, but once again Mr Beertema has not listened very carefully. I'm not saying it's true, but there are indications and we have to find out if it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u29	That's what happens in this investigation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u30	That's just about the RSM. It is also about the rest of the Netherlands. I've already said that, but I'm going to repeat it. I'd be happy to do that for you; no problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u31	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u32	On top of that, I ask whether the relationship between the first and third money flows has not been so far lost that it also contributes to the government's failure to respect academic integrity. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is a fundamental issue. As long as we do not yet have a complete inventory, it is the government's duty to send a signal at least. My final question is therefore whether the Minister is prepared to take the initiative at least now to establish a code of conduct for cooperation between educational institutions and the fossil sector. Finally. My group considers cooperation between business on the one hand and universities, colleges and MBO on the other very important. This makes it easier for graduates to move to a job and stimulate research and development, research and development departments of our own economy. But cooperation must be cooperation and must never lead to a relationship of power. If commercial parties are given the power to determine the content of lessons, refuse students and even colour research in advance towards commercial interests, then the foundation of free education and free science disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u33	Mr. Chairman. I haven't been a Member of Parliament for very long, but I do know that politics requires a sense of timing. As far as we're concerned, we're pretty wrong about timing here. There's a disturbing report from Changerism. Follow the Money wrote about it. From what we read in there, we're all not gonna be happy. Everyone here says business must work with science, but there are limits. According to the CDA, these boundaries are very clear and universities have made agreements on this. However, we must wait and see what the research that Erasmus University is now doing itself is going to yield. Science is also that you're going to get to the bottom of something like this. A sense of political timing would therefore mean that you are not going to start a debate with all kinds of bells and bells, but that you are simply getting the patience together so that the scientists, on whom we all rely, can get to the bottom of this. The Minister sent a letter to the Chamber in which she lays down the entire arsenal she has as minister for us. If the investigation puts on the table disturbing facts, it can intervene hard. That's what we want. We must also wait for the research to be carried out. In my opinion, we have all said good things: science is important and business is important, but it must not dictate what is going on in training or research. I fully agree with that, but let us not make an incident policy here. Education always gets nauseous that, if it goes wrong in one place, we think that we should investigate it in all places so that very educating Netherlands has to get into the legs because a mistake is made in one place. If we are to learn something now, that is just to wait and see. If it's as serious as it looks and we don't want it to be, then we're back here. Then we invite the Minister again and at least we are going to intervene in something that cannot be done. Trying to run for the troops, however, will not help here. In any case, I would like to hear from the Minister how she deals with her suggestion to Erasmus University to share the guides that the university makes and writes down who pays for what research and where someone is working. Does the Minister have any idea whether Erasmus University is already doing this enthusiastically or could it help? I can imagine that the universities could do something in this way to prevent problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr Van der Molen is right to say that we should not conduct incident policy. In my view, it is quite right for us to say that we are restricting ourselves to the RSM incident. Mr. Chairman. I will follow your advice and not talk for too long, but there are signs, and we have all mentioned them, and I would like to repeat them once again, that it is also happening elsewhere. Why does Mr Van der Molen object to an inventory and a signal from the Minister? It doesn't take much time and it doesn't take much time. Does Mr Van der Molen support my calls for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u35	I read the Minister's letter in such a way that it sends a signal and reaffirms that these are the standards of quality and independence that a university does not mingle with. The fact that Erasmus University is scared and immediately intervenes is also because it knows that there is a great risk that people will doubt the quality of research and training. That signal is very clear. The CDA will ensure that, before we know what is going on specifically, we start making inventories and such. That can be done at a later date, and I do not rule that out, but we should not conduct an incident policy by immediately declaring that we need to know everything, because that is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u36	I cannot believe that Mr Van der Molen of the adage "healing is better than preventing" is. I therefore call on him once again to support my requests, to send a signal to all universities and not just to the RSM and to a simple inventory. We all have a right, citizens, voters and voters, to transparency, to an inventory of the number of universities and colleges that have entered into an agreement with the fossil industry, which in itself is nothing wrong with it. From there we can examine to what extent the signals we have just mentioned are worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u37	I would like to say to Mr Özdil: healing or prevention is what doctors do, and doctors have the right quality to make a very strict diagnosis before looking at what they are going to do. My plea has been: let us do so now. Erasmus University researches this to the bottom by independent scientists. As soon as there is on the table what is going on, we say together that we can take a number of steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u38	My question to Mr Van der Molen is of a slightly different order. He just sings the benefit of independent scientists; we have to follow them if they come up with a conclusion and then we can talk about it. I understand that so well, don't I? Then I have a question for him. Those independent scientists have just written a report on ExxonMobil that really distorts the information about the fossil industry. Does Mr Van der Molen endorse the results of this research by these independent scientists? Maybe he doesn't know about this investigation. Is he willing to promise that he'll watch this? But in principle, I assume that if these are independent researchers, the CDA also finds that ExxonMobil has now been found to distort the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u39	I don't know that investigation. It would be very strange, without knowing, to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u40	That is not a good thing for you in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u41	I don't know. I don't have to read every report. This is important to you and you have doubts as to whether the independence of universities in research is under pressure. That would not be a good development. I did not want to give a different impression of this and certainly not to give a new impression. The subject of this debate is the situation at Erasmus University. The question is what we think of the letter sent by the Minister. The CDA supports the Minister, who puts the ball down at Erasmus University. There, this is thoroughly investigated by external, independent scientists. We can make the deal perfectly that, if that proves to be a great deal of misery, on the basis of facts that have been examined again, even though I do not want to say that what has been said now, there is no fact that we know exactly what it is and what we have to do, possibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u42	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u43	I would ask Mr Van der Molen to give an explicit opinion, not now, but at a later stage, on the research I mentioned in my contribution. I'm very curious how the CDA looks at that. This is a question for Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u44	I indicated I didn't read that investigation. If I don't know something, I tend not to say anything. Not every politician has been given that, but I'm doing it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u45	It is clear, Mr Van Raan. Perhaps you could make a copy of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u46	The question is whether he wants to look at it and give an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u47	I'd be happy to look into an investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u48	Incident politics is one, ostrich politics is two. Just a year before Changerism's research came out, I organized a debate at Erasmus University on the independence of science. What did everyone say? There's nothing to worry about. A year later, there is an incredible amount of negative publicity about Erasmus University, because something was going on. That's bad for the name of science. Mr Van der Molen is very much in favour of timeliness and timing. I think there is a win-win situation, because Erasmus University does its own research and I welcome that. Shall we take the same time to have the Minister do a fine investigation at the same time? Then we take a good time, because if something turns out to be wrong at Erasmus University and another university, we can have one debate on it. That's not such a crazy suggestion. Indeed, it is better to prevent than to heal, not to put your head in the sand and to think about how we can protect science from a bad name. Let's look at that now. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u49	Your question was: isn't that a crazy suggestion? That's not a crazy suggestion, but I disagree. It's possible. There are clear signs that something is going on at Erasmus University. We do not want there to be doubts when we read a scientific study, whether it is true what it says. On the contrary, I think it is very good to do it in the order in which you leave responsibility at the university, that the university is going to examine this matter with speed, and to see on that basis whether more is needed. In that order, because I think the university should be able to clean up first. I read in the Minister's letter that they are going to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u50	I understand that you may not agree with the SP, but I just gave a nice quote from Minister Kamp. When asked why a second study is started when there is already a large research programme, he replied: I do, because the first research is sponsored by Shell and that may be difficult, because people do not feel that it is independent. This problem is not only at Erasmus University, and even Minister Kamp sees this problem. Is it not wise, when we see that this problem is at several universities, even in research programmes, to think about it now, now that we have some time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u51	Now it doesn't always help a CDA guy to say: I'm a SP'er, but listen to a VVD guy; I'd like to give you that. Of course I understand what Minister Kamp said. He says, "We don't want an investigation in which finances are held by a party that's attached to the problem." That is exactly what we have at Erasmus University. We do not need to discuss whether we believe that science is influenced by fossil industry or any other industry. It is quite clear that we simply do not know that. We'll get those reports, too. I still have an opinion to make on that report by Mr Van Raan. Then I want to know that it's just right. The order proposed by the Minister is the right one: first, Erasmus University will find out and then we can check with each other whether more is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. Research at universities should be independent, otherwise we wouldn't need universities. Investments in education and science are not there to replace those of companies in research and development. However, universities must be able to strengthen research by companies. We must also be honest: students are not there to stay in higher education forever; on the contrary, we want them to work after their studies, for example at a company. Guarding this border seems to have gone badly wrong at the Rotterdam School of Management, at least if we have to rely on Changerism's report. After all, getting Shell to decide which students are allowed to do a master's degree goes way beyond that limit. Allowing Shell to determine what the curriculum may look like also goes far beyond that limit and the provision of research services by universities to companies raises a lot of questions. It is therefore perfectly right that Erasmus University should take this issue seriously and have a heavy, independent committee get to the bottom of what has gone wrong. I also welcome the fact that the Minister has made it clear that she has an arsenal at her disposal to intervene if those abuses are indeed proven. It is therefore understandable that colleagues have said that they fear that this case is not on its own. The case Shell-Erasmus is not the latest cocktail of oil and science. ExxonMobil's climate expert revealed two years ago that the oil company has been familiar with the dangers of climate change since 1981, but has since invested EUR 30 million in think tanks and research to deny climate change. Last February, the Correspondent also stated that Shell has been lobbying against climate change policies for a quarter of a century. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she has any indication that the fossil industry, including possibly Shell, has not only in America but also in the Netherlands, through universities, tried to influence the perception of climate change in such a way that there are doubts about its existence and its cause. It would be good if we were to be clear about the answer to the question of whether there are any indications of this. There is one other aspect. I see Mr Özdil standing by the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think it's a good idea for you to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u54	Oh. A completely different aspect is the mixing of research and development with research. In the Netherlands, private R&D is lagging behind. The Rathenau Institute previously announced that the Netherlands is below the European average at 1.1% of GDP of private R&D. For an innovation country like the Netherlands, these figures are very poor. So the question is whether close cooperation between companies and universities can also be an incentive for companies to invest less themselves in research under the motto: if the State does it, why would the market do it? Research by scientists who are not employed by a company has advantages. It's easier for them to switch to another investigation. They are not employed by the company and therefore more flexible. The lusts, but not the burden. Is the Minister prepared to check whether cooperation between companies and science, for example in the pharmaceutical industry, will reduce incentives for companies to invest themselves in research and development? Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u55	Are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yes. I'll make a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u57	I would like to congratulate Mr Paternotte. I agree wholeheartedly with him; he may have just heard it. Mr Paternotte asked the Minister to look at the cooperation between the fossil industry and education. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that this is a transparent inventory of the whole of the Netherlands? I would like to make this clear. Maybe he's saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u58	I think it would be good if the Rotterdam School of Management case were examined to the very bottom. That's what's happening now. The Minister shall indicate what she may be able to do afterwards. So that's clear. The other question is about the relationship between private R&D in the Netherlands and the fact that links between companies universities are strong. Yes, I would have liked to have examined it. But that's separate from this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u59	Then I get it. Then Mr Paternotte talks about immediate action. He's to be congratulated for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u60	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linde on behalf of the VVD. Or did he trade with someone? No, I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr. Chairman. This year, my daughter's graduating from college. Very nice, but then she has to choose an education that prepares her for a new job, preferably in a nice student city. It could just be TU Delft. Which jobs do you actually prepare for is not always clear, because study and practice are far too often separated. Training must prepare for a job of the future. The learning material must fit in well with practice. Of course, this is best done by involving the companies for which our students are going to work later in the programme, as well as in research. Does it matter if it's Greenpeace or Shell? No. Both organisations have an interest in well-educated students for the future. Both organizations need these students for research. It doesn't help our students if we're going to refuse industry research. There's a lot of knowledge in that sector. A lot of students would like to get on with that. Research is also essential for the transition to a sustainable society. Shell also finances research into hydrogen and electric driving. Then where's the border? And more importantly, are we in the Lower House going to decide with each other what the good companies are and what isn't? It is a pity that parties here want to get in the way of the training of our young people. It is a pity that parties want to get in the way of innovation here. We need them very much to speed up the sustainability of our energy supply in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u62	If I see the number of spokesmen on the interrupting microphone, it might have been better if this was your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u63	We can make a maiden speech, Mr. Chairman. I'll be done soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr Özdil, or was Mr Van Raan earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u65	Looks like my VVD colleague is fighting windmills. Of all the things he has just mentioned, we have just said explicitly that we are very much in favour of cooperation, for strengthening research and development. Again, it is about the extent to which fossil companies have the power to determine the content of education, to send it to their own interests and to colour it. I don't think the VVD thinks that's a healthy development either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u66	In this context, this debate is entirely premature. There's an investigation going on, but apparently we need to talk about it now. So you speak with flour in your mouth, because you don't know the facts yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u67	An investigation is under way into what happened at the Rotterdam School of Management. There are signs that it's happening elsewhere, right up to primary schools. So it doesn't make any sense what you're saying. It is not true that research is being carried out into how big it is in the Netherlands. I therefore call on you to support our requests for transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u68	It has not been our choice to hold a debate on this. We simply want to wait for an investigation and then have a proper debate. It's really a shot of hail we're firing here. I fully agree with the speakers who have said this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u69	I hear the speaker saying that it is good for parties, with whatever intention, to have the opportunity to have access to influence on education. I know the VVD as a party that likes to create a level playing field; I think this is a statement from the VVD. Does the speaker of VVD say here with dry eyes that the influence in money that can be added to green, innovative companies is as large as the fossil industry? He can't say that with dry eyes, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u70	You didn't hear me say anything about that. All I said was that we'd like to wait and see the investigation. It is now about something that happened at Erasmus University, but the third money flow is important for all kinds of research. Without the money from the fossil industry, as you call it, it could be very quiet in Delft. We need this research to make our industry more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u71	That is in no way an answer to the question, but I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u72	Perhaps we are in a very predictable debate. I hear you telling a very beautiful and traditional VVD story, but what if it's very nice for your daughter that she's now in 6 vwo... is better to think again about that funding? The D66 colleague just pointed out that companies do not invest very much in science. The Ministry of Economic Affairs says that pioneering innovations are lacking. You are talking about your daughter's future, which you are concerned about, whether that future is in the fossil or, I hope, in the green industry. Having regard to EZ's report, which shows that investment in research by companies is not working at the moment, and to D66's remark that the contribution of companies is lagging behind, is it not wise to take place just now and think about the future of your daughter and other funding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u73	I can't tie a rope to that. For years we have been concerned about the contribution of Dutch industry to R&D. We're trying to expand that in every possible way. There's one incident now, and it's being investigated. You then say: let's shut it down completely. I can't make chocolate out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u74	One incident. Are we talking about one incident or are we talking about a bigger problem? That is actually a bit at the heart of this debate. I think there's a lot of evidence that we're talking about a bigger problem. We have already mentioned examples, such as a report by Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economic Affairs says that pioneering innovations are lacking. We have examples of other universities. Then what do you think is needed to broaden this investigation? Do you really want to wait and see if things go south?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u75	I would like to have an orderly debate on the way in which we set up the third money stream. That's no problem at all. That is just not the portee of this debate. This debate is focused on that worse fossil industry. Then you just mean big Dutch companies that make a big contribution to climate research. And we don't really want it in there. I am only going to call out from the House of Representatives here: these institutions are not, these institutions are not. And that's under this debate. I don't feel like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u76	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. This could have been an interesting debate, but it is immeasurable. That's been said. Pending the results of that independent committee, the Minister cannot make any substantive statements to a heavy committee within Erasmus University. It would have ordained the SP to postpone this debate, because, as far as I am concerned, it is a waste of time. In addition, this left-wing resentment we see is based on a report by, as I call it, a club of climate believers who have an interest in blackmailing the fossil industry and Erasmus University. Anyone who in a title of a study suggests that Erasmus University facilitates climate change is clearly biased. We have the greatest difficulty in taking that seriously. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that the SP has also come under the spell of climate hysteria, as we call it, which has taken our education ever further. The criminalisation of the fossil industry is not even shunned. As has just been recalled, this is an industry that is still desperately needed to provide us with affordable energy. That is an objective which the SP should at least appeal to. It is precisely her electorate who will benefit from affordable energy. Life is expensive enough as it is. Why should all those students who are so eager to work for a renowned company like Shell be the victim of this meddling? Why should that freaked out aversion against everything that doesn't fit into that gospel of climate religion, a flow of students towards that business in the way? This special relationship between Erasmus University and Shell is nothing new, because it has existed for a long time, but it is now suddenly a source of concern, including for Erasmus University itself. That is why this in-depth investigation has been initiated and that is a very good thing. I find the selective indignation with regard to certain activities of universities. Why do I find that selective? Our academic education here is about the integrity of science at present being bombarded from all sides with all kinds of progressive prejudices, or biases, as my VVD colleague Duisenberg has just mentioned. We are talking about prejudices that have no scientific basis. The danger of that progressive storm you're seeing in the United States is blowing over to our universities. The essence of academic education is severely affected there. There are many examples of this. I would also like to debate this very much in the coming period, but I do not understand why it is being so selectively outraged, when I do not see Mrs Beckerman standing here when Professor Ruud Koopmans, for example, comes up with fantastic scientific research and is being held accountable by his left-wing students because the facts are not politically correct. Why can't I hear you when antifa campuses in the United States go to hell because the facts of certain professors don't fit in with their politically correct world view? That's dangerous! That has already begun, Mrs Beckerman, you are already standing at the interrupting microphone with Professor Bukhuizen, who has been completely defeated by the left-wing thought police, a huge political talent that had to turn to Spain for the left-wing thought police who had already been working to undermine the integrity of science. There are many examples. I can mention a few more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u78	But there are now three colleagues who want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u79	The message was: that is where the integrity of science is compromised, not here yet, and we await the Minister's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u80	I was just standing here at the arrangement of work and then I quoted a very nice quote from a minister, and I don't often do that because I'm not a believer. The reverend said, "In Groningen, I learned to curse." And that was because of the gas extraction, because of the same Shell that we are now discussing. You're saying we're blackmailing Shell and the funding system. But when I debate here with your colleague Dion Graus, I hear a different story. Then I actually hear empathy and support for the people in Groningen. Do you not think it is bizarre that after so many years of gas extraction there is still no scientific research into what is a safe level but that there is scientific research, paid by Shell, however, that payment is not mentioned anywhere, which says: please give Shell a tax discount? That is the system that we are condemning here, precisely where there are hundreds of thousands of Groningers who have damage to their homes. Do you not think that the scientific agenda is partly due to the policy of the funding system...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u81	You've already asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u82	It has been said a number of times, but, again, that is not the portee of this debate. As my colleague from the CDA said, this is about the alleged undesirable entanglement between business, in this case Shell, and Erasmus University Rotterdam. If those indications are there, and they are there, then they are taken very seriously. This Minister and the university itself have launched this in-depth investigation, and I await the results of this. If there is indeed much need to talk about it further, then we are going to do so. Then I or my colleague from Economic Affairs come back here with great love to debate with you again, but let us wait and see. You're such a sturm-und urge. Fine, but it's gonna cost too much money. You've been wanting to do this kind of research all over the university. It costs an awful lot of money. Wait a minute, Mrs. Beckerman, come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u83	Wait a minute? You say the problem does exist, but I'm just denying it, I'm just waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u84	I'm not denying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u85	You deny it's going on at other universities, because you don't want to do research. You say: we limit it nicely, we limit the problem to that one faculty, which we already know is the problem. It is very good that research is being done, but it is a repeat of what Changerism has already done. If you acknowledge that it is playing there, I have given you examples that it is also playing in other faculties, why not also investigate this at those other universities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u86	Yeah, Changerism's report... I've been referring to it for a while. The title is: How the Rotterdam School of Management facilitates climate change. "Facilitates climate change"? Erasmus University facilitates your maleized global warming? There are several sounds in the climate debate. I think this is a suggestion, and I think that Erasmus University is almost criminalised in this way. I find that really unbearable. I do not think that is possible, especially because at this point in time that deep investigation is under way. Wait it out! And then we'll talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u87	I have heard Mr Bertema talk about climate religion, climate believers and climate hysteria. He said there's a progressive storm blowing through the United States. The only storm that's coming there right now is a storm that can be classified as the biggest hurricane since time immemorial in the Caribbean. In the meantime Shell, ExxonMobil, say all major oil companies: yes, climate change exists and is caused by man; it is due to the greenhouse effect and it is a major problem for humanity. If you say there are multiple sounds, it's because your sound is there. My question is when are you going to join the scientific consensus of more than 99% of all scientists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u88	There is no point in having a climate debate here. Neither should we. It's not my wallet either; that's what other people are about. I'd almost like to say, come out of your canal belt bubble. Remember, last week, Wageningen University invited a climate scientist... the name just slipped my mind... who's not just anybody. He's a man who's a renowned scientist in his circles. He doesn't endorse the 99% you're talking about. What happens if such a scientist with his own scientific standards keeps his story there? Then there is protest by all those left-wing crazies who vote D66 and GroenLinks, who call themselves student, because it is not allowed, it is not allowed. Because they're touching the story of Al Gore and that's the new religion. Nothing else must be said. Mr Koopmans was held accountable by his own students, as if they were revolutionary guards, because his conclusions were politically unfriendly. This is how the current university culture is built, and that is very worrying. Look what's happening in the United States at Berkeley and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u89	I do not want to have a climate debate, but you said that this debate comes from climate hysteria. Perhaps you're right that people in the canal belt once started talking about climate change. I'm sure that's back in the '60s. But by now you've really been overtaken by the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u90	Your facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u91	The warmest ten years in the history of mankind were the last. All countries in the world are concluding a climate agreement and recognising this problem. Just not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u92	That is the climate debate and I am not going to start because I have much more to do today. That's not gonna work. Mr. President, let me help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u93	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mr President, allow me first of all to take back what I just said about the age of my colleague, Mr Beertema. We're supposed to be dealing with each other here on the substance and not on the man. And I'm supposed to stick to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u95	Well, that slipped my mind. What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u96	Yeah, I won't take anything back!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u97	Do you have an age thing, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u99	Now Mr. Beertema himself begins, but okay. My question to Mr Beertema. Apart from his words 'left-wing crazies' or 'right-wing crazies' or ideologies or whatever: does Mr Beertema agree with me that it is our job as representatives of the people to be informed, to know what flows of money are and what power relations there are between organizations and education in our country? As far as I am concerned, we can also include clubs such as Greenpeace, which Mr Beertema mentioned. Does he agree with me that we just need to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u100	Sure. I take my job as a representative of the people seriously. But it is true that the research that is now being advocated is a very large study. And I think it's premature. You know, if these clues are there, then fine. It is handled very carefully. I believe in the integrity of the investigation. I believe in the independence of that committee, and I think it is now far too early to spend those precious educational euros on it. Then there is so much more to investigate that we, as representatives of the people, are all entitled to. Of course, of course: information is the most important thing. But let this investigation be the first step. Let's just wait and see. You took back a few words. I accept that apology, but I would like to add that it often happens to us as PVV people that people in all sides want to say all kinds of things about PVV people. The most annoying one I do find who starts with "I don't want to discriminate, but..." Let's put it that way. I accept your apology.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u101	I am delighted to hear from a PVV member that collective punishment or a collective conviction is not good. I take that to heart, too. I appreciate Mr Beertema's view that it is our job as representatives of the people to identify important issues. But it can't cost anything. I can guarantee to Mr Beertema that the inventory of which fossil industries and Greenpeace-like organisations give money to educational institutions in the Netherlands or what contracts or agreements they conclude may be half a day or a day's work for a policy officer at OCW. It's gonna cost almost nothing, and it's gonna take us a step further. Are you willing to support my request?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u102	I can't imagine it's one day of one policy officer. There will undoubtedly be many more. I'm gonna say it again: I think it's untimely. If that report leads to very disturbing conclusions, then we have a very different story. Then we really have a different story. Then it weighs a lot heavier. Then we can also go to this minister with much more ammunition and say: look at Minister, this is absolutely wrong. Then we have every reason and you have much more support for putting the Minister, OCW and the universities into work. Absolutely. I agree. But right now, I think it's too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u103	One more sentence!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u104	One last paragraph. I wanted to make another point of order. Of course, the Minister is going to say in her term that she can't say anything and everything. I understand that very well. Shall we just drop that second term, I suggest? Then we can postpone it until that investigation, which we all eagerly look forward to, has appeared.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u105	I see Mrs Beckerman shaking no. So that's not gonna happen. But of course you are free to use it or not. I see the Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by stressing that Dutch science is of high quality. We are also internationally known for this. 2. Let me conclude that there is a lively discussion in Dutch science. Within universities and the Academy, but also in many public places, scientists often discuss each other. And that's good, because there are different opinions within science. That's a good thing! If that has to happen somewhere, it's in science. But to fight each other with arguments. 3. It is very important that universities, as well as other knowledge and education institutions, turn their eyes out and not turn into themselves. The university is a research institution but also an educational institution. It is particularly important for future graduates to learn about what is for sale in the outside world, to hear about it and to gain experience with it. This is important in order to continue their career, but also in the context of science, knowledge transfer and knowledge circulation. Because universities are involved, academic freedom is, of course, vital in this cooperation. It must never be affected and must never be sent to a curriculum. Nor should the results of research be controlled. There is a very important border. Scientific research is by definition free and unbound. The principles of scientific integrity are central, including maximum transparency in research for third parties. Those are the starting points. We have a whole range of instruments, often developed by the knowledge institutions and the universities themselves, to monitor them; I will be able to tell you more about them later. Doesn't anything ever go wrong at universities? Yeah, of course, something could go wrong there too. For example, there is a suspicion that too little transparency has indeed been shown at the Rotterdam School of Management in cooperation with third parties. When I read Changerism's report, I also gave a firm response, I must say. For, as I said earlier, guidance on education and research is out of the question. So if that happened there, it's wrong. But we must know that, because if we want to hold on to the high esteem that Dutch science has, we must also trust science. Then we must say: we want you, if there are abuses, to do so yourself. Fortunately, I note that Erasmus University has done so. In response to the report, she has directly endorsed the principles of academic freedom and scientific integrity, and she has put her own heart in it. It was immediately admitted that a cooperation agreement with Shell included an unfortunate wording on the possible influence of the curriculum and the profiles of students. As I have just said, it is not allowed and it is very undesirable. The university thus indicates that this should not have happened and that this is being adapted. She has indicated that it must be transparent and has meanwhile appointed an independent committee with authoritative members to look at all the collaborations of the Rotterdam School of Management with companies. A register will also be established on cooperation between the Rotterdam School of Management and companies. Mr Van der Molen asked about that register. It will probably be public in the first quarter of 2018. Erasmus University will learn from this for the entire Erasmus University. I also assume that the lessons of this will certainly be shared with others. I will also pass on his wish once again to Erasmus University. In addition, not only in this sense but also in another sense, the university really wants to learn lessons from the research of that independent committee and to see if the creation of a register on the collaboration of the Rotterdam School of Management with companies can really improve. All this has given me the confidence in the university's self-regulatory capacity, and that is crucial in monitoring academic freedom and scientific integrity. It now also fits in with my role to follow the developments at the Management School in Rotterdam through the education inspection, but first let the board do its job. I would therefore say: let us express our confidence in it. And yes, as I say to Mrs Beckerman, if there is a problem, we must take a serious look at it. Nor do I deny that there seems to be a problem here, but that is being investigated now. This fits precisely with the confidence we want to express in science and the need for academic freedom, transparency and integrity. If the report gives rise to this, I would also like to discuss this further with you. In terms of timeliness, the time at which the report now being produced by the authoritative committee and if possible completed by the end of this year could be the time to continue the debate. I see no reason to do so now. I also see no reason to list the possible other bands, as the SP and GroenLinks asked, because that would mean imposing or imposing a top-down obligation of mistrust. Precisely because education and research are of a high level, we have to rely on trust in the relationship between government and university. Teachers and researchers appeal to me once again, I also say to Mrs Beckerman. They say: please rely on trust, because every time you don't, it creates enormous bureaucracy and keeps everyone away from the work that you want to do. I have heard that cry of hearts very well over the past few years. I also think it is not necessary, because we have a system in which universities control themselves and each other when there are unwanted relationships or too intimate links between a university and any third organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u107	Good, Minister! I also very much agree with you and welcome what you say about trust in science. I'm a scientist and I worked at a university until I was a Member of Parliament. I recognise this very much and I very much appreciate your expressing the importance of scientific freedom, academic freedom and the debate at university. So I fully agree with that, but I do think that we have a role to play in this. I'd like a reaction to that. A lot of the research that the university is doing is because of the way the research is funded. You also know that this is happening mostly from here. You have a driving role in that. So I'd like to ask you about that. In addition to the research that Erasmus University is doing now, is it not very sensible to see how much funding works, for example, because there is more and more a second flow of money and, for example, because you increasingly make it compulsory to work with companies? Don't you work properly in the hand that you now applaud so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u108	No, I don't think so. We have also had research on this in recent years. There has been an ibo, an interdepartmental policy investigation, into the funding of science. It came out that financing is broadly balanced. A number of concerns also emerged, for example about possible perverse effects of the promotional bonus. I changed it. It also showed that ibo is of great importance to align all the different scientific and innovation resources that we have much more closely. So together with colleagues Kamp and Dekker I have been working to achieve a much better alignment between what is happening at EZ with top sectors, the Wbso and the innovation resources and what is happening at OCW from both basic research and practical research, for example at colleges. That's what the science vision is built on and then the science agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u109	However, there is a report on the top sectors of the economy, which is precisely the research that we are talking about here, research together with companies in which the Ministry of Economic Affairs says instantly that the expected ground-breaking innovations are lacking. So we see 1. that science can be coloured by links with companies, in the case of this debate the fossil industry, and 2. that pioneering innovations are lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u110	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u111	I would ask again for a response to that report, which is quite shocking. Half the money from the second money stream goes there. Don't you find that shocking, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u112	I do not know in detail that report by Mr Kamp van Economische Zaken. So I can't say much about it. However, I can say that, as Minister of Science, who is also responsible for fundamental research, I am not particularly impressed by the lack of ground-breaking innovations. After all, perhaps more time is needed to achieve these innovations. Perhaps it has been concluded that this is not just a question of application-oriented research, but rather a question of recognition and cooperation with fundamental research. At least that's my message. I think we can agree on that. That is why, in the Science Agenda too, fundamental unbound research has been assigned a place, where scientists are free and can carry out long-term research without politicians, companies or anyone else touching them and asking if they can quickly come up with an interesting innovation. For me this is a very important message to science and politics. It is therefore up to universities to decide who they want to connect with, whether commercial or not. Mr Özdil asked whether industry could impose requirements on institutions. No. Businesses cannot make demands, because institutions are independent. They must therefore also ensure that they retain that independence and, where necessary, we try to help them. That also fits well in the system we have. Education institutions have a public mission, but they are autonomous in how they shape it. Education and research are protected by academic freedom, although the government makes demands on the quality of education. Within the autonomous institutions, the Executive Board shall be responsible for the conduct of the proceedings. There are also internal checks-and-balances with a large role for the educational community, participation and the supervisory board. With your Chamber two years ago, I made a law that has been passed in both chambers, which has increased the role of these internal checks-and-balances by giving greater influence to participation. This means that there must also be room for internal checks-and-balances and academic freedom and for different visions within them. Mr Paternotte specifically asked about cooperation with the fossil industry if I have any signs of influence in a more structural sense. No, I don't have any signs that this happens more often. The starting point remains: I said that research must be scientifically relevant and that it is at university to determine who is to be agreed with. I have no reason to believe that universities now lend themselves or ever lend themselves to spreading alternative truths. Perhaps it is good to remind you that a March for Science took place around the world on 22 April. Many Dutch universities were there, just like the President of the Academy. I myself walked very consciously to give a clear signal. If there are such signals that transparency, scientific integrity or academic freedom would be at risk, we must act. But I have no reason to assume that happens very often. I do have many signals that this cooperation is going very well, as I say to Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u113	Before you proceed, Mr Paternotte has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u114	My question was not whether this is happening now. All major oil companies now recognise the problem of climate change for humanity and its causes. Therefore, I do not think that cooperation is now taking place to deny climate change, but it may well have happened in the past. The question is whether the Minister has any indication that cooperation between these companies and universities has ever played a role in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u115	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u116	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u117	I do have some signals about projects in which this collaboration follows the principles of the Science Vision and the Science Agenda in a very good way to look at societal challenges. This could be about the energy transition and also about many other issues relating to food safety, integration or whatever. But let me give you an example where it is also about raw materials: the Advanced Research Center CBBC in Utrecht. This is a research centre that tackles important energy and chemistry issues, with the aim of finding alternatives to the finite supply of raw materials. There the universities of Utrecht, Eindhoven and Groningen, NWO, but also AkzoNobel, BASF and Shell work together on fundamental research. Ben Feringa you know him; he is the recent Nobel Prize-winning president of this center. This shows that there should be no contradiction between fundamental research and cooperation. But here too, the principles I have just outlined must be complied with. I just mentioned the National Science Agenda. One of the routes that we have identified here is the energy transition: building a sustainable and secure energy supply and a strong green knowledge economy. The aim of this route is to ensure collaboration with many parties in science and beyond and that all our knowledge is used as best as possible to shape that social goal. The beauty of the Science Agenda is its inclusive character. Companies may be connected, but Milieudefensie and Greenpeace are just as welcome as partners. I think that is an important message to convey: no one is excluded. As far as I'm concerned, science is included. I would therefore like to see this cooperation increase private investment in research and development. That is also necessary, because private investment............................................................................................................................................................................................. It is not just the government that needs to invest heavily in science. Businesses must do the same. Mr Paternot asked whether companies now invest less in R&D. I can't confirm that. In general, there seems to be a positive development. The more university funding, the greater the contribution from private R&D funds. Empirical research in OECD countries based on time series also indicates that university and private research at macro level are complementary. They're not interchangeable, they're complementary. According to most studies in which this relationship has been investigated, a larger scale of university research has a positive impact on the size of the private R&D funds. That's what we call leverage. I would also add that it would be very undesirable for companies to phase out research. I have not received any signals from that, but it would be very undesirable, because I believe that this gap should be closed by additional private investment. Cooperation is therefore desirable in principle, but should never interfere with the scientific principles of integrity, academic freedom and so on. How do we shape that? We have different ways of doing that. We've discussed this before. I have also often debated it with Mrs Beckerman's predecessor, Mr Jasper van Dijk, particularly with regard to secondary posts of professors. In my letter of 16 June, I stressed that cooperation is in principle positive, but that transparency must be properly designed and therefore there should be no direction on the curriculum or research results. How do we do that now? We do this, among other things, with a code of conduct to which universities and their staff must comply. Mr Özdil asked for a code of conduct for cooperation between the fossil industry and universities. I can serve him at his beck and call, because he's already here. We have a code of conduct for all scientists. It is made by universities, KNAW, NWO, but also colleges and TO2 institutions. Everyone has to stick to that. The Code of Conduct on Science requires that cooperation should not harm the independence of education and research. Results should not be influenced by a company and should be able to be published. The research should be scientifically relevant, so not only relevant to the company. And the relationship with the client, such as an advisorship, must always be clear. Possible appearances of conflict of interest should always be avoided or, in the extreme case, mentioned in publications. External financiers are mentioned, for example at Education, by mentioning them in course announcements and course materials. In the case of research, the results of sponsored research should always be mentioned in publications. In addition, we also have the Ancillary Works Scheme for Professors, which states that permission should be given by the Board to perform ancillary activities and ancillary functions. The professor must mention these secondary activities on the profile page of his university. To be honest, I have every confidence that this will work the way it should. We have not been given a code or a rule, but actually, through a culture change, we have been given a culture in which we are always talking about the risks of, for example, sloppy science and scientific fraud. Unfortunately, we have seen examples of this in recent years, such as the cases of Stapel and Nijkamp. They've come a long way in science. I welcome the fact that this will lead to new discussions within universities. Are we all doing well enough now? It has also led to new research by the Rathenau Institute. This has shown that confidence in science as such has not been compromised. Then, on top of everything I have already mentioned, we also have the National Institute of Scientific Integrity, where all universities are affiliated, but also NWO, KNAW and many others. The LOWI advises institution boards and individual cases in decisions on scientific integrity. LOWI is, in fact, a higher appeal body where interested parties can lodge complaints after an institution has first examined the specific case itself. The Dutch Code of Conduct Science Practice, which I have just mentioned, is constantly being updated on the basis of discussions within the academic world, for example on self-plagiarism or statements by the LOWI. In this sense, there is, in fact, a continuous discussion and adaptation of possible codes. For the sake of completeness, I also mention that the VSNU monitors the progress of universities every year in monitoring the publication of ancillary work by their professors on their own profile page. We can see that almost 90% of the ordinary professors are now affiliated. Where this is not yet the case, we are dealing with professors or medical professors, but we are also working on this. For example, in July of this year, a sectoral ancillary work scheme was introduced which replaces all local rules. Mr Van Raan asked about the special position of professors. Universities impose requirements in administrative and management regulations that a special chair must meet. In doing so, participation has the right of assent. It therefore has a heavy impact on the way in which it is handled. I assume that universities too will look critically at the objectives of the chair and look at those objectives from different angles, because a university itself will not benefit from the appointment of professors who do not function properly and who do not respect the principles that I have repeated a few times. Independence also applies to the extraordinary professors. This is also the subject of the Ancillary Work Scheme. Mrs Beckerman asked whether I would like to revisit the Academy's research that was the basis of Science on order from 2005, focusing on the fossil industry or at least expanding research. I do not see much added value in doing a very comprehensive study now, given the lack of structural signals. I also note that the Academy made recommendations in 2005 on the basis of the research they carried out at the time. The main recommendation was that contractors and contractors should sign a declaration of scientific independence. This is now laid down in the Dutch Code of Conduct for Science which I have just mentioned. So we have taken important steps in this area. Mr Özdil and I believe Mr Van Raan also asked about the relationship with education: is it allowed to make demands on education? It is not allowed for industry or other organisations, such as NGOs, to make demands on higher education institutions. The only ones who can do so are the legislator and the accreditation body, the NVAO. Of course, cooperation is allowed, but the law stipulates that the higher education institution determines the content of education and always remains responsible for it. That is not to say that I have also stated in my strategic agenda 'The value of knowing' that it is not desirable to seek precisely that cooperation in education with third parties. But I would be happy if, for example, a university of students had the views of Shell and Milieudefensie put side by side and had them analyzed, also in order to increase their own critical capacity. Last Monday, at the opening of the academic year at Radboud University, I made a plea precisely for that sense of value that universities must promote and the critical capacity that they should actually pursue in any training. I would therefore say to Mr Van Raan: it is the task of higher education to teach students to judge critically, to look critically at information and to make a weighting, and to protect them from unilateral influence from politics, business or anywhere else. That goes for everyone. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u118	Has there been a question left, Mr Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u119	No, not that. I do have one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u120	Go ahead. Short, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u121	I heard the Minister's story. Theoretically, it's true, but what about in practice? Can the Minister give a brief reflection on that? I am referring to teaching material that is delivered ready-to-use, can be found on YouTube and is used by let's say at least very busy teachers, who may not have the time: such a perfect video of Shell on YouTube of four minutes showing that gas extraction is entirely the future, though sometimes it can cause some vibrations in the ground. Yeah... can a reflection come up on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u122	Schools, universities, all educational institutions are responsible for the content of education. There's a lot on offer. There are a lot of things to find on the internet, but fortunately we have teachers who have all attended HBO or WO training. If we learn that critical ability to a sufficient extent, they are very capable of distinguishing between commercial information and educational information. I like to trust Dutch teachers with that role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u123	Thank you. I understand that there is a need for a second term. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is one minute, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u124	Mr. Chairman. I'm just filing my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by Changerism shows that there are very close links between the fossil industry and Erasmus University;]] [[Considers that there is sufficient evidence that these tyres could lead to a coloured examination;]] [[Whereas science must play an important role in the energy transition and response to climate change;]] [[calls on the government, in line with Changerism, to identify links with the fossil industry for all Dutch universities, specifically to examine the role of the government in this and to come forward with proposals to ensure greater independence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-597]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. First of all good news: sporting that Mr Van der Molen of the CDA wants to participate in a knowledge exchange on the ExxonMobil report. That's what we're gonna talk about; I sent him the link. So you can see that in this house too, the increase in knowledge increases. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fossil industry has an influence on research at the Dutch universities;]] [[noting that this constitutes a threat to the independence of scientific research;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent review committee to assess both ex ante and ex post the integrity and scientific quality of third-party funded research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-598]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u126	For the sake of time, I'll file the second motion immediately. The findings are the same, but the operative part is something else. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the fossil industry has an influence on research at the Dutch universities;]] [[noting that this constitutes a threat to the independence of scientific research;]] [[calls on the Government to establish stricter independence requirements for special chairs financed by industry or civil society organisations and foundations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-599]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her clear answers. She mentioned, among other things, a whole range of instruments that are indeed already in place to ensure the independence of education and science in the Netherlands. However, I am not entirely reassured, given all the signals and considering what happened at the Rotterdam School of Management. I was considering tabling a motion in relation to my request to at least have transparency on how the financial interests between the fossil industry and educational institutions run in the Netherlands, but in order to meet both the Minister and my fellow chamber members, I await the research on the RSM. I'm gonna keep a close eye on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u128	Mr. Chairman. I think that the Minister has given excellent answers on the case we are talking about, and it concerns the issue of R&D investment in the Netherlands and the fact that the Rathenau Institute report and many other reports have shown that these investments continue to lag behind companies. We would like to have an answer to the question about the relationship with science. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that private R&D expenditure in the Netherlands is below the European average and that innovation is the only way for the Netherlands to grow the economy;]] [[Whereas universities should be independent of business interests;]] [[whereas university-business cooperation is commendable, but should not mean that universities render private investment in R&D unnecessary;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and to what extent links between publicly funded science and business lead to fewer incentives for companies to invest in research & development,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte, Mr Beckerman and Mr Özdil. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31288-600]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 597 members Beckerman and Van Raan ask that, following Changerism, links with the fossil industry be mapped out for all Dutch universities. I don't recommend that motion. That will not surprise you, because I have just stated in detail that I see no reason to carry out such an investigation. I also note that this will be a costly undertaking, which requires a great deal from universities. Like everyone here, Mrs Beckerman knows the complaint that there are so many rules and so many bureaucracy. If you want to do such an extensive investigation, you must have some good reason. I just indicated that I don't have those reasons. In the motion in part No. 598 Mr Van Raan asked the government to set up an independent review committee for the third money flow. I would advise against that motion, because I consider this unnecessary. I have just stated in detail that we have a lot of arrangements. These apply not only to the third money flow, but also to the third money flow. If anything is going on in terms of integrity or scientific quality, we have the scientific code of conduct. We have the LOWI where people can file complaints. I don't know what else we should do on top of that. In his motion in part No. 599 asks Mr Van Raan to establish stricter independence requirements for special chairs. It is for the same reason that I advise against this motion, namely because I consider it superfluous. I have just indicated that special professors must also comply with the agreements we have made to report secondary posts. The general scientific guarantees we have also apply to them. In the motion in part No. 600 members of Paternotte, Beckerman and Özdil are invited to examine whether, and to what extent, links between publicly funded science and industry lead to fewer incentives for companies to invest themselves in research and development. Again, I have no reason to conduct very specific research into the links with which companies exist at which research group. But if I may interpret the motion in such a way that the emphasis is placed on the role of R&D and the incentives that companies are given, then it is an interesting question. I have just said that I have no signs that companies are going to invest less, but I think the gap between R&D and public funding, like Mr Paternotte, is a real problem. I also note that it is difficult for us to close that gap properly. The question of the relationship between the extent to which private companies reduce research as there is public funding and the question of whether that gap is going to be closed or not, with Mr Paternotte, I find interesting questions for research. We should think about how that could be investigated. For example, the Academy could pick up such a question. That will allow me to leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber. If the authors so wish, I could accept her with my interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u130	Very briefly and really focused on the motion, Mr Paternotte. I do not want a debate or a debate, because that is what we have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u131	The Minister will explain the motion exactly as I intended. I'm not asking for a wide-ranging investigation in which we vet all the universities. I would like to find an answer to the questions as to how private R&D investments are so low and whether the links between companies and science play a role in this. I would like to accept the Minister's offer to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mr Paternotte's wording is even more concise than the way I just said it. I recognize myself well in this wording and I am happy to take over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u133	Then I'd like to stick to the Minister's wording, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm gonna see if anyone has any objection to taking over the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u135	If the Minister would like to take over the motion and do so himself, who am I to be against it? But I'd like to give you a tip. I think there are already 10, 20, 30 reports on why private R&D investments are lagging behind. If she is able to bring it together and add a semi-trailer, then we are already a lot further without taking a lot of time and energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u136	I'd love to take that with me, but I don't want to do that research on my own, also because of independence. Given the self-cleaning capacity that we know of science, I think that an organisation like the Academy is not saying that it should be the Academy, but that such an organisation should do that research. Then I would suggest that everything that has already been published about it should be included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u137	That is, of course, very good because I have also tabled the motion. The Minister says she has no clue at all about this and then she wants to do research. There are indications for the other motion, a full investigation has been carried out, but the Minister says that there are too few indications and that she does not want to do anything with them. I am sorry that she does not take some of the clues she does not have seriously and does not take any real clues seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u138	I do not entirely agree with that. We have clues at the Rotterdam School of Management and there is also an investigation. Only, that's about a faculty, a research group. Erasmus University did that. This fits in with the administrative framework. This is a much more general question, namely the relationship between resources for research and development and government research. We have to note that there is a real problem there, because R&D funding is lagging behind public funding. That is not new and that is why I find it interesting to look at it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u139	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-07-tweedekamer-7.u140	We shall be voting on the motions for resolutions tabled on Tuesday.
