ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	Good morning. I would like to welcome both directors. The next item is the budget for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations, including the Municipal Fund, the Province Fund, the National Service, the Digital Government, excluding the Caribbean Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	The first speaker is Mr Bosma of the Freedom Party. He has 20 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations to the new minister and to the new secretary of state. I'm glad you're here. Nice. Welcome. I hope for interesting debates. These two people have a very beautiful department to manage, including the AIVD, a service that is crucial for the survival of our people. Home Affairs is the mother department, and we have to be very careful about that. This cabinet won't be there that long. I would say: enjoy the service car and enjoy the honeymoon every minister has been awarded. As far as I am concerned, the honeymoon does not last very long, nor longer than the first paragraph of this text, which is now over. This Minister has announced that she will do what she has previously meant for Amsterdam for the whole of the Netherlands. That's not a promise, that's a threat. This minister worked in the civil service for a long time. She had a long, brilliant career there. Then she was parachuted four years ago in Amsterdam. I read in Het Parool that she was referred to at City Hall as "trainee." Her period there was seen as an internship. Her résumé had to be cheered up before she ended up here in The Hague. How'd her internship go? Internships like to give a glimpse of someone's fitness for a real job. Do her experiences and ideas make her fit for this position? What is Mrs Ollongren's position on democracy? How does it view our Constitution? How does she feel about our public administration? How good is it that she's gonna run the secret service? Today we're writing her internship report. Mrs. Ollongren is very connected, as they call it. Connection in the devious dictionary usually means hate against the PVV. Same here. I quote Mrs Ollongren from a speech in Amsterdam. "Wilders goes against everything that the Netherlands makes in the Netherlands, and Amsterdam Amsterdam. Road open society, road freedoms, road tolerance, road art & culture, road EU, road humanity and civilization. As far as I am concerned, the arrival of Wilders as Prime Minister or Minister may never have been so close, that is the case with the establishment of the Republic of Amsterdam." Over and over again, Mrs Ollongren pleaded as deputy mayor of our capital for an independent Amsterdam, together with her party colleague, Alderman Mrs Kukenheim. It is clear what Mrs Ollongren says about this. She says: "Whatever the Dutch citizen says, whatever the electorate says, we have no idea. D66 has been sent by God or by God. We are superior beings and do not concern ourselves with the citizen. If we do not like the election results, we will start our own country, our own state. Burger, shut your mouth." That is a fundamental anti-democratic view. Taking part in democracy requires you to resign to the majority, but this minister apparently has a knack for democracy. If she does not like the results of the elections, she is in favour of separation from the canal belt and adjacent landscaping. A fence around it, then the GroenLinks and D66-people no longer have to care about all those tockies, populists and other inferiors living outside. Nice and safe behind a fence, far away from the evil outside world. A ghetto full of scared D66 people. Ollongren says: democracy is fun, if osm wins, our kind of people; otherwise I'm gonna throw blocks and I'm out. Well, Mr President, that promises for the minister who oversees the functioning of democracy in the Netherlands. Anti-democrat 66 has taken possession of the mother department. This minister's got a lot of fun with democracy. She also has fun with the law and she also has fun with the Constitution. I refer, for example, to Article 92 of the Criminal Code and Article 93, the text of which reads as follows. I quote: 'The attempt to bring the Empire under foreign rule or to separate part of it is punished with life imprisonment or a temporary sentence of up to thirty years or a fine of the fifth category'. Or to separate a part of it! The explanation states that "the separation of a part of the Empire" controls the making of a part of the Empire's territory into an independent new empire. Mr. Chairman. This minister doesn't belong in "K." This minister belongs behind bars for 30 years. Maybe after that, she can finish her internship. Article 123 of the Constitution oversees the lifting and establishment of municipalities and provinces. Mrs Ollongren's separatist fantasies run counter to that. It is not the job of a D66 alderman or of the deputy mayor of Amsterdam to separate a part of our Kingdom, and certainly not into a politically correct state of salvation, an eldorado of children's bikes, gender-neutral toilets and unsprayed quinosalades.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have known Mr Bosma for seven and a half years. I have often had debates with him, in which he used all kinds of nonsensical lyrics with often funny phrases to make his point. Often it was a bit about the canal belt, about the elite and about the invented struggle between the people, represented by the PVV, and the elite, represented by the other parties. I've usually just listened to that without reacting to it, because I often thought it was just bullshit, which couldn't be that bad. Mr Bosma likes to play a bit of mischief in the House of Representatives. Now, however, things are going completely wrong, because he is now going to make a serious link to a sentence he wants to call on the Minister of the Interior, based on a statement she has made in the past in another position. It doesn't make any sense. It's not serious either. It's mixing comedy with a serious political proposition he's making here. I ask Mr Bosma to stop all the rhetoric around this now. I ask him what he really wants with this proposal. Then the Chamber can judge that directly, because this goes far too far. Otherwise he will have to stop and just start talking about the content of the Home Affairs budget. So make a choice what you want, but not always that weird mixture of things: on the one hand funny and funny words and on the other hand very far-reaching proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm just sticking to the facts. I read what Mrs Ollongren said in the Stadsschouwburg in Amsterdam. That wasn't a slip of the tongue. That was in an important speech, in the New Year's speech in the Stadsschouwburg, where the entire summit of Amsterdam, all senior officials and all people from all kinds of social groups come together. People are congratulating each other. It's nice. It is the Christmas spirit: peace on earth and good pleasure in people. Mrs Ollongren then goes against the second party of the Netherlands and states that when my party comes to power, there will be no humanity and no civilisation. That's a hell of a attack. Mrs Ollongren compared this with a proposal she made several times, namely that Amsterdam should separate itself from the Kingdom of the Netherlands. If there's anything else of legal standing in your pitiful little party, Mr Verhoeven, you're gonna step away from that. Hans van Mierlo did not walk on those canals at the time. He did not set up the party to separate part of the Kingdom. It is fundamentally antidemocratic to say, as Mrs Ollongren did in the Stadsschouwburg, that if we do not like the results of elections, then we will no longer participate and then we will be separated. Every MP should agree with me. If you're a little democrat, Mr Verhoeven, you agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	We also discussed this extensively last year during a treatment of, I believe, the Black Piet Act of the PVV. At that time Mr Bosma also confronted me with this quote. Then I replied to him and I will do so again now that the categorization of groups of people in this society, the discriminatory expression of politics, is something the PVV repeatedly does and that D66, since the PVV is active here and in this way constantly excluding certain groups of people, will always oppose it. I also explained at that time that Mrs Ollongren's statement must be placed in that context and I also said that D66 will never allow discriminatory politics and categorical exclusion of people such as the PVV repeatedly. I said at that time that we will never work with that and that is why I wholeheartedly support Mrs Ollongren's comment. And Mr Bosma, who is always of rhetoric, should know that such a speech should never be linked to a prison sentence of 30 years. It doesn't make any sense. I hope that Mr Bosma will stop this now, because he knows that he has taken a path that is deadly. He does that every time. And he'll get away with it, too, but as far as I'm concerned, not today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	The law is clear. There's just 30 years in prison if you work to separate a part of the Kingdom. Mrs Ollongren has argued for this over and over again. I can't help it if that article of law exists. You can just find out for yourself. I've got it all here. I'll be happy to give it to you later. It's a big deal. Mr Verhoeven talks about the categorization of population groups. Well, that's exactly what D66 does by Mrs. Ollongren's mouth. If you say that when my party comes to power, there will be no more culture, no more humanity and no more civilization, then you say that PVV's have no humanity, that we are therefore lesser people, some kind of subhumans. If you say that we have no civilisation, we are obviously not the osm-club Mr Verhoeven is so committed to. Those are serious allegations. I'm fine with all that. If the deputy mayor does that at such a time, during such an important speech in the Stadsschouwburg, where the entire summit of Amsterdam is present, I am fine with that. But it comes up with a proposal that is simply criminal and that is also contrary to the Constitution. Article 123 states that it is not up to a deputy mayor, or people with other separatist fantasies, to separate part of the Kingdom. That is contrary to the Constitution and is punishable by Article 23. Sorry, article 93.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Verhoeven, if I give you a third opportunity to interrupt, I will have to do so for everyone, while the first time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	I think it would be wise to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	I'm not finished yet. The first deadline is scheduled to run until 2.15 p.m., but a lunch break is required. I give you the floor now, but I do not think it should become a habit in this debate for you to come back afterwards. I'm 45 minutes ahead, tops. Of course, I cannot pass this debate on to my successor in 45 minutes. Mr Verhoeven, your third and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	Madam President, I do not think that lunchtime is the most important issue at the moment. The most important point is that there is a Member here who thinks or thinks seriously that he can arrange a 30-year prison sentence for the minister from the cathedral. So I'm very curious. I will indeed be the last to ask Mr Bosma on this point. But if I don't, I'm gonna make an order proposal. I would like to know from Mr Bosma what he intends to do with this proposal. I want him to indicate a concrete form instead of making a little call in a way that goes way beyond a joke. So either come up with a political proposal that we can deal with in the short term, because this goes a long way. I don't care if you don't stop talking about it. Mr. Chairman. You could also think about a comment to the speaker there, because I wonder if it would be wise to start talking about the lunch break to the person who causes the interruption, while a Member of Parliament is far out of line here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you. About that. We are of course here in the Lower House of the States-General. It's normal that we disagree here. I give the floor to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. I am not making a proposal at all, because it is not up to me but to the Public Prosecutor to determine whether people have committed and should be prosecuted. I note that my group leader has been able to experience a great deal of creativity from the Public Prosecutor in the case that has been brought against him. Then it's about someone saying something that's not correct. If the Public Prosecutor's Office showed one percent of all that enthusiasm and creativity in the Ollongren case, in Mrs Ollongren's statements, then the Public Prosecutor's Office has a very strong case. I think that any prosecution should not only extend to Articles 93 and 92, but a little more creative judge will find much more criminal cases in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr Verhoeven, you can make an order proposal if you wish, but you cannot continue this interruption for the fourth time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	I am making an order proposal to ensure that we find that Mr Bosma is doing nothing more than calling for some things in the House of Representatives, which is indeed free of him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	This is not an order proposal, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	If you'll let me finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	Then don't interrupt me. I want to know whether Mr Bosma does not go beyond just a text here in the Chamber, that he expresses the hope that the public prosecutor will do something about it and do nothing more than put a few words together here. Can I sum it up like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Verhoeven, this is not an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u21	Let me get that straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u22	But that's not an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u23	I want to make that clear in the context of Mr Bosma's text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u24	This is not an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u25	My point of order is that I want to know whether Mr Bosma wants to do more than just hope that the State will prosecute the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. I have no hope that the D.A. will take action on this. Mr. Chairman. This minister is driven by blind hatred...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u27	So it's for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr Verhoeven, I did not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u29	I was forced to take it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u30	No, you weren't. I did not give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u31	Well. You are not leading this sitting in a balanced manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u33	So it was for the stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u34	Mr Van der Molen also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. I am a newcomer in this Chamber, so I was looking forward to hearing Mr Bosma speak. I always hear big stories about that, but I think this is really a small action by yelling at us in the debate as wide as possible If you had been a guy, you'd walk out the front door, you'd report yourself to the police and you'd report it. That leaves you with it, so I just find it very easy. Shouldn't you just get out there through that door and just do what you're saying here? That would really put some shit on the dike, instead of actually having those little chat stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u36	It's not a chat story. You should be concerned about the democracy of the Netherlands and about the things someone said a few weeks ago who became responsible for the functioning of democracy in the Netherlands. I believe in the parliamentary debate, I am an elected representative of the people, I am conducting the debate here. We don't need police, that's the CDA culture. The CDA culture was always "we rule this country." I have no hope that the D.A.'s office will do anything about this. And so there's no point in walking to the police either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Bosma talks about the CDA culture in the past tense. That's right, that culture is history. I stand here as someone from 1980, in that year I was born in which the CDA was founded, so I don't feel touched by that. Let me remind you of the inconsistency of what you are doing, because this is a bit easy. If you were a real guy and you had a really big problem, you'd have reported it. In fact, you would have done so long after Mrs Ollongren had spoken those words in the past. You have failed to do so, and that is simply forsaking your duty as a citizen, not just as a parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u38	Once again, I believe in the parliamentary debate and I do not believe in running to the police. We're here to represent the people, to control the government. The culture of declaration, that is precisely what we have to stop, because we have seen where that leads in the criminal case against my group leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u39	For the last time, Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u40	Yes, Mr President, the third time, indeed the last time. Then I'll just find that these are easy talk, and they're just talk that's not just being said. For if there is a Member here who says that a ruler should disappear behind bars, then I really think you should be so big as to really follow up on that. Otherwise, it's just gonna be too easy and everyone's gonna see that, even outside this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u41	It would be better if the CDA had dealt with the case, as I put it, and the statements I raise with regard to the territorial integrity of the Kingdom and how it is commented on in the Code of Conduct. That's very negative. Too bad the CDA doesn't go into that and that the party that carries on the roots of Abraham Kuyper apparently accepts all of this and then starts hitting me a little bit. But it's okay with me. Perhaps Mr Kuzu will make a better contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr Öztürk from DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u43	Of course. Mr Öztürk, excuse me. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. If even a new Member of Parliament brings down an experienced Member of Parliament like Bosma, that means that he is not well prepared. I expected a little more content, strength and body. He literally says, "Be a man, Mr. Bosma, go report it or shut up." That's what he says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u45	No, he doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u46	I ask you to act accordingly. You are undermining our parliamentary democracy. You tell a minister she's behind bars. Then two things can happen in the Chamber. The chairman knows that, too. Either you file a motion of censure or you keep quiet. One of the two, Mr. Bosma. No games here. We want a proper debate today. I believe that the President can address Mr Bosma to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr Öztürk's only contribution is to repeat the CDA's contribution. He does, however, put a harsh word in his mouth to the new colleague. I find that a little disappointing. I said what I said. It is a matter of parliamentary democracy. I believe in that. I simply note that the Code of Criminal Law says a few things about Mrs Ollongren's separatist fantasies. I also say that this is a very bad omen for this Minister's democratic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u48	Again, weak. It is also a bad example for the new Members of Parliament among us. I assume that Mr Bosma will now continue with the other points in his speech and that we will be able to close this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you. Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u50	Mr. Chairman. This minister is apparently driven by a blind hatred of the second party of the Netherlands. It goes so far as to say things that go against the Constitution and things that go against the spirit of democracy. This deputy mayor, of all people, will become the Minister of Constitutional Affairs, the guardian of our democracy. In Amsterdam, police commissioner Aalbersberg collected signatures in the process concerning my group leader. He called on people in mosques to take action against a democratically elected politician. People had to sign autographs for something they totally didn't understand. A tough mocro war is going on in Amsterdam. The city has one of the lowest resolution rates in the whole of the Netherlands. Crime goes through the roof. You'd say the Amsterdam college says, "Police Commissioner, go catch bad guys." But no, Mr Aalbersberg is going to collect signatures. Right after that action, Mrs. Ollongren became deputy mayor. She never wanted to fix this. I think that's weird. Meanwhile, the same police are now ordered not to take a picture with Black Piet, because that violates the police's neutrality. And Mrs. Ollongren had even more big plans with the police. She wants the headscarf for cops. Our neutral police must bear a symbol of Islamic conquest. She says, "That hate towel fits all of us." The flag of the jihad on the head of our agents. Don't even think about it. How can we trust our minister with the security and security services of the Netherlands if she is so sympathetic to Islam? Mrs Ollongren has come under the spell of a kind of prayer healer, a kind of Greet Hofmans, Mr Kenning, also referred to as Mr Denial, with the entire city council of Amsterdam. It tells the politically correct municipal government exactly what it wants to hear about Islam, namely that Islam has nothing to do with Islam or anything like that. Something other than that all those jihadists didn't commit the jihad because of the jihad, but because they got estranged. They're pathetic boys. How did loco Ollongren handle that jihad? Well, with sneaky movies, a gray campaign that had to be made in the deepest secret. I didn't want anyone to know who the makers of those videos were. That way jihadgoers had to be held off from the jihad. Mrs. Ollongren is a producer of fake news. One more example. Under Ollongren, police officers have to drop all the work from their hands when it becomes Ramadan, because then the entire police force of our capital will be directed to mosques and other Islamic shelters to celebrate the itar there. In this way, the police must become popular with a group which apparently deserves special attention and needs to be pampered. The police under Ollongren don't do that to Jehovahs, crookers or Buddhists. Last Saturday evening we were allowed to reap the wretched fruits of all that crawling and bent: hordes of Moroccan scum pulling through the streets, bystanders molesting, throwing fireworks at the same police and surrounding our officers. It produced intensely frightening images. And no one was arrested; no one! Our police are so indoctrinated that she understands herself that she's being pelted with fireworks. That's part of the job, because it's a party. Mr President, I do not know what shocked me more, the Moroccan fury or the reaction of the police to it. The police who have been led for years by the city council of Amsterdam with Mrs Ollongren in it. Always bowing and crawling before Islam and its followers, hoping that they will forget the commands of Islam. Ignorance at the top. And especially that Mrs. Ollongren is about our secret service, the AIVD. That's our last line of defense against the advancing Islam, which after 1,400 years of jihad is getting steamy. And that Islam is now led by someone who says, well... Sorry, and that secret service is now led by someone who says, "Well, Islam is not a problem; Mr. Disknowledge has told us himself." And as far as Muslims can be a problem, it's because they're pathetic and lonely, and we solve that with some sneaky movies on the Internet. Mr President, we are at the mercy of the gods. In Amsterdam, Sinterklaas no longer has a Christian cross on his miter, because that hurts Muslims. In Amsterdam, the Christmas market can no longer be called a Christmas market. In Amsterdam, our dear Zwarte Piet has been systematically destroyed by the politically correct municipal government. Traditions of Muslims, on the other hand, are celebrated exuberantly, see the Iftar with police supervision. This makes it clear who the government in Amsterdam is committed to. The city council of Amsterdam, including Ms Ollongren, designates PVV's as racists. That is the connection Mrs Ollongren is seeking towards the second party of the Netherlands and one and a half million voters. The city council, including Mrs Ollongren, also says literally, I quote: 'however asylum seekers, the better', and Mrs Ollongren is not the only one who is loco. Amsterdam cries where it once laughed. Mr President, we are already a long way off with our internship report, with only insufficient so far. Democracy: insufficient. Constitution: insufficient. Security service: insufficient. Then the fourth point, the public administration. That is incredibly important in the Netherlands. We are all dealing with municipalities and provinces and they do important work: infrastructure, spatial planning, you name it. Think of the care that lies on the sign today with the municipalities. Think about the Wmo et cetera. How did this minister deal with the public administration during her period in Amsterdam? This may give an indication of how things will be in the years to come. I would say: do not ask me, ask Mr Brenninkmeijer, our former National Ombudsman, a High College of State. Mr. Brenninkmeijer has written a report on the public administration in Amsterdam and you would expect Mrs. Ollongren, with her brilliant career in public administration, to have put her house in order in the public service of the municipality of Amsterdam. Well, Mr. Chairman, that's not true. Mr Brenninkmeijer's report on the civil service in Amsterdam is a major charge. It's destructive. I would like to mention a few things, a few cries: politicised into the capillaries; a political and administrative power struggle determines culture; that puts pressure on the normal functioning of democratic and constitutional processes; Amsterdam is an island; previous reports have not led to improvement; one does not look at one's own attitude. Mr President, once again, there is a serious deficiency. Four fat ones! But it could be worse. Yesterday Mrs Ollongren spoke to us via pages 1, 2 and 3 of De Telegraaf. Fake news would be spread. It came from Russia and that was completely in sync with the top bosses from Brussels. De Volkskrant reported the same day: Europe is worried about Russian fake news. Europe is then meant as the EU. Apparently, a campaign came from Brussels to stir up that whole fake news story. What a coincidence. It seems that Mrs Ollongren is mooring with the Brussels superintendents and therefore she was not prepared for any examples in the quickness and was somewhat stomping in front of the cameras of EenVandaag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr. Bosma, Mr. Verhoeven has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u52	Can I just finish this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u54	What do you mean, people have been influenced by any news in their election choices? What does that tell you? What news has changed people's minds, which may have changed the outcome? I don't know, I don't see it. There is no example of it. We're looking at the AIVD. When I read on the front page of De Telegraaf yesterday that Russia influenced the elections in the Netherlands with fake news, I thought: hey, we have never heard of them. Then you're going to browse the old annual reports. In the annual report AIVD 2016 in the summary note bene of the NOS, not of me, I see: "The AIVD has found no hard evidence that Russia has also tried to influence the elections." That's kind of weird, isn't it? So in 2016 the AIVD says: no, Russia has not tried to influence the elections in the Netherlands. And yesterday, the Minister says exactly the opposite. What's going on out there? I think that's kind of weird. The Minister is coming up with a statement that I don't think is very credible. She says: I can't give examples because then I give insight into how the AIVD works. That's weird, isn't it? The essence of news that influences the elections is that it is public and that everyone has taken that news or has been able to take it. That doesn't give any insight into the AIVD's working methods, does it? The minister mumbled something about a Russian website that would look a lot like a Dutch website and would have influenced us, but no one has ever heard of that website. No reporter, no Twitterer, no Facebook user, no one knows that website. I would like to hear what the web address of that website is, what that website looks like and what it has done. It is clear how this campaign is going to end, because it is a campaign, see yesterday's report in the Volkskrant on Brussels, where it all comes from, namely to restrict our freedoms. The multicultural state of salvation will look a lot like Orwell's fantasies. 'Cause what's fake news? I am going to ask Mr Verhoeven that when I interrupt him. Come up with a definition of fake news. I think fake news is everything that's not politically correct. Last night I received a report from Berlin about the Facebook site Presse Steinhöfel, which lists all the fake news. Actually, everything that's not politically correct has become fake news. This morning, WNL reported...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Bosma, do you have room for an interruption by Mr. Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yes, but I'd like to finish this point, Mr. Chairman. I see Mr Verhoeven; I'll be ready in a minute. This morning, the television station WNL paid attention to fake news. And how was that illustrated? With images of tweets of my fellow party members from Almere: Mr Boutkan, Mrs Raijer, Mr Toon van Dijk. They were then shown and they were said: that's fake news. That's it. That is a very dangerous situation. The minister's gonna talk to the media now. A minister who is going to talk to the media, how deep have we sunk in the Netherlands? And what right does this minister have about fake news if she is a producer of fake news? On her internship report we mention a 3. Perhaps Mr Verhoeven has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u57	What just happened illustrates the course of this debate. You are chairman and ask Mr Bosma if he has room for an interruption. Mr Bosma may then continue to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yes, I was in the middle of a point, so you should have come sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u59	At the time Mr. Bosma...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u60	That's very common, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u61	Yes, then you must come early, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u62	I don't know which one of you is the chairman now. That's a little unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'll talk to you, because you're talking nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u64	Is it you or is it Mr. Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Verhoeven, these are bullshit games.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u66	Well, I don't...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u67	You can just post your interruption. What question do you have to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u68	Well, it was not quite clear to me who is chairing this debate. Because you are constantly asking Mr Bosma if he has time for an interruption, Mr Bosma gives me the floor and you are a little bit involved...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr Verhoeven, you know I'm sitting here in this chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u70	I thought it was a little strange. I thought I would ask who is actually chairing the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u71	Do you actually have a question, Mr Verhoeven? 'Cause that's what you're standing here for, with all your...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u72	This debate and Mr Bosma's text also call for a sharp President, who plays her role and who takes responsibility for a good debate. I would like to point out, Mr President, on the point...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Verhoeven, ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u74	I would like to refer to Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the speaker must stick to the subject of a debate. In his first twenty minutes, Mr Bosma has only dealt with an internship report, as he himself called it very ludicrous, by the Minister for the Interior. My question would be: would you please ask Mr Bosma whether he is keeping to the subject of today's debate, rather than just talking about an internship report by a minister, for which he is not at all in a position? At the end of his speech, Mr Bosma raised a point of substance. But I would ask you, if he goes on with all sorts of things that have nothing to do with the Home Affairs budget, to take your role as President of the European Parliament very strongly and to ensure that Mr Bosma is simply sticking to the subject of the budget on the basis of Article 58 and not just firing bullshit at us. In response to Mr Bosma's question, which he is going to ask me later, what fake news really is: the last 25 minutes, that was fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u75	Mr Verhoeven, I am not talking about the content of Mr Bosma's contribution, I am not talking about the content of your contribution, I am not talking about the content of the contributions of all the other speakers. It seems to me to be a very strange situation when Presidents are going to do so. So, well, you didn't cause any interruption, you didn't ask a question, so I assume that Mr Bosma can continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u76	I have another follow-up question. You are dealing with the order of business of this debate, Mr President. The chairing of a debate is an important part of the democratic rule of law, of which Mr Bosma is full. So I hope that you will take responsibility for chairing this debate properly and strictly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That would please you. That's more important than timing lunch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u77	Sure, Chairman, uh, sure, Mr Verhoeven. But I now give the floor to Mr. Bosma, who can prosecute his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr. Chairman. I very much welcome Mr Verhoeven's comments. 'Cause if you're gonna bitch about "yes, but, that's not the subject," then you know you have a point. I expected Mr Verhoeven here to defend Mrs Ollongren's separatist remarks. I had hoped that he would help me out of the dream that if you say "we don't like the election results, we start with a new state," he would say to me: yes, but it is democratic. I have an opinion, I like to hear a fact that can be opposed. That's not gonna happen. I had hoped that Mr Verhoeven would counter the other concerns I raised about the Constitution, about the security service, about public administration. But all he's said is, yes, but it's not the subject. Of course it is the subject, we are talking about the Home Affairs budget and we have a Minister for the Interior, a new Minister for the Interior, who is starting a new period. Then it makes sense to have a look at what that lady stands for. It stands for blind hatred against the second party of the Netherlands and a lack of love for our democracy. I find that very shocking. I make that observation, and I had hoped that someone would be able to tell me: yes, but it is not. And then it's substantiated. Instead, I hear mainly people who are in the negative phase. I'm fine with it, Mr. Chairman. The question is, how is the minister going to decide what fake is? The NOS Journal once opened with a contribution of thirteen minutes in which it was told that President Trump had been put under in a hotel in Moscow. And he would resign very quickly. Then we never heard of it again, of this fake news, spread throughout the NOS. Is the editor-in-chief of the NOS going to disappear behind bars? Yeah, not as far as I'm concerned, but is the Minister going to look into that, too? Or is it only fake news if it fits in with the hate campaign against Russia, a hate campaign that is needed to tackle our freedoms and hit Russia on the drums of war. Mr. Chairman. I quoted this minister earlier when she said: away open society, away freedoms, away tolerance. That was the comment of Mrs Ollongren, a deputy mayor who is campaigning fanatically against the second party of the Netherlands, with 1.5 million voters. But today, unfortunately, we have to note that these words are mainly a preview of her programme as a minister. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u80	I have a practical question. Of course, we will not table any motions in the first term. That's the rule we use with each other. But just for my own insight on how things will be tomorrow: is Mr Bosma still considering a motion of censure on this undoubtedly relieved account? Or do I not have to take that into account tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u81	I particularly hope that the CDA Group will be relieved, and I particularly hope that the CDA Group will give some thought to what culture it has gone into and become a coalition. I'll give you a few very simple examples. It's about democracy, it's about the Constitution, it's about public administration, it's about the security services. That's not peanuts, Mr Van der Molen, it's not small business. It would be a good thing for you if the CDA, a party with a great background, back to Green from Princer and Abraham Kuyper, were to respond to the concerns that I have expressed here about the state of law, about the Constitution, about breaking the law in my humble opinion. Instead, however, you are going to complain about a motion and ask if I am going to table a motion of censure. No, because my group has already done so in the direction of this minister. You shouldn't make a habit of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u82	Mr Van der Molen, you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u83	I note that Mr Bosma does not want to press charges, despite his lamentation, and that he does not want to table a motion of censure, despite his lamentation. Was this a twenty-minute psychological session for Mr Bosma? That saves us social costs, which is nice, but it also puts quite a mortgage on this debate, and I find that very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u84	What puts a mortgage on the Netherlands is a Minister of the Interior who, in view of her earlier statements, has said a number of very dangerous things. I had hoped that the CDA, with its legal background, would give a substantive answer to that, but it does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u85	Mr Bosma has expressed his obsession with Islam for 20 minutes and now I see that he also has an obsession with the Minister. He said that in a lamentation. I assume that the PVV will also come up with content in such an important budget as that of the Interior, with proposals for the problems that the municipalities have, with something about the Municipal Fund and the things that they have described in their large party programme, that one A4's. Is he still coming up with the contents of the PVV's party program? Or does he only come in the next few years with a lamentation to the minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u86	Our Ottoman colleague wasn't paying attention. If he thinks that the Constitution is not substantive, if he thinks that the operation of the security services is not substantive, if he thinks that the functioning of our democracy, which in any case is dear to my party, is not substantive, then Mr Öztürk still has to do a little bit to find his way in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u87	I've already found my way, thank God. I've been well-chosen for the second time. My point, Mr Bosma, is that you are an experienced Member of Parliament. People are watching this debate at home and the Chamber also has a certain authority over people. Many city council members, aldermen and mayors are watching this debate and are also expecting from the PVV a piece of content and a solution to their problems. My question is then: are you prepared to say something about such matters and not just about Mrs Ollongren?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u88	I have raised a number of very fundamental issues, questions about the Constitution, about democracy, about the security services, about the quality of public administration. You are making a bit of a laugh about that, Mr Öztürk, I understand that, but that public administration is incredibly important to a lot of ordinary people in the Netherlands. You used to be in the Labour Party, and then you pretended to be worried about that in order to get a seat in the House of Representatives. But a lot of people, a lot of citizens have to deal with public administration every day. It's about infrastructure and economy and it's about the municipalities. I note, then, that you keep laughing at the fact that that public administration in Amsterdam under Mrs Ollongren has not really improved. There is a very hard report from the Ombudsman. I did not write that, Mr Brenninkmeijer, former National Ombudsman, a High College of State. It's not nothing that's in there. So I would like to point out that we are going to have a very difficult period with public administration in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u89	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u90	Weak, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u91	But I'm right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Bosma. We are now going to listen to Mr. Middendorp of the VVD. How much time do you want to use for your first term? Your total speaking time is 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u93	I think I'll keep it easy. I want to use about 10, 12 minutes of that. Madam President. It's good to be here, with that beautiful flag. After the previous speaker's report, which was rather negative about the Minister and very positive about Russian fake news, I would indeed like to talk about the BZK budget. Because whether you're in a small village or...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u94	I'd like to respond to that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u95	I've seen you, Mr. Bosma, good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u96	You're proud of me, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u97	Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u98	Just a personal fact. I'm not positive about Russian fake news at all. So don't come up with any lies here, 'cause that's not gonna make anybody any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u99	Madam President. I wanted to talk about the BZK budget. What the previous speaker didn't actually report is that whether you live in a small village or in a big city, if you go to sleep at night and you worry about your work or whether you have enough time to be with your children the next day, you want to make sure that politics is there for you. You want to make sure the government works hard for you and you understand. People want us politicians to listen carefully and do things that make their lives better and safer. They want the Internet to be safe and that you do not have to go to a window three times, but can also handle something digital. They want the government not to waste money on useless projects. "But for those who meet them on their way, these cars and motor vehicles look quite threatening in rapid travel," the NRC said in 1899. If people now look around the couch more than 100 years later in the evening, they can do so via mobile phones around the world.They see a world that is changing rapidly. The Internet has many new possibilities. Unfortunately, spreaders of fake news and terrorists also have such a mobile phone and so do the world under their keyboard. That's a terrifying thought, because people want the government to do everything they can to keep them safe, including on the Internet. This is true in the fight against the great evil, but also in daily contact. If you make tax returns by internet, you want to be able to trust that your personal data is safe. People are increasingly communicating in bits and bytes. The VVD wants a powerful government that responds to this. Madam President. What goes physically between the government and the Dutch must be digital, safe, understandable and cheap in the future. This requires clear and accessible language and applications. The Ombudsman again showed it to mygovernment.nl and the Tax Administration: digitisation only works if it is done in a way that is understandable to people. The Dutch understandable language and applications are therefore, according to the VVD, the start and end of a powerful digital government. People who can't go digital should also have the opportunity to communicate with the government in the old way. Madam President. Unfortunately, I cannot escape saying something here about the population register. The project to modernise this stopped in July after fourteen years without any results. No matter how you look at that, it's been a disaster we'll be talking about for a long time. Since July we don't seem to have made much progress with the BRP. There's gonna be a committee that's gonna look back. That's painful, but it's okay. The lessons we can learn from this are important for the future. Precisely the future, that's what the VVD is about. The VVD therefore wants a rapid plan and a timetable for the modernisation of the BRP. It may be that the development of the existing basic administration is sufficient. Finally, I would like to ask the government how it sees the future role of the ICT Agency. Madam President. Where government and private sector touch, it is also exciting in the digital world. If the government drops holes on the internet in public tasks, we have to pay close attention. The big Internet companies could just fill it out. In any case, we must avoid making it easier to access personal data that are now registered by the government via Google rather than via the government itself. The electronic identity card is an important example of this. In doing so, a smart and powerful government must clearly determine its position vis-à-vis the private sector. I therefore ask the government how it is going to implement the government agreement on this issue and how they are going to develop the choice between products and services themselves or allow market players to do so, to make it sharper, faster and, above all, tighter. But beware: if you don't develop something yourself, it doesn't just get easier. As a government, you must have knowledge and skills to purchase products and services. Madam President. We were just talking about the Minister's announcement that they are talking to media and internet companies like Google and Facebook to tackle foreign powers that spread fake news and can infiltrate our democratic process. The VVD supports that, because the people in the country are very worried about fake news and attacks like WannaCry. The latter only laid down parking garages in our country, but that could be much worse. For the VVD it is clear that we need to make our vital infrastructure resilient against digital attacks from within and outside the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u100	I hear the VVD colleague speaking fine words. He's talking about a powerful government, a sharp government, a government that stands next to people and, in my own words, makes life better for people. Can the honourable member of the VVD reflect on the fact that the VVD and the coalition agreement are still breathing that we should, above all, go for a small government? Does that fit in with a movement where we see that the market cannot do everything and that sometimes more and smarter supervision of the same government is needed to ensure that the interests of all of us are well protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u101	The VVD believes that the government should operate vigorously and monitor where necessary, but that does not say anything about whether it should be large or small. In any case, the government must be sober.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mrs. Chicken, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u103	Then unfortunately we are back to the mantra we always belong to: sober and small. At the same time, we see that the government is made up of police officers and regulators looking at our food safety, looking at whether our medicines are working properly and whether our infrastructure is being built up. Shouldn't we get rid of the old mantra that we think the market should do everything instead of having a powerful government that represents the interests of all of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u104	I wouldn't use the word "unfortunately" because I'm still in favour of a powerful, small and sober government. One doesn't exclude the other either, because for the VVD it's very important that the government makes a sharp decision about what it does and what it doesn't do. It's okay not to do anything. Sometimes you have to monitor whether things are going well in the private sector; we are all agreed on that. But just that powerful decision not to do something and buy it in also requires a lot of knowledge and skill. That's what the government has to do. It must make up for that choice and then ensure that the structure it chooses is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u105	The questions must be brief and so must the answers. Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u106	Yeah, I'm rounding up. I don't think that mantra can go on. You can't say: I want more expertise, I want to avoid the failure of the government, I want better supervision... we have seen the catastrophes in recent years.. and insist that it can be done with a smaller government that you pay less for. We will continue the debate with the Minister, but one cannot go hand in hand with the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u107	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm gonna make it really, really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u109	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mr Middendorp, you are in favour of a small government, but in recent times a lot of expertise has gone away from the government. What we see is that these people come back through all kinds of consultant combinations and constructions and really make a lot of money. Is that the government you want, with all the community money being spent on commercial parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u111	No, I said that I am for a small and powerful government that is sober and that that government with knowledge and skill must decide what it does and what it does not do. If she doesn't do something, it doesn't mean she lets it go completely, but then she makes sure that the intention she had with something is carried out properly. This means, as I have just said, that knowledge and skills are bought into what has just been called the 'commercial market'. That can be done, and if you do that well, it will make everyone in the Netherlands better. That is what it is all about, because we need to ensure that the money we get in the form of people's taxes is well spent. There are best people who do not work in the government and who can deliver something very good to the government and the people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u112	Well, you don't really succeed in that, because external hire increases in percentages. We also see that people earn even more than the minister. That's unacceptable, but you accept that. You're just throwing the community money over the bar to all those expensive consultants. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u113	On the first point, I think that the government should hire sober and critical, with knowledge and skills, on the external market. On the second point: yes, I accept that there are people who deserve more than a minister. That's actually the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u114	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u115	Yeah, that was a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u116	Very good; at least it was short. I am not talking about the content; I am not making a statement about it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u117	Where the government and the private sector touch, it is also exciting in the digital world. If the government drops holes on the internet... Excuse me, this was gonna be a long time. I want to talk about WannaCry. The VVD supports yesterday's Minister's call to watch fake news. People are really worried about fake news and these kinds of attacks, like WannaCry. That only laid down parking garages in our country, but it could be much worse. BZK needs to work on digitalisation at a much higher rate. In doing so, it will also have to break the existing interests of established parties within the government and ICT suppliers and sometimes do-it-yourself culture. The VVD hopes that the government will face that challenge. In a complex organisation, a good ICT strategy also involves coordination and fair and efficient charging. If large implementation organisations do not want to pay or do not want to participate, the people in the Netherlands will not benefit from digitalisation. So I would like to ask how the government sees the role of BZK in this coordination, what the plan is to do to bring together digital forces within the government and what the role and tasks of the Digi Commissioner will be in this. Digitisation is a test case for the state service for the next few years. For the VVD, attracting ICT employees and ensuring ICT knowledge and knowledge is a priority. That also brings me to the rewards in the public sector. In addition, public money needs to be publicly accounted for and public affairs do not involve excessive rewards. At the same time, we must be able to attract specialists, especially for ICT. At the same time, the laws we make here must be enforceable. I would therefore ask the Minister to look closely at the reports on higher costs in the care sector for registering very small amounts. It is therefore a good thing that the current Law standards top incomes are evaluated. I like to hear how and when that's gonna happen. The VVD stands for a strong and vital government, national and local. Our public administration has a lot to gain from digitalisation. This will increase the opportunities for participation and dialogue in our representative democracy. People can expect something from politicians: ideas, working for the Netherlands with heart and soul, and taking into account the difficult considerations that this sometimes entails when making laws. Dialogue with the electorate is very important for politicians. Laws have been very helpful in internet consultation, and digitalization offers many new opportunities. I am very curious to hear the views of the Secretary of State and the Minister on this. In the end, we are all here to do the right thing: to make laws that make the Netherlands stronger and safer. The world is changing and building a path is really something other than making a plan for a new ICT system. It's always about people, considerations and implementation; so it's not always starting over and over again on a big project or a new vision, but decisively with small steps and self-learning ability. Above all, we must always ask ourselves: what good is that for the Dutch? Then, Madam President, we will make the Netherlands stronger and safer, also on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u118	The VVD used to be a liberal party. Now it wants ministers to get in touch with the media. Is that the VVD spirit? How far does that have to go? I mentioned in my contribution as an example that the NOS Journal once opened with the story that Trump would have done all kinds of erotic conditions in Moscow and would therefore resign very quickly, but that turned out to be nonsense. We never heard from that again. Does the VVD, who apparently wants to knit the press, think that the NOS Journal or any medium, should be addressed when fake news is presented? How far does that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u119	The VVD is still a liberal party. Absolutely. We do not mind the fact that ministers are in contact with the media, but I understand what the question is. To answer that: I think anyone who distributes fake news should be addressed. We have seen this in the previous contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u120	"I think anyone who distributes fake news should be addressed." Two sentences for this, the colleague says that he belongs to a liberal party. Mr President, who is going to talk to people who spread fake news? That's a very simple question. Is that a task of the government? Who decides what fake news is? Do you have any feeling that a Pandora box will be opened when the state decides what fake news is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u121	The question you are asking is going into a very different street. If anyone says anything to me that I think is fake news, I'll talk to the guy on it. So, it's called a conversation, a dialogue. On this particular point, I believe indeed, we strongly support the cabinet in talking to media companies to see how to assess and prevent this danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u122	Finally, Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u123	With media companies. How far does that go? If newspaper X or Y publishes something that doesn't add up, so it's just fake... is the editor-in-chief of the Volkskrant or any newspaper going to get a call from the minister? How am I supposed to handle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u124	I refer, for the most part, to the previous answers, but I have also read the letter and it says that the Minister is talking. We very much support that. I think it is very complicated to come here with Mr Bosma to see how this discussion should go. That is a measure of control which I would not wish to express in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u126	I think I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u127	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u128	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u129	I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, for the first time, we are discussing one of the most important issues with this Minister and the Secretary of State, namely the next year's budget. From this point on, I wish the Minister and the Secretary of State every success in the coming period. I hope we will have a pleasant cooperation. Last week it was decided that the new parts of this Ministry, Living and Spatial Planning, will be discussed at a later stage in a legislative consultation. I will therefore now focus on the BZK part of this budget. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is working hard for an inclusive society. I would like to make my contribution to budgetary treatment from the perspective of an inclusive government. This means an accessible, transparent and diverse government. For an accessible government, it is important that the government is accessible to all its citizens. This means that all citizens, regardless of their limitations, must be able to participate in society. This means, for example, that buildings, the electoral process and ICT are accessible to all citizens. I am curious to see the ambitions of the Minister and the Secretary of State in these areas. How are they going to make the public sector even more accessible? I have a specific question on the consideration of the motion tabled by my colleague, Mr Voortman, to the budget last year, on the accessibility of state buildings for people with disabilities. What's going on with that? And then the transparency of the government. An inclusive government should be as transparent as possible. According to GroenLinks, this means that citizens should be able to understand on the basis of what information by whom which decisions are taken. From the coalition agreement we understand that the Minister will soon come into contact with the proposers of GroenLinks and D66 of the Open Government Act. We hope that this will be the subject of a constructive discussion. Mr. Chairman. A transparent government also means that citizens are really involved in decision-making, both at national and local level. We want much more work to be done on involving citizens in policy. That is why we do not want the consultative referendum to become the child to be thrown away with the bath water after the end of the corrective referendum. Instead of abolishing it, I would say further development. My group sees sufficient opportunities for this, for example by working with a threshold of outcome, but also by asking several questions. Mr. Chairman. If the consultative referendum is indeed abolished, the Netherlands, alongside the GDR, will soon be the only country in the world to abolish the referendum after it has been introduced. Further development, I would say, because in addition to elections, the referendum is the only fully-fledged instrument at national level that allows citizens to express their views.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u131	That's right. The Netherlands will, if it all goes on, be the first country, after the GDR in the 1960s, which abolishes a democratic right, the referendum. We'll get "DDR66" here in the Chamber. I would remind GroenLinks that we are also the only country in the world that has passed a law for a truly binding referendum, after which parties, including GroenLinks, were no longer prepared to defend the same law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u132	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u133	I have to tell you, I don't mind any less. I wonder what Mrs Özütok thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u134	I believe that we have discussed this issue in detail here. The correct referendum is a constitutional change. I explained why we didn't want to go through with it anymore. As far as we are concerned, it is very important that we develop the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u135	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u136	I would also like to hear from the Minister what steps and what deadlines we can expect when it comes to abolishing the referendum. Furthermore, like the government, we want democracy to be improved at local level and municipalities to have maximum experimental space to develop a form of civic participation. The previous Minister for the Interior was of good will, but in concrete terms, unfortunately, little has come of more citizen involvement in policy and decision-making. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that something concrete is going to happen? What can we pay for this cabinet at the end of the period? We want active citizens, who work together to improve their living environment and make the Netherlands even more beautiful and better, to have the necessary facilities and support. I am thinking, for example, of a ministerial arrangement which basically guarantees a number of guarantees for proper participation and the right of initiative. How does the Minister view this? What concrete actions can we expect from this minister in this area? Mr. Chairman. There has been much to do recently about decentralisation. There are differences between regions and municipalities in the provision of services. Gradually it becomes apparent that the provision of services can vary considerably, between 20% and 30%. It shouldn't matter which town you live in as a caregiver, as long as you get the care you need. How does the Minister ensure that there are no huge differences between municipalities? Another point in the area of transparency, which my group believes is still necessary to improve, concerns the common rules and the local audit offices. Many of these arrangements are governed without effective and transparent democratic control. This is often because city council members have insufficient insight into the flows of money and decision-making in common regulations. It is precisely because of the large decentralisations of recent years that a great deal of Community money passes through the common arrangements without proper democratic control. I'd like to hear from the Minister if she recognizes this. What specific plans does she have to deal with this? People's representatives and citizens need high-quality, transparent government support from a Court of Auditors to assess whether all funds are being spent effectively. My group would like to hear from the Minister what the state of the various audit chambers is. Then there's the government, Mr. Chairman. An inclusive government is also a diverse government. This means that the government ensures that anyone in the Netherlands who complies with the law can feel at home here. In concrete terms, this means that the government ensures that human rights are properly protected so that everyone can be themselves in our country. I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at human rights in the Netherlands. The United Nations has recently examined our country and identified many points for improvement. How does the Minister see that? What are her specific ambitions in this respect? One concern in this area is the fact that semi-public institutions that take over public tasks are not sufficiently bound, for example, by the European Fundamental Rights Charter. How does the Minister see this? How will it ensure that, even when tasks are carried out by semi-public institutions, citizens' rights are fully protected? Mr. Chairman. A different government also means that the government is represented everywhere in the country. For a long time there have been many concerns about the facilities in shrinking regions. What are the cabinet's ambitions in terms of shrinkage? How is it prevented from disappearing in certain areas important facilities to ensure viability? Last but not least on this point, I go into the personnel policy of the government. Cabinet-Rutte I has deleted diversity objectives. What ambitions does Rutte III have for a diverse workforce? I'd like a response from the rulers. How can we avoid merely talking about diversity in general, but at the end of this cabinet period we have to see that there has been very little of these fine words? Finally, Mr President, I would like to make a few individual points which I would like to highlight. The previous cabinet has not sent the WNT3, on top incomes, to the Chamber anymore. That bill would extend the scope of the law. I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at the high remuneration in the public sector. I would also like to receive a response from the Minister to the fact that there are still very many outsiders employed by both the government and the local authorities. Recently, former Secretary of State Dijksma indicated that there is too little expertise and expertise. There is an outflow of expert staff and hire of expertise through consultants. What does the Minister think about this? How does it intend to deal with this problem? Mr. Chairman. The previous minister would have a further discussion on the budgets for the General Court and the National Ombudsman. I would like to take stock of what has been said in this debate. I would also like to comment on the Minister's letter on disinformation and falsified websites. What concrete measures can we expect from this Minister in this area? I know it is still early, but I would like to hear a little more from this Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. As I indicated at the beginning of my speech, I look forward to a pleasant cooperation with these rulers. I hope that the Prime Minister's outstretched hand in the debate on the declaration of government towards the opposition will also be supported by these rulers so that we can work constructively towards a more inclusive government and society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr President. We are not only at the beginning of the debate on the Home Affairs budget, but also at the beginning of the work of these two new directors. The previous cabinet made a false start on Home Affairs: provinces and small municipalities should be dissolved according to the current government agreement. Because of that position, the BZK and the co-governments weren't really doing well anymore. As far as the CDA is concerned, today we have the opportunity to change course with the new coalition agreement. A course that strengthens local government in democracy. That is urgently needed. In addition, there are major challenges to the resilience of our democracy, cross-border cooperation and digitalisation. I will come back to that later in my contribution. I wish the directors good luck in advance in their important work and in answering my questions. Several municipal reclassification elections will take place next week. Next year the rest of the Netherlands will follow. Local democracy and the position of municipalities have been under pressure for some time now. The integrity of local government is rightly given a great deal of attention, but the vulnerability is increasing. The CDA Group welcomes the passage in the government agreement that members of municipal councils and provincial states are better prepared, trained and equipped. We ask the Minister what her ambition is on this point and whether she wants to speed up, because the elections are coming. The question is also what else is needed. With training and training, we are far from there. How does the Minister include the Chamber in her approach? The cabinet is investing heavily in our security. We see this in the financial strengthening of the AIVD, but this also includes strengthening the powers to keep us safe and to prevent foreign influence on our democracy. As a CDA, we call for attention to the influence of state actors, i.e. abroad. It rains international examples of how Russian influence, among other things, spreads through social media. One deliberately throws oil on the fire when social unrest arises. There is enough evidence that the Netherlands is not immune to this. That's also what the AIVD concludes. As a CDA, we are in favour of getting to the bottom of this influence through social media. The time that we can be naive in this area is definitely over. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. It is also up to us as a chamber to interfere with this. It is for this reason that we, together with D66, will take the initiative to organise a hearing as a Chamber in order to speak to the parties that can play a role in this. In addition, the CDA Group is looking forward to the state of play of the proposal adopted in the Chamber on the foreign financing of political parties. I'd like an update from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The forthcoming municipal elections are the first elections in which residents can vote on care. With the decentralisations, municipalities have done a huge job. At the same time, as a result of decentralisation, dozens of municipalities are in severe financial difficulties. We're not there yet. In the opinion of the CDA Group, the former minister has neglected his role as a coordinating director for decentralisation. It is important that the new minister makes more work of Article 116 of the Community Act, and thus also slows down, redirects or encourages its fellow ministers if this is in the interests of the municipalities. We ask the Minister what her mission is on this point. And we ask her to inform the Chamber how the flag is currently attached to the municipalities. The fight against discrimination is an important policy area. Combating discrimination is an important condition for promoting integration and coexistence. The previous Minister sent the National Action Programme against Discrimination to the Chamber in 2016. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a coordinating role in the fight against discrimination. It was a good plan, but the CDA Group has missed the coordinating and inspiring role that the Minister of Foreign Affairs should play in it over the past few years. Can the new Minister explain how she intends to coordinate this important policy area? Mr. Chairman. In the village of Beard in my province of Fryslân, pub boss Jaap Prins has now taken over the bridge service of the province. In many urban areas in our country, residential businesses are set up, greenery is maintained by residents or volunteers have taken care of the local swimming pool. Some governments see that this is the future, but other municipalities are at odds if residents want to undertake themselves. As a CDA, we believe in the power of society. Democracy is more than elections, it is also contributing to your local society. But then you have to be made possible by the government. We are very pleased that the coalition agreement provides for a right to challenge, but also for the possibility of taking over social services through experiments. This changes the relationship between citizens and government in a positive way as far as we are concerned. We understand that when we take over social services, we first see what can be done. But at a 'right to challenge', we really expect the Minister to come up with legislation that lays down the rights of residents or groups vis-à-vis the government. The question to the Minister is how she will work this out and at what time. Other governments, such as the provinces and water boards, should also be able to participate. Does the Minister want to take a positive look at this? Like the municipality, the government faces major challenges in terms of digitalisation. Recently, it appeared that the municipalities still have a long way to go to digitize their services, but much has also been said in their own homes about the failure of ICT policy, referring to the findings of the Elias Commission. Nevertheless, the coalition agreement has renewed ambitions in this area, and rightly so. The review of Basic Registration Persons is being examined by the previous Minister and modernisation is about to take place. But there are more challenges, such as the Laan of the Environment, to make the big Environmental Law possible. In the past, the General Court of Auditors and the National Audit Service concluded that Home Affairs did not take up its coordinating role sufficiently. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, this means using the power of perseverance of the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State indicate how far this perseverance power reaches and how he intends to use it in practice to make the necessary meters? Also to align in the approach of the Empire to grow with the information society. The fact is that not everyone can participate in digitalization. Systems are there to serve people, not the other way around. Older people, but also low-literate people, sometimes have a hard time with that. How is the Secretary of State going to make sure that there is always an alternative to digital services? The coalition agreement only states by post. Can this also remain possible in the future in person, such as orally, by telephone or via a point of contact? How does the State Secretary look at the progress made by municipalities to fully digitise their services in 2017? According to research commissioned by BNR, that's rather disappointing. How voluntarily does the cabinet want to continue to deal with the co-governments in the area of digitisation and information security? As a CDA group, we attach great importance to the issue of cross-border cooperation. Seven provinces in our country are border provinces and employment, security and entrepreneurial spirit have no borders. The Secretary of State has already indicated that he wants to work on this. At the beginning of this year, the Huizing Committee has appointed several action points on that section. We understand that its implementation lies with Social Affairs, but can the Secretary of State give an update on the state of these action points and make it clear how he intends to take the lead in this matter in the coming years? Finally, an urgent matter with regard to the National Service. The National Real Estate Company rents a lot of agricultural land. This is increasingly being done in short leases to maximise revenue for the Treasury. The CDA would like agricultural land to be leased to local farmers or young farmers for a longer period of time in order to provide more certainty for farmers and for sustainable land use. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that sustainable soil management should play an important role in the state spawning policy? Is he willing to investigate how the Rijksvoestgoedbedrijf could spend land where sustainable soil management and continuity are an important consideration in the lease policy? And here's another thing. We understand from reports that a major mistake was made last week in the auction of the rental land in the IJsselmeerpolders. One hour before the auction was closed, the highest bid was announced, after which other interested parties could overbid and thus get their hands on the land. How could this have happened if this message is correct? We would like to know whether and what measures are being taken to prevent this from happening in the future and how the error can be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u139	Mr. Chairman. The new minister is a noble woman who loves Brabant cosiness and is known as a decent director. We need that very much. Unfortunately, as a member of the opposition, I had nothing to say about the coalition agreement, but that also applies remarkably to the minister. She was not asked to become a minister until the plans had been made. Others have reached an agreement, and it must do so. Of course, that's not fair. It is therefore a good practice that a new minister should always be allowed to delete one proposal from the agreement. I do not know if the Prime Minister has already told the Minister, but it is and I also have a suggestion. That's the referendum. Because it would be something: you are Minister for D66 and you must abolish a democratic right. You can't do that! It happened once, in the GDR in the 1960s. But we're not sitting here waiting for a DDR66, are we? I do have a question for the Minister. Can the Commission assure us that any repeal law for the referendum itself is also referendable? Here in the Chamber we have had fierce debates on the drag law, together with D66-Mr Verhoeven. Like the SP, D66 also voted against the law at the time. That drag-law function was very much cheered in the Chamber, but outside it was a lot of criticism, from our Scientific Council for Government Policy to the American FBI, to our own Council of Europe in a thick report by our own CDA member, Pieter Omtzigt. They all say that the mass retrieval of data from innocent citizens is not effective in the fight against terrorism. In March there will be a referendum on the tow law. I must say that I find the way in which the government seems to want to run this campaign disgusting. Anyone who is in favour of the referendum would be jointly responsible for terrorist attacks. Arjen Lubach coined that beautifully in the term "terrorschwalbe." This way we cannot have a debate with each other. I ask the Minister about her opinion. I also ask whether she is going to use flat propaganda or whether she is prepared to have a serious discussion about the necessity and effectiveness of the drag law. We also received a letter this morning from the Minister, stating that Russian media misreported Dutch politics. Yeah, that's not the Russians' exclusive right. That happens sometimes in the Dutch media. If there is a danger, if fake news is being spread that is dangerous, undermining our democratic process, then action must be taken. But I would like to know from the Minister whether she can give examples, otherwise they are empty words. I would also like to know from the Minister why she is constantly linking the tow law. I cannot imagine that the mass retrieval of data from innocent citizens has anything to do with a dubious website in Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u140	What does Mr Van Raak think of the example from the United States that 126 million Americans have seen Russian advertisements on Facebook?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u141	If that has affected the elections, then that is a very bad thing. If that has been a collusive development, a collusive attempt at influence by another state, then action must be taken against it. That's what secret services are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u142	Does Mr Van Raak think that if 126 million Americans, about 40 of the electorate, get advertisements on Facebook, not knowing who the sender is, while afterwards it turns out that they are funded from Russia, this could have an impact on an election result?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yes, we very much agree, but the question is not whether action should be taken against it. If it is possible, action must be taken against it. For this we have the AIVD, for which we have the secret service, for which we, together with D66, have made sure that the AIVD is not reduced by 40%, but that it is heavily invested in it. Another thing is that I hear the Minister and a number of D66s say that this is a reason we need to have a drag law. I don't quite understand. I do not quite understand the connection between the mass retrieval of information, private information from innocent citizens, and the fact that there are fake websites in Russia or that everything is claimed on Twitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u144	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr Van Raak asked for an example. I gave an example and I am glad that he takes that example seriously. I do not think that only the AIVD should act against this, but also parties like Facebook and Google. But I will say more about this in my own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u146	Yes, and then I hope that Mr Verhoeven's speech will also tell us a little more about his recent statements that the new Intelligence and Security Services Act does not include any towing function at all. In the debate on the new law on intelligence and security services, I, together with Mr Verhoeven, acted very hard...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u147	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u148	... and Mr Verhoeven did not know how quickly he had to table amendments, for example against the drag law. And now he tweets freely around that there is no drag law at all! I hope this isn't fake news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr President, this is a nice attempt to allow the debate on foreign influence to go on about the drag law, which is not a drag law. But I would like to come back to the point we were talking about. I have proposed in my contribution that we should go a long way further in order to reflect the situation of foreign influence through social media. We have also indicated that we want to conduct a hearing so that we can look into this as a Chamber. The spokesperson of D66 has indicated that Facebook and Google should also sit here at the table, to play their role...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u150	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u151	... to discuss this approach. Back up: are these points that the SP can also support? It is the actual steps we must take.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u152	Sure. Absolutely. I am certainly in favour of inviting the Google and Facebook and whatnot of this world, because when it comes to the violation of privacy, they are very big men. They know almost everything about everyone, so if the CDA agrees, if the CDA here is on the brink of privacy, we will wholeheartedly support every hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u153	Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u154	The point I make is that the CDA also says: if you are in favour of a referendum, then you are in favour of attacks, then you are in favour of the terrorists, then you are in favour of fake news, then you are in favour of Putin. Then I have to think again of the referendum on the European Constitution, where CDAs threatened to 'go to war', 'the light goes out'. So I'm also asking the CDA how they're going to run that campaign. Are we going to have a serious debate about the drag-law function or are we going to confine ourselves to flat propaganda for months?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u155	That question comes when the debate is at hand, because Mr Van der Molen has just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u156	Oh, yeah. Mr Van Raak has had the opportunity to interrupt on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u157	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u158	We're not gonna turn the tables here, but I'm really glad he's indicating on behalf of the SP, sharing the view of D66 and the CDA. And it is true: at the moment when we have an intelligence service, we can not only finance them better than what the Cabinet does; it must have real opportunities to act, and that is what the Intelligence and Security Services Act makes possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you. I suggest you continue, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u160	I see a new minister. I also see many new MPs. I also occasionally see the wonder in their eyes about the strange world here in The Hague. At the time I was very impressed with the stories of whistleblowers. People who came to report wrongdoings, but I couldn't do anything with them because those people were scared. Afraid their name would become known, afraid of the consequences for their work and for their lives. Together with MPs from other parties, I created a Wet Huis for whistleblowers, who received support from all parties here in the Chamber. That house is now in Utrecht, but unfortunately it only works halfway. The house does good work in advising and guiding whistleblowers, but it does no or hardly research into abuses and treatment. The president of that house has quit and there is now an independent investigation. The Minister will agree with me that the house must carry out all legal tasks, including investigating the handling of whistleblowers and major abuses. As the initiator of this law, I will ask the Chamber in the second term to give a ruling on this matter. In addition to the withdrawal of the referendum, there are a number of other strange things in the coalition agreement, under the heading "Government staff'. The government wants people to be treated equally in the government and in the rest of society. Working conditions for civil servants should therefore be reduced. But then I ask the Minister, what about us? What about politicians? If we become unemployed or ill, we still have better rules than all other people. Doesn't the Minister think that's weird? Moreover, I can reassure her: I am working on a law to abolish that waiting money. And I'd like to work with these regiments for that. I've got another plan for today. I saw a sharp rise in the number of ministers, from 12 to 16. That's an increase of 25%. We have more ministers now, but of course we don't have more work. That's what stayed the same. That is why I propose to reduce the ministerial salary by 25%. This has an additional advantage, as the standard for top incomes in the public sector is reduced by 25%. I'd say count out your winnings. As long as I am a Member of Parliament, I have been deeply concerned about the quality of the government. With every major change, with every new policy, with everything the government does, we see the gripping hands of expensive consultancy agencies everywhere. We see consultants who make plans, consultants who carry out plans, consultants who control the plans, externals who send sky high bills but rarely complete a project properly. The House of Representatives has previously intervened by establishing a Roemernorm. It states that no more than 10% of staff costs may be spent on expensive external personnel. Most ministries keep to that. Why doesn't the Home Office stick to that? All these difficult decentralisations and all these failed ICT projects; hundreds of millions of euros are thrown away without results. And in the coalition agreement, I now read that ministries want to hire more expensive outsiders. It may sound familiar, but I didn't see that in any of the election programs. So I ask the Minister: what lobby has put this proposal in place? And can the Minister assure the Chamber that the Roemer standard will be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u161	Mr Van Raak talks all the time not only about externals, but also about 'expensive externals'. There'll be a lot of follow-up. We know from the discussion about the BRP that a lot went wrong; that is clear. But describing the whole group in one go as "expensive outsiders with gripping hands, towering bills and not finishing anything" is perhaps a bit exaggerated. So I ask Mr Van Raak whether it is not the case that the Roemer norm is about externals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u162	Sure. And those outsiders aren't about people who were hired through a temp agency. It's about those expensive consultants and those expensive outsiders. Mr Middendorp rightly cites an example. The Municipal Basic Administration, the ICT in the police: we can mention so many examples. And each time you see that there are consultants or expensive advisors, or you may call them how you want, are hired to make plans, carry out plans and control plans. And the common thread in all these projects is: a lot of money, lots of declarations, hundreds of millions that are thrown away, but projects are not successfully completed and have to be withdrawn by the House of Representatives. It's happened to the police for the second time now. First 500 million were thrown away in 2011, and now again hundreds of millions are being thrown away. This has to do with the fact that the government is dependent on outsiders for knowledge, for skills. That means for those outsiders... Well, for them, if you don't finish a project, you can keep declaring. That's an incentive. You can also see that those outsiders, those consultants, take knowledge and networks. So they're not staying with the government. And you can also see that these consultants and advisors are also constantly working on subprojects and losing sight of the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u163	I agree with Mr Van Raak that outsiders must be able to produce something for the government and that they must therefore be hired by the government with knowledge and skills. I also just said it's not easy to hire people, because you have to be able to do something for yourself. So I share that opinion. However, I would like to ask Mr Van Raak to assume that the Roemer norm applies to outsiders who do finish something and come to do something. 'Cause of course, the government can just hire it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u164	Sure. That is why Mr Roemer has also been very generous and said that not 1% or 5% but that as much as 10% of the total staff costs can be spent on those types. Well, I think that's a lot. I think Mr. Roemer has been very generous here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u165	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u166	Then Mr Roemer has been very generous, but I would like to ask Mr Van Raak not to turn that 10% away as expensive consultants with towering bills and so on, but also to assume that they might produce something for the government. Because I share Mr Van Raak's view that the people you hire should also do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u167	Now I know the VVD as a party that says that delivery needs to be made, that work needs to be done and that, if you hire someone and there is a plan that needs to be delivered and realized. Then I find it very strange that Mr. Middendorp is now going to defend wrong consultancy agencies, which are collecting a lot of taxpayers' money. I wish we had done it with the police. If only we had trained people ourselves in 2011. If only we had made a pool of people who could organise ICT projects. We wouldn't be sitting with the fried pears right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u168	Now Mr Middendorp has to respond, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u169	I support, together with Mr Roemer, that 10% of consultants, advisers or people who are hired outside can produce something for the government. That's all I find. The other part, about the fried pears, is the words of Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u170	We are very much in agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u171	Good, then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u172	We wholeheartedly agree that the people who are hired must perform and deliver. What we now see in practice is that projects are not finished but declared.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u173	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u174	Mr. Chairman. Council elections will take place in March. In some municipalities this is going much faster and we will soon have council elections. Municipalities should be a political reflection of the local community, but that local democracy is not doing well. Municipalities are getting way too big, even for council members. Local politicians want to work with local problems. But how can this be done in municipalities that sometimes have 80 cores? Council members have lost a lot of control. Municipalities have more than 800 regional partnerships, which carry out important tasks, including in the area of care and support, but on which council members have hardly anything to say in practice. Safety is the issue of the security regions, a highly opaque and uncontrollable layer of governance. Mr. Chairman. Council members are not civil servants, who have to sit over the papers until late in the evening to see if the officials have done their job properly. Council members are representatives of the people, who stand up for the interests of the people and who must be able to do their job. I therefore ask the Minister for her vision, a plan to strengthen local democracy, a plan without consultants and without chatter, but with concrete proposals to give the council members more power and control over the government. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u175	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66. Mrs. Den Boer is having her maiden speech. As we know, a maiden speech should not be interrupted. That applies only to MPs, I say to the Minister of the Interior! Mrs Den Boer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Today, like many women before me, I follow in the footsteps of our first female member of the House of Representatives, Mrs Suze Groeneweg. From the Hoeksche Waard she made her way to the political stage almost a century ago. Her goal was to promote the emancipation of every Dutchman, man or woman, young or old, rogue or wretched. Active involvement of all Dutch people in what lives in society is a basic condition for a resilient and resilient society. 99 years and 8 days ago, on November 7, 1918, Suze Groeneweg gave her maiden speech. She spoke her words during a very tumultuous week in our patriotic history, in which the end of the First World War was due, in which Troelstra tried to revolutionize the Netherlands and in which Emperor Wilhelm would flee to the Netherlands. It was at this time that Suze Groeneweg uttered the following words: I feel as the bearer of this historic event to prove the heavy responsibility that women are not unsuitable for politics. The voice of Suze Groeneweg still sounds through. Its words characterize the struggle for equal rights of women and minorities, such as lhbti'ers, to secure a full place in society. I myself was born in the coldest winter of the last century in Rotterdam-Zuid. My life became a journey of discovery, with inspiring encounters, both abroad and here in the Netherlands. My motivation to go to the Lower House on behalf of D66 is to be a listening ear for the problems and opportunities that people experience every day. Like the struggle with surcharges or the submission of complaints. But also with neighborhood initiatives on matters that are close to the people. In addition, I would like to use my expertise in the field of public administration and security for the further development of a secure, open and resourceful society. After all, the Netherlands is never finished. Mr. Chairman. Today I would like to discuss three issues that are important to me and my party in relation to the Ministry of the Interior, namely democracy, discrimination and digitisation. First of all, of course, democracy. D66 considers it important for people to be free to shape their own lives and to be able to make their contributions to society. The government must be guided by integrity. Improper influence on the democratic process poses a serious threat to our democracy. Elections will be lost if the integrity of electoral democracy cannot be guaranteed. My colleague Verhoeven will discuss the online aspect of this later. A recent report by the WODC recently showed that undermining occurs locally. In 25% of the municipalities, a councilman, alderman or mayor suspects or knows that infiltration takes place for a criminal purpose. Almost a quarter of all mayors indicate being personally threatened. D66 also believes that local drivers should be aware of what to do in these situations and that they should be better screened. Does the Minister agree with me? I ask the Minister: does she intend to make our democracy more resilient during her term of office? How does she do this? Then: a functioning democracy also includes an open, transparent government, where information is a right instead of a favor. D66 considers it important that the government has a face and that contact can easily be established. People need to be able to rely blindly on the government. Fortunately, the government agreement that the government attaches to an open and transparent government and that it will enter into consultation with the initiators of the Open Government Act. We look forward to these conversations with confidence. In addition to the importance of a resilient and transparent democracy, the government must also give space to anyone who wants to take the initiative. D66 does not want a patronizing government, but a directing government, which with clear rules puts every man in his or her power. In the coming period, the coalition agreement offers plenty of scope for initiatives from the neighborhood. Let me give you the example of the right-to-challenge arrangement. How and when is the Minister going to work on this? Mr. Chairman. I'm switching to another subject: discrimination. Our election program was called Chance for everyone for a reason. Structural inequality in opportunity is a form of freedom. There are examples left. Just last week, police officers saw the Amsterdam Ammar running fast. He was arrested immediately. Why? Because of his migration background? Ammar just wanted to catch his train. Too many people in the Netherlands still have the feeling that they shouldn't be part of it. For the sake of their name, their origin, their faith, their limitation, their orientation or their gender, they feel disadvantaged. And regardless of their backwardness in society, one knows how to deal with this, while the other becomes discouraged. It is therefore a task of the government and of this minister in particular to promote an inclusive society in which everyone feels at home and where everyone is protected from discrimination. Municipalities carry a special, but also legal, task. They should provide an accessible anti-discrimination provision, which should record discrimination complaints and provide independent assistance to people in the handling of their complaints. A report on these anti-discrimination provisions last March found that they are difficult to find for people, that they lack knowledge and expertise and that their budget is sometimes reduced by municipalities. Former Minister Plasterk left the response to this report to his successor. I am pleased that we have already received a letter from our current minister last Thursday, who is working on this very fast. We would like to await the investigation and the follow-up steps. However, I would ask the Minister whether she will not only draw on this, but also together with her fellow executives, and ensure that she takes the same active attitude. Then, chairman, I come to the last D, that of digitalization. Every person is increasingly dependent on the digital service provided by the government. That's good, because digital communication is fast, cheap and safe. But it also means that this ICT must function reliably, professionally, clearly and continuously. At all times one must be able to rely blindly on a well-functioning digital service. Thus, the government also has a digital duty of care. She has to get all the people in this online world to come along. A digital divide in our society is undesirable. In 2011, the Government Policy Scientific Council wrote that the government needs to realise that it is an iGovernment and that it needs to exploit innovation opportunities through digitisation. For this purpose, the WRR made a number of recommendations. Can the Secretary of State investigate to what extent the recommendations of the 2011 WRR report have now been adopted and what steps still need to be taken? There are many challenges for the Minister and the Secretary of State, and I wish them every success. Mr President, I come to a conclusion. It is a great asset to be able to live in a safe, open and democratic country. Achievements such as equal rights should be treasured. The democratic rule of law must be guarded by hand and tooth, and we must not waste it. While some countries are on a downward slide from democracy to autocracy, you, as Minister, we as Members of the House of Representatives, officials and society as a whole, should work together to maintain democracy and equal rights and regularly provide for an assessment. We owe this to ourselves and we owe it to the Suzes Groeneweg in this world. I and my party, D66, consider this necessary. In the Netherlands, we prefer to do so in the form of an open dialogue and not by imposing power from above on another. We must not let the 'd' of democracy crumble and prevent us from becoming merely a 'democracy', in which we constantly fall into each other's hands over incidents. Democracy begins by listening. As far as I am concerned, the D of democracy can be delivered as a fair and delicious chocolate letter in everyone's letterboxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mrs. Den Boer, you may stand here. As chairman, I would, of course, like to be the first to congratulate you on your lovely maiden speech. You are personally inspired by Suze Groeneweg and Aletta Jacobs. That's very appealing to us. Maiden speeches always remain the most beautiful speeches in this plenary room, I think. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u178	We will continue with the debate on the Home Affairs budget. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven on behalf of D66. Mr Verhoeven is not making a maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague Monica den Boer on her wonderful maiden speech. I fully agree with the President that it was a wonderful speech. Much has already been said, of course, about the new rulers, about the Minister and the Secretary of State for the Interior. I would particularly like to wish them every success in the coming years, for the next four years, I say to Mr Bosma, with their wonderful task and mission in this beautiful ministry. I would just like to touch briefly on two points in my contribution to this budget, namely the influence of foreign powers on democracy and the digitisation of public services, which Mr Den Boer also mentioned. First of all, the influence of the democratic process. Countries like Russia try in many ways to influence the democratic process in Western countries. This has become increasingly clear and concrete in recent years. Among other things, the AIVD pointed out this. Roughly that influence goes along two ways. First of all, you have to think of direct manipulation of election results. For example, Hackers have attempted to hack voting machines in the United States. The German Bundestag has also been hacked. This also shows why electronic voting or online voting is not desirable. This shows how vulnerable our democracy is to cyber threats. In addition, a vulnerability in voting software was detected in the Netherlands just before our elections in 2017. At that time, the Minister of the Interior responded too late. I would like to hear from the current Minister of the Interior about the voting software and what she is going to do to prevent the same situation from arising as in the previous elections? At that time, the Minister of the Interior responded too late. I would like to hear from the current Minister of the Interior about the voting software and what she is going to do to prevent a situation like that in the previous elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u180	What is D66's position on the possibility that the government sometimes produces fake news itself? Is D66 against that, too? I refer to the grey campaign in the municipality of Amsterdam, in which sneak films were made. That was a big secret. Those videos would be launched so no one would know who the maker of it was. How does D66 feel about the government producing fake news?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u181	I find any kind of fake news and fake news undesirable. Besides, I don't think you should just look at one group. You have to try to fight all forms of fake news and expose it as best you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u182	I'm very pleased with that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I was with the second way you see influence. That is the indirect way through fake news, so-called trolls, bots on the Internet or through the purchase of advertisements. We see Russian organizations creating fake news and spreading it with an army of bots or using trolls and bots to strengthen the message of a political ally. In addition, in the United States, Russian actors have purchased advertisements on Facebook in order to influence last November's elections. I told Mr Van Raak that 126 million Americans have seen these ads. Of course, that has an influence and that is a real threat. Other countries are therefore taking action. In Germany a law has been passed, the so-called fake news law, and in France eight traditional media companies work with Facebook to counter fake news. In the United States, Congress has asked for action in the area of openness about political advertisements. My colleague Marietje Schaake in the European Parliament, together with 23 other MEPs, has advocated a clear legal framework for the removal of fake news without this leading to censorship.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u185	I am all very much in favour of what Mr Verhoeven says. We have to deal with that. But I do not yet see the link that is constantly being made by D66s, regardless of whether they are ministers or MPs, with the towing network function in the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. If the Russians are buying advertising space in the United States, why would we need a towing net to get massive information from Dutch citizens? What's that connection? Why do you need such a dragnet to stop posting ads on the Internet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u186	I have not said anything about this in this contribution. Mr Van Raak just started talking about the AIVD himself, when I asked him about all those advertisements. What Mr Van Raak means by the "drag law" is the "law on intelligence and security services." When you're talking about the AIVD, it also makes sense to refer to the law that concerns the AIVD. I also said that I believe that the approach should be broad. So companies such as Google and Facebook have to take their own responsibility. The Minister said in her letter from a few days ago that she would like to discuss it. I am in favour of a broad approach to this problem. I agree with Mr Van Raak that the AIVD and the information can also contribute to this. We have a law for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u187	We have a law on intelligence and security services. We need it, because we can't live without a law like that. But part of that law is the dragnet function. Mr Verhoeven, together with me, has acted very hard against the dragnet function in the handling of that law. I do not know how many amendments he has tabled. Now I hear him say that there is actually no dragnet function in that law. My first question to Mr Verhoeven is, therefore, whether or not there is a dragnet function that he has acted against. My second question is to what extent the mass retrieval of information about Dutch citizens who have nothing to do with anything is helping us in the fight against, for example, Russians who place advertisements on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u188	I have just said something about the second, so that would be a repetition of moves. Mr Van Raak's first question is good and right. During the examination of the Intelligence and Security Services Act, I believe that it was in January, D66 indeed tabled twenty amendments. By the way, except for one, they didn't all go over the dragnet at all. They were all about different parts of that law. We have actually made the observation that a law is needed. Modernising the framework in the digital age for intelligence services is needed and we want to improve that law on a number of points. We have put forward concrete proposals for this, twenty of them. In my view, they were all rejected by the then Home Affairs and Defence Ministers. In the end, after a long period of time, we voted against it, because we felt that we were not taken seriously at all and that the adjustments should have been taken over. That law was finally passed in both chambers. So that law is a fact. Then there was a formation. We then included in the coalition agreement a number of sentences to ensure that there can, may and will be no towing net. As a Member of Parliament, I therefore seized the second opportunity I had to remove the sharp edges of that law. Then we also agreed that there would be an early evaluation on this point, because I think the concerns are absolutely justified and because I would also like to see whether an independent committee can reveal that those concerns of the Dutch will or will not be there on this point. That is what I have done so far and there will be a referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u189	We already know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u190	That's March 21st. In the run-up to that referendum, we will have an extensive public debate on the facts behind this law. I will be happy to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u192	I will be happy to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u193	Mr Van Raak, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u194	I look forward to that, but it is good that, according to D66, there is also a dragnet function in the new Intelligence and Security Services Act and that this is also the subject of the referendum. I would like to ask the Minister's point of view after this morning's letter, in which the Minister once again says that to tackle this kind of fake news, for example when Russians place advertisements on American websites, the new Intelligence and Security Services Act plus that dragnet function are needed. Does D66, like the minister says, also think that in order to prevent, for example, Russians placing advertisements on American websites, we should collect massive private data from Dutch citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u195	First of all, I too look forward to the debate, including with the SP. I hope that the debate on the part of the SP will be less mixed up with all kinds of lies and deceit about the use of the subject. It has completely gone to hell at the Ukraine referendum. Then all sorts of things were said that were wrong. I would like to have a substantive debate on this law. Let's start with the right name for this law: it's the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the Wiv. The question of the referendum is not about a towing net or a towing law. It's about that whole law, about whether you're in favour of it or against it. Mr. Van Raak himself has just said that we cannot do without such a law. I therefore assume that the SP is also in favour of such a law and that we will then discuss in the coming months what exactly that law should look like. All the frames and other inaccuracies in the debate I would therefore not like to hear any more from now on. Then Mr Van Raak will have the serious substantive debate he is begging for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u196	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u197	I find this absolutely appalling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u198	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u199	We have heard from the general considerations that people who are in favour of a referendum are responsible for attacks. Now this suggestion is raised by the Minister: if you are in favour of a referendum, you are also in favour of fake news. And then Mr Verhoeven is going to tell me that I am lying here. Then I would also like to know from Mr Verhoeven what lies I have been saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u200	Okay, I'll be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u201	Fine, bring it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u202	During the previous referendum, you referred to, for example, that Ukraine would become a member of the European Union on the basis of the association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. That was totally incorrect. You have also claimed, at least, that all your colleagues in the group and others have done so, that billions from the European Union would go to Ukraine on the basis of that association agreement. You've said a lot of other things. I believe that we would even go militaryly together against the Russians on the basis of that association agreement. You, Mr Baudet, Mr Wilders and Mr Roos have put forward all sorts of things that were totally incorrect. I hope we will not do that in this referendum. I call on you to do so now, because that would improve the debate and many Dutch people would understand what this important and complicated law is about. Then, as a whole, we can have a good debate on that law rather than a debate that is drenched with fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u203	Finally, Mr Van Raak, the debate on the association agreement has been extensive. You will have the opportunity to say something, and I think Mr Öztürk will be next.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u204	What Mr. Roos or Mr. Baudet says, I don't know. I'm not responsible for that, and there's nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u205	But those were your friends during that campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u206	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u207	What I can say about is what was in the Treaty and the interpretation of those rules. We did, but I note that the debate on the European Constitution said that there would be war and that the light would go out in Europe. I see now, with this referendum, that, here in the Chamber, group chairmen and MPs are again calling out that we would be jointly responsible for attacks and that we would suddenly be for fake news. I find it embarrassing to see that Mr Verhoeven does not distance himself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u208	I think everything has been said about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u209	No, Mr. Chairman, I really need to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u210	Very short, and don't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u211	Absolutely not, Mr. Chairman. You know me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u212	That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u213	I agree with Mr Van Raak that we should not go along with this terror hunt, which I have heard from time to time. I have also been accused by Members of Parliament of helping to make terrorism possible because I voted against certain laws. I have always said that I think that is a bad way of debating it. You won't hear me say it. If you're against this law, come up with good arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u214	This debate is coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u215	But please stop that scaremongering that isn't based on anything. That's different from saying that if you're against the law, you're against terrorism. Because all 150 members in this House of Representatives are against terrorism. We just want to fight it in a different way. And that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u216	We need to stop scaring him. The tow law, or the tow net, has nothing to do with the fake news story. So we don't have to make that link either, not even D66. I heard in the maiden speech of my colleague from D66 that D66 wants the government to listen to the citizens, but I see that after the signature of the coalition, D66 wants to eavesdrop on the citizens through the dragnet. My question to Mr Verhoeven is: when are you going to live up to the words you used for the elections and what D66 stands for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u217	Citizen eavesdropping has been going on for years. This is done on the basis of the laws that allow intelligence services and even investigation services to monitor people in a targeted manner, or to tap them if there is reason to. The eavesdropping of citizens is therefore something that has been happening for years. There are legal frameworks for this and they are very important. The most important modern framework currently in place is the Intelligence and Security Services Act, which is the subject of the referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u218	More people will come into sight via the towing network and more people will be bugged. That's what it's really about. There are images of fear: if you are not in favour of the referendum, then you are in favour of terrorism; Russia is coming. Is Mr Verhoeven also in favour of setting up a fund for fake news victims? Fake news doesn't just affect our elections; it also affects people: council members, statesmen, MPs. They're not very good at resisting at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u219	A fund for fake news victims seems a little complicated to me. I hope, then, that Mr Öztürk is not the first to want to draw a lot of money out of that fund. But I wouldn't necessarily see that's the best solution. Let's start at the beginning and tackle fake news instead of giving the victims money at the back. I would say: try to prevent the victims by taking a really good approach to fighting fake news. I will make some proposals for this later in my speech. If Mr Öztürk comes up with a concrete proposal for a fund, I will look favourably at it. He was just talking about D66 wanting to eavesdrop instead of listening to them, but I always listen to at least all 149 people here who can come up with proposals. On the basis of the election results, they have been given their vote and can speak here. And so I listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u220	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u221	Öztürk himself does not need that money, but I have spoken with many victims of fake news, unfortunately also from our own media. Those victims sometimes also need resources to fight it. I will come up with proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u222	I must tell you, however, that in my text I will also deal with the role of DENK in the field of fake news. So I hope you won't call in a fund for victims while you're the one who did it. Can I come back to that later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u223	You may respond to this later, Mr Öztürk. He'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u224	There is one point I do not quite understand from Mr Verhoeven. In the past, you were always opposed to the mass and random collection of data, so to speak, of dragnet. When I look at the text in the coalition agreement, I see that it is merely a repetition of previous promises made by a previous cabinet. And yet you say you want to continue with this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u225	Well, if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u226	What happened to D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u227	If you would be so kind as to read out the passage from the coalition agreement, because you may have it with you. It's about the massive and random tapping. The coalition agreement says we're not gonna do that. If your objection in advance is that you are against massive and random tapping, and you then write in the coalition agreement that you are not going to do so and that, if you do, you will change the law and let a dependent commission test it, then you have a story. Then as a D66 MP, you've managed to do something, instead of standing on the sidelines and just saying "we're against, we're against," what GroenLinks and the SP always do. So I have worked for it and I have now got a sentence in the coalition agreement that can be worked out and which guarantees that we are not going to tap massively and randomly. It was therefore my commitment as a parliamentarians to remove the sharp edges of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u228	I understand that you have moved from 20 amendments to a vague text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u229	Those twenty amendments were not on this subject, but they also dealt with all kinds of other aspects. I have indeed tried to adapt as many parts as possible. In the end, you will make the decision whether to vote in favour or against. We voted against it at the time. Then I tried during the formation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u230	You just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u231	...to take the sharp edges off that law. And I have succeeded in doing so at the most important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u232	I am very surprised at the attitude of D66. Before the elections, she tabled no less than twenty amendments to remove the dragnet function but also other privacy sensitivities from the law. You have spoken with a great deal of energy and I would almost say idealism. For 75 minutes, you've been hammering that law. The press release then says...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u233	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u234	The cabinet clearly did not need to make our concrete and constructive contribution to a better law. D66 considers the current law and how...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u235	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u236	... it is now quickly pushed through and therefore we are voting against the law." You are now saying that you are fully reassured during the cabinet formation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u237	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u238	... and during the negotiations. How does D66 ensure that this so-called dragnet function is removed from the law? Is the law still going to be put into effect like...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u239	No, this can't be. Really, it has to be short. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u240	Then my question is: how does D66 get the dragnet function out of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u241	I have indeed tried, and thank you for that, at the time with a lot of energy, a fairly long contribution and many proposals for amending the law in order to improve the law, but then the law was passed by an overwhelming majority in both chambers. So now that law is just a fact. Then, during the cabinet formation, we were given the opportunity to make agreements about that law. That is what we have done, precisely by literally saying that there can't be, can and will be a dragnet. This will be reviewed by an independent committee after two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u242	This is a repeat. Mrs. Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u243	Yes, but it is an answer to the question of the esteemed colleague and I am really trying to say one more time in a clear way what my position is, also because I get the question more often in the country...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u244	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u245	...and it's okay if people know why I handled it like this. So that's my answer to your question. I, as a Member of Parliament, have taken every opportunity, as a matter of conscience, to get rid of the law. In the referendum, I will also explain to everyone who wants to hear it from me why I did it. I also think it is my responsibility as a Member of Parliament to explain clearly where you stand as a Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u247	... as soon as the people have questions. Then you have to listen to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u248	Mrs Arissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u249	I very much appreciate that Mr Verhoeven is trying to answer my question. However, he hasn't been answered. My question was: how does D66 get the dragnet function out of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u250	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u251	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u252	We have a passage in the coalition agreement. It says that there will be no dragnet function as described, and if there is, we will adapt the law. I did not have that guarantee during the legal process, because then a vast majority said: we are not going to amend that law anymore, Mr Verhoeven, just go away with your 20 amendments. Now I've managed to get the law amended. This is literally stated in the coalition agreement, when an independent committee finds that there appears to be a towing network. So I've managed to make sure there's no dragnet. That's what the four government parties agreed. The other three were all for this law, not us. If there is, we will make an amendment to the law to ensure that it is no longer legally possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u253	Finally, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u254	As D66 knows, precisely the research mission-oriented interception is the dragnet function in the law. It will simply enter into force on 1 May. If, as a coalition partner, D66 now undertakes to remove the dragnet function from the law, we are very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u255	Then it is also important to say that there are, of course, all kinds of other safeguards in the law that ensure that there will never be any long-term, large-scale and systematic tapping, for there is, for example, a committee in advance, a committee of judges, which must approve the Minister's request from the AIVD. So you first have judges who have to approve the minister's consent and afterwards you have a supervisor, the CTIVD, who can also constantly and at any time see if the law is being properly implemented by the AIVD. We discussed these safeguards at the time, and they have been strengthened. Among other things in the Eerste Kamer the guarantee in the area of supervision has been strengthened further than was the case when we discussed the subject in the Lower House. That too is an additional guarantee for no towing net. I really hope you're convinced. I see you shaking no. That saddens me a lot, but fortunately we still have a few months to debate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u256	Mr Verhoeven came up with all kinds of examples of fake news from Siberia from a long time ago, but it's about the Netherlands. Yesterday, the Minister said that Russia tried to influence the elections in the Netherlands. In my contribution I mentioned the 2016 AIVD report. It states that the AIVD has not found hard evidence that Russia has tried to influence the elections. Last year Mr Verhoeven praised and supported that report. That is why we have had all these debates, with all the sharpness of Mr Verhoeven. Why does he suddenly say the opposite?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u257	Now Mr Bosma is really knowingly bringing together all kinds of things, so consciously, to construct some kind of story that just doesn't add up, so this is a very moderate interruption. That's for the viewers at home. It is actually the disclaimer in everything that Mr Bosma says, so that Mr Bosma's fake news is a bit disenchanted by me. I never said anything about that AIVD report except that I referred to it; it's literally in it. There are also other examples, for example the hack at the OVV just before the report on the MH17 came out. In other countries too, intelligence services and other organisations have clearly indicated that the Russians were behind attempts at influence. In this sense, there are numerous examples that show that the Russians try to spread disinformation via social media in different ways, either through hacking or through advertising, or by spreading fake news through all kinds of bots and trolls. So it's a serious matter. We absolutely have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u258	How is it that the AIVD said in 2016 that there is no influence and that a D66 minister said yesterday that there is influence? What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u259	I don't know, but there are several sources that show that there are all kinds of fake news. It is very good to ask the Minister this question, but the AIVD, the NCTV and all kinds of other organisations have clearly pointed out that there is Russian influence. But Mr Bosma is right that there is also talk of the spread of fake news in the Netherlands. I have to think, for example, of the fact that Mr Wilders tweeted a picture at some point where Mr Pechtold stood among all kinds of Sharia protesters. That's also an example of spreading fake news. So there are all kinds of examples of this. It is good to have a serious debate on this, because people take on a lot of things when they just don't add up. That is bad for democracy, and that is bad for public debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u260	Just now, Mr Verhoeven said that fake news should be addressed. So politicians must also be dealt with when they report something and use the style of irony for that. So that's how far the liberal party D66 is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u261	If placing photographs of Mr Pechtold between Sharia people is irony and the Republic of Amsterdam is a very serious matter, the comparison will be very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u262	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u263	That's exactly the point I want to make. Mr Bosma always magics with all kinds of ingredients and then comes to a kind of story that rumbles on all sides, but because it is nicely spoken, it seems something. People fall for that. I do not think that is good for our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u264	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u265	I'm just gonna get back the thread of my story. I think I was talking about what we're going to do in the Netherlands about that fake news. The government agreement states that an additional 5 million will be allocated to investigative journalism. That's very important. I am very pleased that the Minister has written to talk to Facebook, Google and Twitter about countering political influence. I would like to ask the Minister to address three issues. One: a sharper approach to fake news, trolls and bots. Two: more openness of political ads. Three: more openness about the algorithms that these big social media companies use, because they determine the content and placement order of certain messages. Is the Minister prepared to continue to take the lead in this debate at European level? A second point in this respect is that we would like an awareness campaign to make people more digitally resistant to all that fake news. Of course, it would be best to start with digital skills in primary education as soon as possible, but in the short term we should also do something. That is why I would like to see an awareness campaign. I'd "Don't fall for it!" (Parliament adopted the legislative This allows people to see that not everything they read on the Internet necessarily needs to be true. That could help raise awareness of fake news. Is the Minister prepared to do such a campaign as "Don't fall for it!', to ensure that people understand that there are a lot of incorrect messages in circulation and that they are also actively disseminated? Then there is the subject that my colleague from the CDA, Mr Van der Molen, has already asked for. Research shows that trolls and bots have also been used frequently in the campaigns in Germany and France. I would therefore like to endorse Mr Van der Molen's idea of conducting an investigation into the influence of foreign actors and on which parties or movements that influence was directed. I would like to mention the following three facts. In February, the NRC already reported on the use of fake profiles and trolls by DENK. The New York Times wrote about Russian interference in the debate on the Ukraine referendum through Thierry Baudet's party, which unfortunately is not here today. By the way, that same party came up with a Facebook campaign out of nowhere with two seats in the House of Representatives. I would also like to draw attention to Mr Bosma's fake news input just now in this debate. So I think it's a good idea to investigate this. That is why I support my CDA colleague's proposal on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u266	Did I hear correctly that Mr Verhoeven of D66 says here: there will be a "Don't fall for it!"-campaign? I think that campaign was launched by DENK a year and a half ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u267	Okay. I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u268	We made a beautiful video with the message: people, don't fall for it! The first time I "don't fall for it!" in this Chamber, was exactly three years ago. Then we were evicted from the PvdA and PvdA members handed over all kinds of false data to the journalists. That's when I said don't fall for it. So either this is either plagiarism or you think it's such a good campaign that you think: well, that's what we're taking over. It's one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u269	Well, plagiarism doesn't seem like the way I want to go. I honestly didn't know this. I love that the "Don't fall for it!"-campaign by DENK seems to have found follow-up with us at the offices. I would therefore like to say that if I come up with a motion on this later, Mr Öztürk can support me in that. I hope we can hang out together. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dan kunnen we samen de barricaden op en zeggen: trap er niet in!]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u270	I am prepared to make the campaign films for D66 and this minister: don't fall for it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u271	Well, I'd like to thank you very much for that. I think that the signing of the motion by DENK is quite sufficient on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u272	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u273	I wasn't finished. I know my time goes on, but that goes for everyone in this life. I just want to talk about the government's digital services. The government agreement states that there will be an ambitious agenda for the digitisation of public administration. Moreover, I have now arrived at the portfolio of the Secretary of State, whom I also expect very much in this area. I would like to hear from him whether he sees this as an important point and as a subject he really wants to focus on in the years to come. We have seen that the broadness of the topic of digitalisation is still in the way of the necessary depth. It is often turning a bit of buttons on all fronts, but it does not come to a structured, integrated approach. We also see too many ICT projects that just don't go well. Take the BRP project, for example, but there are many examples to be found in the past. The Elias Committee produced a report on this at the time. What role does the Secretary of State see for himself here? Is this really a priority for him? How is he going to make sure that we see less failing ICT projects in the coming years? I admit that, politically speaking, this is perhaps a slightly less sexy subject, because the good management and management of projects is generally found less attractive than the start-up of large-scale new projects. I would like to see this cabinet working on this new austerity in the area of good management. Mr President, my final point. Preventing failing ICT projects should be done according to the principle of "open source, unless." I mean by that: make the source code of software funded by public money public. This is an incentive for ICT suppliers to deliver real quality, and others can use the same software for their ideas. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take over the "open source, unless" principle and is he also willing to create a single digital window where people can see which software is open source available? My final point concerns the security of municipal websites. The predecessor of this Secretary of State was a minister, PvdA Minister Plasterk. He was too laconic to handle city websites. I hope that more attention can be paid to this now that we have a Secretary of State who has responsibility on this issue. Is he willing to hunt down the municipalities, of course in an appropriate way when it comes to administrative relations, to secure their websites, for example by implementing protocols such as HTTPS, DNSSEC and IP version 6? What purpose does the Secretary of State set for himself here? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u275	Mr. Chairman. I too congratulate the Minister on her appointment. The Secretary of State had been in a debate before. We'll meet again and again. The confidence in our politicians is low. So I do not think we need to explain to the inhabitants of the Netherlands that they should not fall for it. I think we should do the opposite: what is needed to fall for it and give us the confidence we need to do our job? Officials and politicians are all doing their stinking best, but the integrity of the administration is under pressure. The underworld tries to penetrate the upper world, and unfortunately it does so too often. I hear that especially in Brabant and Limburg, but that plays a role throughout the Netherlands. It is also not surprising that we are not served as companies, take a firm Rapider, maintain good contacts with local council members and have dark influence with campaign money or otherwise. At the same time, in national politics, deals are made with firms which are not sufficiently transparent, whose lobby is unclear and what we, as politicians, are then not sufficiently informed about. We can see that we have a real battle to take from high to low when it comes to integrity, transparency in our work and the question of whether we deal with the influences we all encounter as politicians every day. I am therefore genuinely concerned, in this case when it comes to municipal elections, whether municipalities are sufficiently up to it, whether municipalities are able to guarantee integrity, to keep undermining and intrigues out of the door. There is a hand-out to support municipalities. I wonder if that's enough. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what additional instruments can be used to support the municipalities in ensuring their integrity. I am thinking of a vog for all council members. Many council members already have them, but it's not self-evident yet. I'm thinking of instruments for mayors. How can they deal with council members, or aldermen who do not behave with integrity? It is therefore not a question of criminal offences but of non-intelligent behaviour. In fact, they will be empty-handed. What instruments can they use to act? And how do we deal with the transparency of campaign money? It is referred to by D66 when it comes to advertisements, but it is, of course, the whole question of where money comes from. I have heard fellow council members say they are occasionally approached by local broadcasters who offer packages for advertising that go far beyond the campaign money available to them. It turns out that there are fellow council members, sometimes local parties, who sometimes have tens of thousands of euros of campaign money from which no one knows where it comes from. Often from sponsoring by unnamed firms, where there is no trace of whether they have received it and of which it is not clear what happens when a zoning plan is put to the vote and how that influence then finds its way. In short, we think that is important. Mr. Chairman. I also think it is important that we look at how we can further strengthen local government and council members. Small groups, with little time and little money, are expected. In what way does the Minister intend to support that? Mr. Chairman. Fake news. We all have to deal with it. I'm not under any illusions. I think we have a problem, both at home and abroad. That's why I found yesterday's letter so disappointing. Actually, there's nothing new in it. My first question is therefore: what is actually the reason? What specific threats are coming to the Netherlands? What can we do about it? Are there any criminal possibilities that the Minister is investigating that we can use as a Dutch parliament, as a Dutch cabinet, to counter that? And what role will the Minister himself play, both in the Netherlands and at European level, to counter this fake news? It cannot be that we score a scoop in the Telegraaf, but that then it becomes unclear what exactly we are going to do. For that the problem is really not naive, the problem of Russian but also other influences too great. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u276	I agree with Mrs Kuik that this is an important subject. What did Mrs Kuik think of the proposals made by CDA and D66 in the field of dealing with fake news? An investigation in conversation with Google, Facebook, Twitter about those ads? Trying to deal with the bots and the trolls, an awareness campaign? I hope to be able to count on the support of the Labour Party to pull this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u277	You can count on my support. I thought it was a classic one-two of you with your minister. The Minister comes up with a hint through De Telegraaf and as coalition partners you make a number of proposals, with more content than the Minister's letter. I'd like more of this, but I'm also expecting a little more from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u278	In my opinion, the Dutch people are not going to talk about political one-twos when we are going to speak in the House of Representatives. The Minister has sent a letter and CDA and D66 have made additional proposals that we are discussing here today. Let's discuss it on content. I am glad that Mrs Kikkie also sees some of these proposals and that she sees them as concrete. That is a nice interpretation of dualism, in which the minister comes with a main line and the Chamber, already controlling, can come to a somewhat further deepening. It would be nice if the Labour Party would try to do the same in the coming years. I'm counting on that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u279	Sure, you can do that. I'll hold you to your dualism, too. I can see that you have become very flexible in your views, so that promises something for the rest of the years to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u280	I've been flexible in my views for seven and a half years. It's called moving insight, practical politics, doing what it takes to take changes in the world instead of being stuck in your own dogmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u281	You've been practicing in front of the mirror. I saw it. You are ready for the debate. Mr President, I will continue with the top incomes in the government. It will be no surprise that I find it extremely disappointing that the WNT3 was thrown into the refrigerator. This means that there is still a lot of money for people we do not want it to end up there. How can we say: policeman, nurse, educators, wait a little while while the big guys and women are still running away with a lot of money? I'm going to ask an open question about that. I can't imagine the Minister's gonna be okay with everything. Take those private healthcare institutions that fetch more than €200,000 because they are at the government subsidy crane. The city council of Amsterdam didn't think that was okay. I'm sure the Minister won't be okay with that either. I want to know from her, if this bill isn't going to be, what she does want to do to tackle the illegal top incomes together. I have already said that trust in politics is extremely important, as is trust in government. As a resident of the Netherlands, you want the government to be there for you, that the rules work for you, that you don't get any further in debt by the government, that the government will help you, that you won't be cut off on your AOW if you find that a small mistake was made in 1966, that the government is there to protect you from this kind of incompetence. I ask the Minister as a coordinating minister what she is going to do in concrete terms to ensure that the government is standing next to the citizen, that we can puncture the purple crocodile. What's her action plan? I'm rounding up. A number of good questions have been asked about democracy and how we can strengthen it. Good questions have also been asked about discrimination. For the sake of clarity, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u282	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. Mrs. Van der Graaf is having her maiden speech. This also means that it must not be interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u283	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the word. Who am I standing here for? Who are we standing here for? That is the question I am asking myself now that I am allowed to speak on behalf of the Christian Union for the first time. Two weeks ago I was sworn in as a Member of Parliament and today I can stand here on a special day for me. On March 15, 2007 I was sworn in as a member of Provincial States in Groningen. Today, on the day after ten years and eight months later, my successor was sworn in this morning. That also put an end to my state membership there. Farewell is now a good thing, but if the agenda of the Chamber allows it, I have already learned that this week, hopefully it will come up again. When I became a State Member in 2007, I wanted to take up my responsibility in society. I realize now that these were really big words for the law student I was back then. Still, that's how I felt. When I look back on that period, the people I was allowed to be there come to my mind. I am thinking of the parents who wanted to choose a child care provider who best suited their child and their upbringing, and of the residents who wanted to share in windmill yields close to them. I am thinking of the displaced asylum seekers from Iraq who, out of protest, held a tent camp in Ter Apel for weeks, but where there was no running water and of the refugees from Syria who had to walk along the potato fields with everything they could still take, before they arrived at the registration centre in Ter Apel. They can take the bus now. I am also thinking of the farmers who wanted room to develop their business, in exchange for investments in sustainability, the food banks who wanted to transport the food refrigerated and set up large food gardens in the province and the students who can now travel to the school of their choice at a discount. When I look back at that period in Groningen, the earthquake in Huizinge in 2012 as a result of the gas extraction, the heaviest earthquake so far, was a turning point. A lot of people are desperate. They feel unsafe, have a great sense of impotence and no longer know where to look for it. They've lost faith in the government. There lies the task for the government, to work on restoring trust and to give people perspective again. I've been to a lot of these people's homes and I've heard their stories. Only then have I really experienced what it means to be a representative of the people: to stand next to the people and to strive for justice when injustice occurs. That is the motivation I take to the House of Representatives and I look forward to working with you all. From this point on, I would also like to warmly congratulate the new rulers of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations on their office at the heart of public administration and democracy. I wish them much wisdom and blessing in the performance of their duties. I look forward to a good partnership. In particular, I wish the Minister good cooperation with the municipalities, the provinces and the water authorities. In recent years, they have been given a lot of weight, including with the decentralisations, and they have not always felt that their interests and concerns were being taken up within the cabinet. There is a fine challenge for the Minister. I'm appealing to her to really re-evaluate the public administration. In these weeks, local electoral lists are filled in many places with people who are enthusiastic and driven to put their time and energy into service to their village or city in the coming years. In a number of places, even next week, council members will be elected in connection with the reclassification elections. A well-functioning local and provincial democracy is very important, but not self-evident. It is therefore important that the coalition agreement should take account of the strengthening of the training and equipment of the members of the Council and of the States. There's work to be done. With the municipal elections in mind, I ask the Minister if she is prepared to work on an action plan to strengthen local democracy in the short term. I've been in touch with councilmen lately. This shows that not all council members have access to support in their work, including through training. For State members and council members in large cities it is reasonably in order, but especially in the smaller municipalities the possibilities are limited or not present, or the thresholds are very high. In recent years many tasks have gone to the municipalities, such as the Wmo and youth care. So there's a lot on the board of those councilmen. Next Wednesday we can go back to the ballot box. The electorate has a right to ensure that the representatives of the people are well equipped for their duties. What is the Minister's view on this? Mr. Chairman. In most municipalities, the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act is organised at the same time as the municipal elections, but this cannot go hand in hand in the municipalities where reclassification elections take place. During the referendum on the Ukraine Treaty in 2016, reclassification municipalities were compensated for the additional costs they had to incur. Is the Minister prepared to meet the municipalities now? People are concerned about the security in the country and the influences from abroad on our society. The Minister's letter on the influence of state actors on public opinion is worrying. That also shows how vulnerable we are. Does this not also reflect the importance of the Intelligence and Security Services Act? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I believe in the power of society. Residents are often much better able to solve problems than the government. A good example of this is the inhabitants of Kloosterburen in my own province, who, with a cooperative, bought care for the elderly in their own village and were able to keep care close to home, in a place where the facilities are under pressure. And the Rogogeveenstraat here in The Hague, where residents, united as a cooperative, were the first residents in the Netherlands to buy their own street and where the municipality as an ally of the neighborhood cooperated. In the coalition agreement, there is scope for initiatives from society. The challenge law is being pursued so that residents can challenge the government to hand over to them a public task such as a community center or a greening facility with a budget. There will be experiments with the right to take over, all of which will be presented from the Initiative Note cooperative government, which the Christian Union submitted together with the Labour Party last year. How does the Minister intend to shape this? And will this also have to be legally anchored? The inhabitants of Kloosterburen and of the Roggveenstraat were persistent. They were innovative and eventually made it. But a lot of obstacles had to be taken. And those obstacles need to be removed. Is the Minister prepared to do something about that? The cabinet also wants to work on removing obstacles experienced by people in the border regions. There are still too many obstacles. For example, diplomas are not always recognised, gaps in pension building and insurance are sometimes more expensive. A Dutch nurse with MBO-3 cannot now work as a professional in German care for the elderly, because additional qualifications are needed. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take action quickly and, if so, how does he intend to do so? We live in a time when differences between people are often magnified. The more urgent the question becomes as to what we share. What we can at least find each other in is the Dutch freedoms and equality enshrined in our Constitution. The Constitution also has a symbolic function in addition to a legal one. The latter could be better expressed. The inclusion of a general provision is already under way. But the big question now, as far as I am concerned, is how to ensure that this Constitution really becomes a living document that brings us closer together as people. And how does the Minister intend to work on that? Mr President, I come to a conclusion. I started with the question: who am I standing here for? I stand here for people with plans and ideals, with wishes and concerns, old and young. As a Member of Parliament, I would like to listen to them and give a voice to those who do not have a voice. I want to strive for justice when injustice occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u284	Thank you. You spoke very well. Congratulations on your lovely maiden speech. To give the opportunity for congratulations, I will suspend the sitting for five minutes. I'll be the first to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u285	I give the floor to Mrs Arissen on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u286	Thank you, Mr President. People are spending more and more time online. The mobile phone, tablet or computer is always at your fingertips. Everything you do, say, find, have or are, where you are and with whom, is now online. And the government's gonna watch you and save everything for three years and maybe forever. Does that make the world safer? Or are we giving up more and more privacy for a false security, for more and more government control and censorship? Are human rights not at risk, such as the right to privacy and freedom of expression? And can we trust that the government will act as the protective brother instead of the "big brother" you're spying on? What will happen to freedom of the press if journalists are no longer able to protect their sources? But there is also a bit of hope on the horizon. Because the crucial dragnet parts of the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017 will enter into force not on 1 January, but on 1 May 2018. Yesterday it was formally announced that the referendum on the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017, known as the Drag Act, will take place on 21 March 2018. Although the referendum was not mentioned as the reason for the delayed entry into force in March, it is a good thing that the Minister does not allow the law to enter into force in advance. So thank you for that. It is extremely important for all people to say loud and clear, in the run-up to the referendum, that the disproportionate powers given to the intelligence services, among other things in order to target innocent citizens, must be reversed. Especially now that the coalition parties say in advance that they will ignore the wishes of the people, the Party for Animals calls on everyone to join our hard campaign to wipe this drag law off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u287	Here again the precise factual situation: in an interview Mr Buma of the CDA said something about ignoring a result and then, in my opinion, during the debate on the declaration of government, the Chamber adopted a motion collectively. I believe that this motion came from the SP and said that the result of the referendum would be taken seriously. In my view, that is the latest state of affairs, so that seems to me to be important for Mrs Arissen's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u288	In any case, I am glad that D66 also believes that the outcome of the referendum should be taken very seriously. I would like to point out that during the Ukraine referendum it was also said: we are going to take the no seriously, we are going to point it out and we are going to see what the citizen meant by a no. That was then taken up for a six-month period. The Animal Party hopes that this will now be actively taken up, that it will indeed be taken seriously, that if there is indeed a no from the referendum, this will also be taken into account and that it will be responded quickly, at least before the law enters into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u289	How does Mrs Arissen expect that to happen? Because at the Ukraine referendum, we saw that the question was whether or not to ratify the treaty. A number of substantive changes were subsequently made to reflect the debate that had taken place. One party did not think that a serious approach to the referendum outcome would be followed, the other felt that it would. How does Mrs Arissen want it to happen? Is the Animal Party, for example, in favour of the complete deletion of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u290	Short answer, Mrs Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u291	No, of course not, because the Wiv 2002 needs modernisation. That's outside of any discussion. The Animal Party does think that you simply cannot allow the articles of law, and these are crucial articles of law, which concern the towing network function and which will enter into force on 1 May, to enter into force; we also checked that with the Legislative Office. So it's that simple. I have just heard from Mr Verhoeven that D66 is very pleased that this dragnet function is being removed from the law. So we will stick to D66 as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u292	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u293	The Party for Animals is therefore not in favour of repealing the law. The question during the referendum will be about whether or not to withdraw the law. Can I count on the Animal Party, because it does not want to repeal the law, to campaign for the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u294	No, then Mr Verhoeven completely misunderstood me. There is already the Act on Intelligence and Security Services 2002. It needs modernisation, but the Animal Party absolutely does not want the Wiv 2017 as it now stands and will enter into force to enter into force in this way, because it has serious privacy concerns and innocent citizens can be tapped massively. The Party for Animals doesn't want that. So we will absolutely campaign for a no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u295	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u296	Mr. Chairman. For it is absurd to note that citizens themselves must organise a referendum in order to make their voice heard in order to protect their fundamental right to privacy, their security and their democracy. The fact that the government doesn't do this is extremely sad. What does this say about democracy if the AIVD is more interested in your opinion than the coalition parties? Now listening to the citizens has turned to listening to the citizens. The latter is the state of play. Where opposition Buma last year said that the outcome of the consultative referendum on the Ukraine Treaty had to be honored, or else people would lose their faith in politics massively, he said, how different as a coalition partner: I want that drag law to go on, here I will finally make the choice that we do not consider this referendum to be a real referendum. D66 called the ruling clumsy and then also said that that law continues, now that they are reassured in the back chambers of the Binnenhof. First of all, vote against the drag law and referenda and when it is not a good time for the drag law and are against referendums. This political opportunism cannot be the intention of two parties that have a D in their party name. The Animal Party is also asking again today that we do so to the Minister of Democrats 66...... what the position of this government is with regard to the drag attack. What is the possibility for the cabinet to change or not to bring into force the powers under the law which will enter into force on 1 May? Normally, the proclamation of an advisory referendum has a so-called suspensive effect on the law to be voted on. Can the Minister promise that the Wiv 2017 will not enter into force until after the cabinet has argued how it will do justice to the outcome and we have debated it here in the Chamber? So much for the referendum, Mr President. Then back to the tow law. Let us be clear: the Animal Party strongly opposes the entry into force of this tow law and the revision of the Wiv in this form. But that does not mean that we are not willing to cooperate in a law that is good for our privacy and our security does. Because, as I said, modernisation is needed. The law has been speeded up, with all the flaws, gaps and blurry indeterminate powers, chased by both Chambers of the States-General, because elections were coming. That is a disgrace in itself, but let us say that it is better to turn halfway than to go astray. I see I'm running out of time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u297	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u298	Finally, let me say that the Animal Party believes that privacy is security. We will never tolerate our human rights, our fundamental rights being put at risk for false security. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u299	Just a quick question. Mrs Arissen is having a glowful debate about democracy, with a D. Very nice. Well, we've been a little cheerful here in the House of Representatives since yesterday, because we have a flag and that flag stands for everything, everyone can fill it out themselves. The flag stands for the Netherlands and for our history. The chairman looked back: yes, he is still there. But that flag also stands for democracy with a D. Everyone voted for that flag, except the Party for Animals. Why are you against our beautiful Dutch flag, which is the symbol of our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u300	We are not against our flag at all, that should be clear. However, during the budgetary debates and during the debate on the coalition agreement, we discussed a great many important issues in the House of Representatives. And what does the people get? The national anthem and the flag. We have here the weapon of the States General, which stands for the chairman. We believe that, apart from being in an identity crisis, we do not need the Dutch flag at all to say that we are here in the Dutch States-General, we are there for the citizens and we are representatives of the Dutch citizens. It is a fact that we in the House of Representatives make policy that affects a lot more people and countries and, for example, the climate, than just the climate and the people in the Netherlands. That's what the Party for Animals wants to emphasize here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u301	Thank you, Mrs Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u302	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, also from this place by me a welcome to the Minister. We have already welcomed the Secretary of State and have already expressed our desire for fruitful cooperation. I'd like to do the same in the direction of her Excellency. I would also like to congratulate both the ladies who made a maiden speech from this place, Mr Den Boer and Mr Van der Graaf. Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about reclassifications. In the coalition agreement there is a phrase that intrigues us. I quote: 'A process of reclassification is desirable for municipalities which are long-term and highly dependent on common arrangements for essential tasks'. I had to take some time to get that sentence working on me, because what does it say here? Do we understand that the government wants to significantly reduce the number of municipalities? Is that the point? Indeed, many municipalities already work closely together for essential tasks. As one of my colleagues said, there are 800 partnerships. And what's wrong with that, would you say? Those municipalities do so in order to fulfil their municipal responsibility all the better. If this goes on like this, you actually get a kind of regions like a smallest level of government. Such a forced regionalisation wave, I'm just saying, as a SGP, seems very undesirable to us. First, there is a strong decentralised approach to local authorities to bring policies close to the citizen, and now these same municipalities are then obliged to become more large-scale and re-organise. reclassification only increases the distance between population and local government. In short, what exactly is the government's commitment? What is the purpose and what role does it have to play in this regard? That is a second question that is linked to it for the provinces? Should these provinces be pushing for reclassification even more than they are doing now? Is it not more sensible to strengthen democratic control of cooperation rather than distance politics from the citizen? Is the government prepared to investigate this and look at the possibilities of strengthening democratic control over these voluntary partnerships between municipalities? Mr. Chairman. A few words about the parliamentary system. The government agreement also talks about plans for the electoral system and the regional vote. The SGP would like to hear exactly what problem it is to solve. Attention to the region is very important, but leave the regional representation, I would say, to the political parties. You can name and name those colleagues who have a strong regional bond. It is not a system change but a strengthening of the involvement of citizens that must be at the heart of the matter. Can we assume that at least the present representativeness of the system will be maintained? Citizens' confidence is an important starting point. We have not seen anything in the referendum law, as it still stands. We will therefore also vote with conviction in favour of the abolition, the repeal of the law, but at the same time it raises the question of how to ensure that citizens' confidence in the political system remains and how we are involved in the decision-making process. Mr. Chairman. Let me focus on the constitutional role. From people who want to settle in, we ask for knowledge of constitutional rights and duties. That knowledge is also important within the government. We are pleased that, on a proposal from Mr Van der Staaij, the Chamber is now going to make more serious work on the constitutional review of legislative proposals. After all, it is Parliament's responsibility to ensure that no law violates the Constitution. But here is also a task for the government. It should be equally logical for the Home Office, the Department, to carry out a constitutional test on legislative proposals such as the financial test. Home Affairs is the mother department, in particular the guardian of fundamental rights and the Constitution. What possibilities does the Minister see for incorporating the constitutional review of legislative proposals by the Home Office throughout the process? A related point is the relationship between the Netherlands and international laws and regulations. There is a state committee on parliamentary systems dealing, among other things, with questions about European integration. We assume that the Van der Staaij bill on the two-thirds majority for European treaties will be included. But also more generally, it is the question of whether international law does not work too much in the Netherlands. A direct effect undermines the strength of the Dutch parliamentary system. The SGP considers it important for the government to take a critical look at this. Is the Minister prepared to come up with a note on the relationship between the Netherlands and the international legal order and the passage of international and European law in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Those were the more constitutional questions. I would like to raise a few other points, because we are also getting signals about them, including the rates for burial. Many municipalities raise the rates for buried graveyards considerably under the guise of covering the costs of cemeteries. People regularly ring the bell about this. Of course, the fixing of tariffs is part of the autonomy of the municipalities and we do not want to enter them, but at the same time we note that burying in this way is sometimes made financially impossible. That is a strange expression, because of course that is not possible. In any case, the social and social responsibility of the municipalities in this context is sometimes at stake. No sky-high rates are appropriate for meeting social responsibilities. Does the Minister see opportunities to ensure that municipalities arrive at more real and affordable rates? Mr. Chairman. In fact, I would like to raise another matter. It's formally part of another meeting. On 11 December there will be a legislative consultation on housing and spatial planning. Unfortunately, I cannot be present, but we do have a few pressing questions. I'd like to put it to you, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u303	That burying is an appropriate point. That's also something I've been working on for quite some time. You actually see a market of the cemeteries. In the past, we have called for a lot of attention to be paid to abuses during excavation and re-excavation. Can we also ask the Minister for a more fundamental statement: is this a public matter or not? Because in some municipalities, you can see that there's just a commercial bill. It's gotta be all covering. Can we give the Minister the question of whether she is prepared to say here that this is a public task and that commercial tariffs cannot be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u304	This is actually a question to the Minister through Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u305	Yes, unless I make that question mine and, together with Mr Van Raak, put this question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u306	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u307	Thank you. I just wanted to talk to you about the Environment Act. Their introduction will continue. That's fine. It must be a policy-neutral transposition of the current rules. Then my question is: is it just about maintaining the current level of protection, or is it also allowing municipalities to tighten up the rules? For example, small construction activities such as the construction of a rooftop or a conservatory are now subject to a permit exemption. That's gonna save you a lot of trouble. The introduction law threatens to eliminate this exemption as a block exemption. Municipalities have to decide for themselves. Then, at most, there will be some instructions it has to comply with. That seems to me to be the reverse order. In order to maintain citizens' confidence, we must ensure that we do not have a yo-yo policy on this issue. Let us maintain the block exemption and see if, in certain cases, unacceptable risks may arise as a result of the Environment Act. Then let's get that right. Does the Minister share this approach? I have a point about empty stables in the country. When you drive across the country, you increasingly see empty stables. This leads to the rotting and ruining of the countryside, but also to the abuse of these areas, partly because they sometimes house hemp farms. Then you wonder why farmers who end their business don't demolish those stables. Well, then they run into all kinds of tax trouble. If a company is terminated, it can just lead to that if you run those stables, that as an owner in tax technical sense costs €100,000. Then of course you think: then I'll let them stand; then they fall together. This has to do with the revaluation of the plots on which they live. I would ask the Minister to look into this and see how this problem can be addressed in consultation with the relevant authorities and the Secretary of State for Finance. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying something about living. We all know the tension that prevails in the housing market. There are shortages in both the purchase and rental markets. New construction is lagging behind the need. There is again a certain madness, which is pushing the consumer further and further to make a quick decision to buy or not. The government could act decisively on this point. What possibilities does the Minister see to protect consumers in this respect? Finally, a statement I would like to make. The request for the abolition of the Hills Act is just a matter of parking; let's just leave it the way it is now. However, I would like to touch on the issue of subsidies for greening the existing housing stock. There is a subsidy available, but then it's gone again. Can the Minister ensure that subsidies are made available throughout the year so that the greening objectives set by the cabinet can be better achieved in this area too? Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u308	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u309	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on behalf of DENK, I would like to welcome this new minister to the Chamber. A dual-national minister is an enrichment for Dutch politics. For DENK, diversity is a force, not a problem. I assume the Minister himself sees this as well. Besides, we have a secretary of state. He is the only Limburger among all the other Randstade cabinet members. You can also see that as a dual nationality. I wish him every success. I'm assuming he won't forget his roots. Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a few brief points today and ask a number of questions. I would like the Minister to answer all the questions and questions. Question 1. How does this minister view small parties? Does it consider small parties to be an enrichment of democracy or does it consider small parties to be a problem? She hasn't forgotten that D66 has ever started as a small rebellious party? DENK is concerned about the state committee parliamentary system. Under the guise of renewal of the system, a conservative reflex is hidden. What's going on? The establishment sees new parties emerging. The establishment doesn't like that. These new parties are sometimes difficult, ask sharp questions and do not always make it easy for the established order. So they're going to see what measures they can take to stop those parties. DENK suspects that they want to work with an electoral threshold. Minister, as a D66 minister, you can't make it into an electoral threshold, can you? Because you know that your party once stood on three seats, like DENK. What are you going to do to prevent this? Question 2 concerns the participation of citizens. Citizens don't feel heard. Citizens feel that their opinion does not matter and that they should not take part in the decision. Citizens are right about that, because what does the government do? It abolishes the consultative referendum. The 'no' in the Ukraine referendum was already too difficult for the previous government. The threat of 'no' in the event of a dragging event has already been ignored by the current government: this legislation must and will be implemented. The government... In this case, I want to look at D66. D66 doesn't want to listen to the citizens anymore. D66 wants to eavesdrop on the citizens. It's more or less becoming a wiretap. How does the D66 Minister feel about this? Aren't two D66 ideals thrown overboard here? Both the privacy of citizens and the participation of citizens are affected here. Question 3 is about the elected mayor. Minister, we expect you to finally get this done. Can you promise us that? The Netherlands is one of the few countries in Europe where the mayor is not yet elected by citizens. The Netherlands is in the democratic rear. This D66 minister has to do something about that. Question 4 is about the financing of Black Piet. DENK notes that this celebration in its present form is seen as discriminatory by many people. A study by the municipality of Amsterdam showed that almost 80% of Amsterdammers with a Surinamese or Antillean background experience the party as discriminatory. Something that is perceived as discriminatory should not be financed by Community money. Does the Minister share this reasoning? Is it prepared to look at what funding from the Empire and the municipalities goes to Zwarte Piet and how this funding can be stopped? Let me be clear: DENK is in favour of adjusting the Sinterklaas party and not of abolishing it. If the elements go out that are perceived as racist, we are fine with it. That is why we welcome the adaptation of Zwarte Piet, as happens in Amsterdam and Rotterdam for example, because a party is not a real party when groups of people suffer from it. Question 5 is about the threat to politicians. Local politicians are threatened by criminal organizations. That's what Brand Point research shows. Criminals try to change the policy to their advantage. How does the Minister feel about this? Will the Minister intervene to ensure the integrity of the public administration? Politicians are not only threatened by criminals. They are also sometimes threatened by media violence; yes, media violence. Some media come up with accusations that sometimes turn out not to be true at all. As a politician, accusations remain on you, even if they later turn out to be wrong. After all, all false accusations are kept on the Internet as facts. That's why DENK wants a fake news fund, which supports citizens and politicians legally and financially in their possible course of justice and which helps them to remove the fake news from the internet. We know that this minister wants to act fiercely against fake news from Russia, but we ask her if she also wants to do something about fake news from the Netherlands. The freedom of the press is also a great asset for us, but you must also have the freedom to sue the press if those bullshit stories are to be published. I am considering tabling a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u310	I've been talking to Mr Öztürk about it for a while, but he didn't respond to my question. So I'm going to ask that question again. Such a fund for helping victims of course sounds very good and very noble, but I just said in my input that DENK at least has loaded that suspicion by using all kinds of trolls, bots and fake sites to spread all kinds of news. So it's also good if DENK says: we really don't do that anymore. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna help create those victims yourself. And that can never be the intention. Would you stop that, Mr Öztürk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u311	I see a good partnership with D66. They're taking our campaign "Don't fall for it!" Over. That's fantastic. They also want to think about the fake news fund. That's already a win. Let's hold that. What DENK did in particular before the elections is to give transparency about what is happening in this house. We have shown the voting behaviour of MPs one-on-one. Yeah, some of the MPs are affected by that. Why? In the hall or in the mosques they tell a different story than what their voice shows here. I think that citizens have a right to know what their elected MPs are doing with their voices here. And we took advantage of that. At the moment when there is another Member of Parliament who says something different in society than what his voice shows here, we will make another video.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u312	The films of DENK are now known. The problem with these videos is that they are an extremely selective representation of a total of facts or of a whole debate. What your party's blinkers and stickers do is cut small pieces out of certain situations and then present them as truth. That could be called a form of fake news. There are also victims, and that they are victims, caused by your actions, by your party's actions. Now that may happen once by mistake or in the enthusiasm, but I would really like to ask you the following. You call for a fund for the victims of fake news, but if you sway all kinds of videos into the world in which you blackmail people on the basis of selective images, then you are the cause of the problem you want to fight. I don't think that's supposed to happen. So I would really like to ask you in all honesty: just stop doing that. Then be a man and stop it. And then go talk about a victim fund. Do not first create victims for which you then want to set up a fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u313	DENK makes movies, yeah. A debate like today lasts four hours. The young people who are up there aren't gonna listen to you for four hours. They want to see the highlights in two, three minutes. We're good at that, yeah. We'll show the essence in two, three minutes. As a result, we have brought a lot of young people to the polls thanks to the films and the Facebook action of DENK. We've revived politics again. We've got politics back on track. I think this has also been an example for other parties. I see D66 making movies, too. GroenLinks and PVV also make movies. I see even the President of the Chamber makes videos. You can't show something for four hours; you have to cut. As soon as you object and if there are any victims, I'd like to have a conversation with the victims. I want to do everything in my power to talk to the victims to see what pain they have suffered and what we can do about it, so that they no longer suffer that pain. I'm open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u314	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u315	So I really want to ask DENK to stop selective blackmailing certain people who do not like the political direction of DENK. If Mr Öztürk is prepared to do so, I would also be very pleased to look at a 'do not fall in' campaign. But if DENK continues to do so, unfortunately we cannot stick together, because then they do something they say they want to stop and that is not credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u316	The movies that DENK produces are really fantastic. The compliments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u317	Now what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u318	I see some fury, and I hear some, but what I mean is that this is the lesson material that you use in journalism programmes to show how you don't do it, how you don't let people come to their senses, how you manipulate and how you bring fake news into the world. I have only one question for Mr Öztürk: does DENK realize that this selective use can also cause fake news, or is it completely out of the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u319	It's special, isn't it? Former Minister Asscher also made a video about me. In one and a half minutes, he tried to show how a debate worked. He made me talk for 10 or 15 seconds, the rest of the time he was talking. I do not hear Mr Bishop on that. Neither does Mr Verhoeven. All parties in this Chamber make videos. Then you can point me out and tell me I'm making videos. Yes. We will continue to do so until the hypocrisy in this Chamber is gone. We're going after the hypocrites. Yes. If there are hypocritical MPs who tell other things in halls than here, we'll keep making those videos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u320	By the way, everything is broadcast live. Citizens can see everything at Debate Miss, so there is no secret or anonymous vote for anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u321	That is why I refer to these videos as teaching material for the journalism programmes, because that is where the whole fragment is shown. Then one of these cut videos comes along and immediately the mistake of it pops into the eye. It's very easy to say that. I thank Mr Öztürk for his response, but it is not an answer to my question. Does DENK realize that he is doing fake news distribution at the time when this is being selectively cut? And then I'd rather not have another you-bake like "no one's talking about Mr. Asscher's video." No, the debate is now with Mr Öztürk. Take a look inside and ask yourself: have we sufficiently realized that you can provide misleading information by cutting factual correctnesss and classifying them in a certain way? Or didn't you realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u322	Yes, DENK's videos are teaching material, for the press officers of the parties here. All these press officers watch our movies and then they advise you to make those movies as well as DENK. That's what you see at the Forum for Democracy. Forum has taken over many ways of how we deliver news. There are also a number of journalists in this Chamber, such as those from GeenStijl, who have reports that threaten members of parliament. I never hear Mr Bishop talk about that. I see Daily Standard, DDS, hate preaching on the Internet. I never hear Mr Verhoeven talking about that. That's because DENK deals with hypocrisy here. That hurts. I imagine that pain is taking you so far that you would like to ask me this kind of question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u323	Mr Bishop, I would really like to make a final point, otherwise we will continue to repeat ourselves on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u324	Mr President, I do indeed confine myself to a final remark. I note that Mr Öztürk once again expressly does not answer a simple question that has been put to him. And even when it comes to hypocrisy, some self-reflection is not wrong. I wish DENK a great deal of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u325	Pray for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u326	I didn't hear that last one. I didn't think that was very good. I have the following question for Mr Öztürk. We have now had a whole paper on the problems you have had with journalism in the past, on how DENK is doing, on how the films are doing. Mr Bosma has given an extensive account of how the PVV has been dealt with unfairly. Do you agree with me that it may seem to the outside world to be an enormous navel starring that we are talking about each other endlessly here in the House of Representatives and not about the things that are playing outside this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u327	Then I'd say, "Who started it?" I kept my story. I want to support the victims of fake news, and then I get stories like this. So who started it? I want to talk about the content. I want to solve a number of issues in society. I have seven proposals today, which I am taking to the Minister but also to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u328	I just want to underline that we are pretending that the Home Office is everything within this village of The Hague. I'd really appreciate it if we could switch to the things people outside this house really need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u329	I actually wanted to suggest that Mr Öztürk finish his story, but I would like to give Mr Middendorp an opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u330	I am also curious about the rest of the story, but I am glad that Mr Öztürk accepts that there is fake news, unlike some others here. I have one more question, which is in line with what Mr Verhoeven said. If I understand correctly, there is still no answer to the question whether Mr Öztürk will also help his own victims with the fund. Then maybe we're dealing with a ponzi scheme here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u331	If people feel victimized, I'm willing to talk to those people. I just turned that in. That was a clear gesture to Mr Verhoeven. When people talk to each other behind our backs and say they feel like victims, I'm sorry. I call them again to call and make an appointment. I'm willing to have a cup of coffee or tea with those people. But I'm assuming I can convince those people why we're doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u332	So you are in principle prepared to set up a fund to fund potential victims of DENK for legal proceedings against DENK?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u333	Look at what's happening in this society, look at how many council members and statesmen are being addressed by media or people who call themselves journalists. I've spoken to victims who have already paid tons of lawyers to get their rights back. That's what I'm talking about. I'm not talking about a few MPs who feel uncomfortable here or who have been exposed here. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about people who suffer from De Telegraaf's articles. You cannot bring De Telegraaf before the Council for Journalism in the Netherlands, because they are not members of it. If you're gonna take down De Telegraaf, you're gonna have to go to court. You'll have tens of thousands of dollars in lawyer fees. That's what I'm talking about. And you're working on yourself. I don't get it. I'm trying to help victims, actual victims, who suffer pain, families suffering from it, and you're working on your own, on the DENK movies. Get over it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u334	Mr. Middendorp, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u335	We're both dealing with victims. That is why I would like to make a serious comment on the proposal. Only, with the answer just given by Mr Öztürk, he did not answer the question, Madam President. He could do that by filling in "of DENK" behind "victims" everywhere: DENK victims. Then it's a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u336	I had hoped that Members of the European Parliament would leave these matters aside now and really look at the problems in the Netherlands. How can we help the victims of media violence, which is really there in the Netherlands; I have spoken to a lot of people? Being busy with DENK doesn't help these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u337	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u338	Administrative transparency. DENK stands for transparency, including in the field of foreign policy. Last week it emerged that British Minister Patel had meetings with Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Netanyahu. These meetings took place during a private holiday. While the British thought their minister was enjoying the beach at Tel Aviv, she sat at the table making holiday deals. She did not report these meetings, although she was obliged to do so. She therefore had to resign as Minister last week. DENK wants us to have a policy for this in the Netherlands. Can the Minister tell us what obligations ministers and State Secretary have in the area of transparency? Is this strictly regulated in the Netherlands, or could we make this policy a little more stringent? I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Question 7 is about the municipal reclassification. In the Netherlands more and more municipalities are merged. That might be good to give them a little body, but then you should also look at the other side, because maybe big municipalities are not ready to solve all the problems of the municipalities right now. The big cities are becoming more expensive and increasingly taken over by yuppies and expats, who have little connection to their neighborhood. In Amsterdam, for example, you see a strong crooked growth. For ordinary people, the inner city becomes priceless when people like Prince Bernhard Junior buy 102 properties and make heavy money from them. Young families flee the city or live far too small: children sleep with four in one bedroom and grandmother sleeps in the living room. Those are huge contrasts. Shouldn't you address these big cities with the question: can you handle all the problems? Or should we look at other solutions? Is the Minister prepared to look into that? Fair is fair, right? Perhaps you could encourage Prince Bernhard Junior to convert his own investments, in the form of 102 properties, into a housing corporation, so that he can also do something in return for society. Then I come to the reimbursement of city council members. Many parties have difficulty finding sufficient good council members. The work takes a lot of time and is not always well paid. In small municipalities, sometimes even less than €300 per month is paid. As a Chamber, we have transferred a great many tasks to the municipalities. So there's work coming in and people are working extra hours, but they don't get paid. Last week, the Dutch Association for Council Members called on this minister to increase the remuneration for council members in smaller municipalities. How do you feel about that, Minister? DENK would like you to talk to the Dutch Association for Council Members. I'm considering a motion on this. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. From the small congregations I go back to this cabinet. I wonder if this is not too much of a Randstad cabinet. When I look at the rulers, most of them come from the Randstad. When I look at the MPs, most of them are from the Randstad. DENK is in favour of a good balance in politics, so that all interests are sufficiently represented. We wonder how this minister, who, like many of her colleagues, lives in the Randstad, is going to represent all those millions of people who do not live in the Randstad in a good and honest way? Does the Minister share our concerns about over-representation of the Randstad in our democracy? Finally. This minister was once named by the NRC the most important woman in Mark Rutte's life. Well, I guess I'll just assume the NRC didn't write fake news. We welcome the fact that the Prime Minister is the most important woman in the Prime Minister's life. We would like to ask you if you could direct the Prime Minister a little bit, because the Prime Minister has sometimes had some weird outbursts in the past. He made statements like "I hate multicultural society," "pleasure!" And "Mo, fight in." Those are not really statements that belong to a prime minister who must be there for all Dutch. We would like to ask the Minister to use her qualities to address our Prime Minister, Mr Rutte, and to update on occasion. Finally, I wish the two rulers every success in their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u339	Thank you. This was the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-15-tweedekamer-3.u340	I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour, so we'll continue at 2:20 p.m. Then we do the work and then we do the debate on dividend taxation around 2.30 p.m.
