ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	Madam President. The contrast couldn't be greater. While on Palm Sunday in Coptic Churches in Tanta and Alexandria there was a message of Jesus' peaceful entry into Jerusalem, a message of love and forgiveness, while that service was in progress, those terrible attacks occurred and 44 people died during this massacre and many were injured. The grief is enormous. When will evil stop, so many local Christians in Egypt wonder aloud. It is a good thing that the Dutch Government has immediately condemned it, as we have done in the case of other atrocious attacks that are taking place anywhere in the world and which we have just had a memorial of. Today we live and mourn with the victims and the affected families. The events aren't on their own. There has been an increase in terror against headlines. IS who claimed the attacks has been violently active in the Sinai Desert for a long time. How does the Minister indicate the growth of terror in Egypt? Then, of course, the question is how to reduce IS in Egypt. How can headlines be better protected? A delegation from the Foreign Office was in Egypt in January. We then spoke to both the Coptic community and President Sisi. The latter has also indicated that we also want to protect the heads in our country. Yet it looks very much like it and many headlines also have the feeling that they are still outlawed. How can the Netherlands contribute to greater safety? It's just a state of emergency and muscle language isn't helping. Are there any indications that Egypt is really working on a sustainable security of vulnerable areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Van der Staaij for his questions. Like him, the cabinet was obviously very shocked by the attacks, just at a time when peace should have been celebrated or could have been celebrated. It is true, as Mr Van der Staaij says, that the attacks have been severely condemned on various sides, including by the Netherlands. But with just a conviction, we're not here. I think we are very much in agreement on that. Mr Koenders, my Foreign Minister, visited Egypt recently, as did the Chamber, and visited the Coptic Church in Cairo, which was hit by an attack in December. In bilateral contacts with the Egyptians, of course, it is always stressed that it is important to protect all citizens. As Mr Van der Staaij has just said, it is also the assessment of the Dutch government that the heads of the Egyptian government are as sweet to her as any other citizen in Egypt. It is also important to take a stand against the insecurity of all citizens, including now the headlines that have been so affected. What is the Netherlands doing now and what can it do? In the EU context, of course, we are calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to religious freedom. With the embassies, we work together on the interreligious dialogue through all kinds of programs. However, ISIS does not care very much about this; let us also be realistic about it. The attacks are part of an IS policy aimed at suppressing and expelling minorities, such as the Copts in Egypt. It goes without saying that the Netherlands, together with other countries, wants to be a strong front against this terrorist violence. We're working on it wider in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you to the Minister for her first reaction. An important question is what can be done to provide better protection. This has to do with concrete security measures, but also with measures against hate-stowing and the culture of disadvantage and intimidation. Does the Minister recognise the image that still exists in Egypt in relation to headlines? Despite the government's perhaps good intentions there, it is in practice lacking in dealing with hate-sowing and impunity. Will the Minister in practice press against the Egyptian Government and assist it in what can be done more and better? The second question I would like to ask is the following. Mr Voordewind has taken the nice initiative to invite the Coptic community in the Netherlands to visit Parliament. A meeting will be held this afternoon to share and discuss concerns with them. My question to the government is to follow that initiative and talk to the Coptic community in the Netherlands to consider its concerns and ask what else the government can do to improve security. We now rightly have a great deal of attention to these horrible events, to the blood sheet that has taken place in Egypt, but at the same time we can happily say that IS will not win the battle. Terrorism doesn't have the future. This actually came through very small messages, not so striking but still very beautiful and symbolic, expressed when in Karakosh in Iraq for the first time in years Christians could go to their church to celebrate palm sunday. That was ISIS territory, but ISIS has now been driven out there. They could go back there. It's all still very fragile, but it does show that eventually the darkness will not be able to drive out the light.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	The answer to Mr Van der Staaij's first question is affirmative. We will continue to talk to the Egyptian government and insist on the importance of providing adequate protection to all citizens in that country. I think it is appropriate to make two comments on Mr Van der Staaij's second question. After the attacks in December, the Coptic Pope in conversation with the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs indicated that the Coptic community there felt supported by the Egyptian government. It is, of course, important to hear that from them themselves. The Grand Mufti and the Muslim Brotherhood have also condemned the recent attacks. So these attacks are also widely condemned in Egypt. I think that's important. I will gladly pass on the request to the Dutch Coptic Christians to the Foreign Minister. I can't imagine that he wouldn't respond to that request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this session at 2 p.m., you remembered very well the victims of the Stockholm attack, and you also referred to the attacks in London, St Petersburg and Egypt. The Prime Minister was also here and spoke in the same terms. But what struck me was that the cause of all these attacks, Islam, was never mentioned. Hence my question to this minister who is here on behalf of the government. Does she recognise that Islam is the cause of all these attacks, and does she agree with me that as long as we refuse to name that cause, so just keep turning around it, we will be standing here very often to commemorate the victims of subsequent attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	I would like to mention them all now, but I believe that the cabinet is very clear about who the instigators and the perpetrators of these attacks are in so far as they are claimed. That is Islamic State, an organization that causes death and destruction in the Middle East and Europe and has a view on religiousity that, I think, is not shared by anyone here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	This minister too is now turning his back on it. The question is: is Islam the cause of these attacks or not? Does he play a part in that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	I said what I said. IS has a form of religiosity and an interpretation of a god that we do not share in any way. That seems extremely clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	Of course, fundamentalist Islam is behind this attack, as we have seen before. At the same time, Egypt is one of the last Islamic countries in which a large Christian minority has so far been able to live in relative security. There are 10% cups that belong to Egypt. We were there last year, even this year. I would very much like to see, where this Chamber and this cabinet are often so quick to condemn Egypt, whether it is about locking up the Muslim Brotherhood or about the Al-Azhar Mosque, today we also send a message to the President of Egypt that we expect him to continue his policy, that we will also support him in securing the headlines, rather better than has been the case so far, and that this should also be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	President Sisi has also convened his National Defence Council after tragic attacks. He instructed members of his government authorities to visit and investigate the affected churches. State of emergency has been declared. The President has also indicated in words that he wants to protect all sections of the population in Egypt. We support him in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	The Netherlands has also provided radar systems. It is still waiting for the French ships on which they stand. Maybe the Minister can say something about that. But what else could the Netherlands do? We have a Dutch embassy there, which is commissioned to work on religious freedom and the protection of minorities. I know that's where interfaith dialogues are held. But what can the Netherlands do specifically for people threatened in Egypt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	The most important encouragement we can give is to support and encourage the policy in this area, and I would like to stress this point in Mr Sisi's report. I believe that in a motion the Chamber asked the Cabinet to reserve 1 million within the Human Rights Fund for programmes aimed at promoting religious freedom. After all, protecting people also means giving them the freedom to profess their faith or their views in freedom. We carry out this in full, including through programmes from the embassy in Cairo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	Unfortunately, over the past week, we have seen again what the horrible politics of the IS-fascists are doing in the world. IS attacks innocent people, in this case headlines in Egypt, who belong to a minority, with the aim of establishing its barbaric system. I think it is very good that the Minister, in bilateral talks with Sisi, will insist on ensuring the security of the headlines. Colleagues here say Sisi is doing his best. That may be true, but there is still a huge distrust. The heads themselves have also indicated that they do not feel sufficiently protected. My question to the Minister is: how will she make this known and how will we get it back? My second question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	No, no, no. You may ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	No, that wasn't short. That was a very long question. I'll let you finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. My second question is: how does the Minister view the analysis that the fight of the IS-fascists is moving from other conflict areas to countries such as Egypt and targeting minorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	I have just answered the first question. We will, of course, continue to raise this in direct talks. President Sisi has decided to use the Egyptian army to protect certain buildings and the people who live or want to live in those buildings or to those church buildings. So it's more than just words. However, we will continue to raise this issue, including in the bilateral relationship with Egypt. We have now received no reports that the headlines would not feel protected. But should those messages reach us, we will have a very specific conversation with the authorities in Egypt. We continue to monitor the situation closely on the ground and we are also talking to the community here. The second question is a rather general one. This is an analysis of how IS operates. We all share the analysis that IS, now that he is under such pressure in Iraq, is also focusing on other areas. The question is whether IS will further expand that strategy. I can't look into his intelligence, but it's a big concern of all of us. It is not just attacks that are being carried out here on behalf of IS. Also in other places in the region people thought they were safer than they turned out to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	Innocent people who were in Mass and celebrating peace have fallen victim to the horrific violence of ISIS. If you're a Christian in the Middle East or North Africa, you're not sure about your life anymore. It is an extremely serious situation. What can we do, in addition to discussing, moral support and condemnation, in concrete terms, in the direction of Sisi too, I think he deserves that support, and in countries such as Algeria and Tunisia, in order to prevent such attacks from taking place? What can we do to ensure that the ghost of radical Islam............................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	What the Netherlands does and can do, we need to do especially at EU level. As a country alone, we can speak encouraging words. We can and must support programmes, but I believe that there should not only be a massive condemnation of violence. We must also establish with the countries in dialogue what they would and would not need from us. Relations have intensified in recent years. The same applies to relations with countries such as Algeria and Tunisia. There is therefore room for dialogue. We're having that conversation. If there are any specific questions which are particularly relevant to the Netherlands or which we would like to discuss, we will of course let the Chamber know. The intensification of the dialogue is certainly taking place in cooperation with the other Member States and the Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	My question may be brief. Finally, the Minister also talks about Europe. I would have missed that for a moment in this debate, including on her part. Can it promise that Europe too, in the clearest terms, shows its horror at the growing lack of protection of this group which has suffered after attack?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	Certainly, this is a matter between the Member States, but also between the Member States and the European Commission. This is also part of our relations with that region.
