ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u1	The next item is the Article 100 letter on the Dutch contribution to Resolute Support, Afghanistan, in 2018. Here too, we are talking about a plenary session. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u2	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet wants to send soldiers to Afghanistan in 2018 for a contribution to Operation Resolute Support, knowing that the war that has been going on for sixteen years has become infinite and counterproductive. There is no less but much more terrorism, not only in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya, but also here in Europe. Although the Minister says he wants to contribute to the construction of Afghanistan, the US policy is a very different one: not nation building, but killing terrorists. Mr. Chairman. The minister thinks he can model Afghan society with billions and bombs and troops as he sees fit, but the practice is that the Taliban are moving forward, that Al-Qaeda has not been defeated and that many civilian deaths are happening. The wretched reality for many Afghans is that the Taliban are moving forward, that peace negotiations are failing and that more than 220,000 have been killed since 2001. Last year alone, 600,000 Afghans had to flee. Despite the many billions pumped into the Afghan security services, it has still not been possible to guarantee and pay for its own security. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that after more than 16 years of war targets have not been achieved in Afghanistan;]] [[considers that it is unrealistic to expect that the current strategy will achieve its objectives in the foreseeable future;]] [[calls on the Government not to extend the military contribution to NATO Resolute Support mission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-618]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u3	We do not support this military mission either. But of course my group wishes the Dutch soldiers who will be sent to Afghanistan very much success and a safe home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ten Broeke on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u5	Mr. Chairman. We've been in Afghanistan for over 15 years. The Dutch contribution varied from lead nation in Uruzgan, commandos fighting under Enduring Freedom, F-16's over Chora, training police officers in Kunduz and now, under German leadership, training the ANDSF, the security forces in Afghanistan. Afghanistan is no longer the base for global terror. The goal, the Taliban underneath and Al-Qaeda out, has largely been achieved. But as expected, Afghans cannot yet hold that success on their own everywhere. So the international community is holding them for a while. The Netherlands, as part of that coalition, continues to do so. That's the VVD's approval. But it is still too easy in this Chamber to say that it has been pointless and that successes are being exaggerated. Our military successes are being unfairly played down. In 2001, 95% of the country was in the hands of the Taliban, which in turn were held hostage by a foreign terrorist network with training camps and command centres: Al-Qaeda. Now Afghanistan is largely in the hands of an Afghan government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u6	Sixteen years this war has been going on. Billions have been pumped into this war. Can Mr Ten Broeke tell me when democracy will then be established in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u7	Never.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u8	Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u9	For 16 years there has been a war, with the Americans also having a different strategy. There are civilian casualties. The Taliban are advancing. Terrorism is only fed. Then it is incredibly unwise and naive that you should be blind to this because NATO is asking you to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u10	What's naive is that you think we're there to bring democracy. That's naive. In fact, that means that there is little distinction between the Bush administration trying to bring democracy at the time and the SP Group here tonight. The view of the VVD Group has always been very clear. We were there to get Al-Qaeda out of it again. Al-Qaeda was at that time a foreign terrorist network that had training centres everywhere and could form a base of action. That ended up getting 9/11.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u11	I suggest you move on, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u12	I think it's excellent. I don't want anything else. That's what I'm here for. As I said, in 2001, 95% of the country was in the hands of the Taliban, and that is what I am saying to Mrs Karabulut, and now most of the country is in the hands of the government. In 2001, photography was banned and now there are 75 TV channels, 200 radio stations and more than 500 printed media. In 2001, there was no democracy and no functioning government. True democracy will never come, but we have had three presidential elections and we are going to the third parliamentary elections, in which 63 parties will participate. There are also more than 120,000 security forces employed by the army and the police. In 2001, less than a million children went to school, only boys, and the literacy rate was 12%, now 9 million children go to school, 40% of them girls, while the literacy rate has tripled. In 2001, 5% of the population lived within an hour walking distance of a medical post, now 60% of the population. In 2001 people had to watch a stoning, now you can voluntarily go to a pop concert. Mr. Chairman. It's not Switzerland. It's not Sweden. And it's not going to be the Netherlands either. But Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands no longer need to see Afghanistan as an existential threat to their own security. And now our soldiers are going to make another contribution to that. I'm proud of that. I'm proud of all the military and their contribution. My group wishes them every success and a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u13	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the general discussion last week and just now in the interrupting debate, we asked ourselves whether our presence in Afghanistan is working positively towards the development of the country. Everyone will have their own grades. They're often contradictory, but they're all true. Development is not a linear process, certainly not in an already exceptionally complicated country such as Afghanistan. For example, the fact that life has improved so much for women and girls in cities is as true as there are still far too few girls going to school. And yes, life expectancy has increased by six years since 2001, but it is also true that 61 is still far too low. The increase in freedom of expression is as true as the Taliban has gained influence in many places.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u15	These are all things that are indeed true, but the question that needs to be asked here is: is it necessary to prolong this infinite war with immense civilian casualties and a moving Taliban, or should we abandon this strategy and indeed focus fully on where we can support development in the Afghan way rather than the way NATO wants it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u16	I will of course come to the final balance as my group does, but I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut that I am convinced that one cannot do without the other in this case. In other words, the fact that we are contributing to the training of the Afghan army, the Afghan security apparatus, contributes to conditions in which peace and development can in principle take place. I'm not saying it's a linear relationship, but I honestly believe it's one condition for the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u17	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u18	The Americans are pumping 5 billion a year into that safety device and the Afghans are still unable to do so. A lot of soldiers are ghost soldiers. You know all that, don't you? I come back to the core: is this military mission necessary? I hear, among many NGOs, that they can leave without security and can go anywhere, but that is not the case for the military. It is precisely the military presence, which is seen as occupation, that hinders progress and peace negotiations. Does GroenLinks dare to look at that in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u19	GroenLinks dares a lot, especially when it comes to looking at something. But this is about cause and effect. There's a mission. There have been developments in Afghanistan. Some for the better and others, unfortunately, for the worse. I don't think we disagree at all. Mrs Karabulut links these two things directly together. She says that a number of things are going wrong in Afghanistan, and that is because we train the army there, for example. I don't think that relationship is that linear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u20	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u21	Because, and this is in line with this little debate, which is exactly the effect of Western involvement on all these developments, we will never fully know, I also say to Mrs Karabulut. Nevertheless, in this Parliament too, we are constantly faced with the choice. Do you or do you not agree to the broadcast of Dutch women and men to places far from home, where the circumstances are difficult and the work inherently dangerous? My group, too, has made that assessment again. One thing is certain for us: only with a professional military force paying attention to the rights of the civilian population can the Afghan government make progress towards peace and development. The trainings provided by the Netherlands in the context of Resolute Support are of the utmost importance. But equally important is that they go hand in hand with investment in development and peace talks. And so the statements made by the US President, Mrs Karabulut, also referred to us there with great concern. I hope and expect the cabinet to report in the progress report on the commitment and objectives of this mission and of our allies, and that it will ring the bell if changes appear to be taking place in the direction which the US President apparently advocates. Having said this, and in the confidence that the Netherlands will continue to use an integrated approach in Afghanistan, I agree, on behalf of my group, to extend the Dutch contribution to Resolute Support. I wish everyone involved, the military, the diplomats, but also the development workers, who are all doing such important work, good luck in their work and a safe return to their loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u23	Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan was the first victim of the United States' policy of violence, a policy of violence called war on terror. Indeed, such a name soon justifies a war, because who could be against the fight against terrorists? But the reality is very different. The reality is that in 2017, the Taliban has 40% of Afghanistan under its control. The reality is that, since the American invasion in 2001, Afghanistan has been an extremely unsafe country where there is permanent war. And the reality is that George Bush's decision in 2001 cost almost a quarter of a million innocent people their lives in Afghanistan. Is this the result that we have in mind? Are these the security, peace and democracy we wanted to bring to Afghanistan? I don't think so. Mr. Chairman. The future of Afghanistan does not look bright either. There are still dozens of fights in Afghanistan every day. In addition, we see that more and more American soldiers are being deployed in Afghanistan. This while Donald Trump himself was the one who said: "Let's get out of Afghanistan. (...) we washed billions there. Nonsense!" But his presidency seems to have led him to different insights. By stakeholders. Interested parties who make billions of dollars selling weapons, ammunition, combat planes, tanks, bombs and so on. For them, war is big business. No war is no money. Mr President, I will conclude. DENK advocates a fair policy. If we really want to bring peace and security to the world, then we also need a different approach. Because America's approach to invasions has not brought peace and security to the world. That is why we must stop the war solidarity that the Americans expect from us. We must go for our own approach, focusing on conflict prevention, diplomacy, reconstruction and development aid. Yes, Mr. Van Ojik: more diplomats to those places and no more bombs. I have already mentioned the three criteria of DENK in the previous debate. The same applies to Afghanistan. Our criteria are not being met. That is why we do not support this mission. However, we wish the military who will take part in this mission a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS. No one wanted to interrupt you, Mr Öztürk. They think it's no use. Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u25	Thank you, Mr President. The 50PLUS election programme states that international cooperation is of great importance for the Netherlands, and that an active role within NATO and the United Nations is important. It can be noted that the 50PLUS group does have some reserve by the year in, year out, participating in missions, especially now that the armed forces as a whole have a long overdue maintenance. We welcome the commitment that the Minister has just made to look very closely at rotational schedules with the participation of more and other countries. The same applies to our contribution to Afghanistan as I said earlier in the debate on MINUSMA: taking part in missions where our women and men are in unacceptable danger cannot be discussed. We all know the figures of the military who have been killed or injured in Afghanistan over the years. We understand that the cabinet cannot guarantee the security of our military in Afghanistan, but we have the impression that everything is being done to ensure that our people can do their work as safely as possible. It has also been pointed out by the cabinet that small steps are being taken in the right direction in Afghanistan with regard to issues such as the position of women, health care and a process of democratization; it has just been raised by colleagues. They are small steps and sometimes we may go backwards again, but in the end we see a process that seems to be moving in the right direction. That is why the 50PLUS Group agrees with the proposal to extend our contribution to the Resolute Support mission by one year. Our group wishes all our men and women success and a safe return to their homes, both those who are going to serve in Mali and those who are in Afghanistan or are going there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u27	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has been in Afghanistan for 15 years. We have hink-step-jumped through the country: from Baghlan to Uruzgan, from Uruzgan to Kunduz, and from Kunduz to Mazar. One of the lessons I would like to draw and which I also drew during the AO is that that is unwise. Long-term presence in a country is one, but preferably in the same place. Together with the other partners in the international community, we have made an unmistakable commitment, but also achieved results. Mr Ten Broeke has just read it out. I will not do that completely, but the millions of girls who went to school, the drop in child mortality, the increase in life expectancy and the free press in Afghanistan are, of course, great steps. In the area of democracy, too, great steps have been taken, not only because elections have been held, which have been quite reasonable, but also because I might have seen children prefer to play at some point in my personal experience. They were lined up and at the end of the line they got the ink on their thumb. That wasn't a bully game or an annoying game. That was something they liked, which they were looking forward to. Very flat: such a small seed in children's heads can mean a lot later on. It's small, but it could be big. Mr. Chairman. Of course, my group also recognizes the downside of this. Mr Van Ojik mentioned them, too. The insecurity is increasing. The presence of the Taliban is worrying. And it's reprehensible that the violence is increasing. You can't look away from that. But the solution is not less commitment, but more doing our best, in this case. That is also crucial, because this mission consists of training the Afghan military so that it can counter the Taliban and the influences that come with the Taliban. So that makes sense, too. But then it is essential, as I have said in general consultation, that we address the shortcomings of the ANDSF, the Afghan army: the lack of staff, corruption, low morale, insufficient leadership and late payout. I am pleased that the ministers have made it very clear that this is also their priority. Mr President, briefly on the ICC, the International Criminal Court. The ICC wants to investigate war crimes in Afghanistan. That seems important to me. I also think it is important for the Cabinet to state clearly that it will support research wherever possible. In conclusion, Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would like to express my support for the extension of this mission. I wish all the soldiers involved and their home front all success and a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u28	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this debate, too, I can speak on behalf of the SGP. Mr. Chairman. The NATO mission in Afghanistan shows how slow progress can be in a country and how fragile it can be. As the international community withdrew, the Taliban could gain more ground, especially in rural areas. Following the withdrawal of the international community, Afghanistan is now in danger of being repressed by the Taliban. This could negate many positive developments, such as in health and education, especially for girls and women, as colleagues have already mentioned. It could also slip the country back into a hotbed of international terror, with new Al-Qaeda training camps. We must not allow this to happen. The attacks on the Twin Towers in America led to the raid in Afghanistan. Of course, it would have been better if we had made more progress with the Resolute Support mission and we would have ended up in phase 2. The mission could then concentrate on the higher framework in Kabul. But unfortunately, the harsh reality is different. Military victories are not in sight. In fact, there is a military impasse. It must be seen through negotiations, by stopping the Taliban's supply lines from Pakistan, but also by combating internal corruption. It's inexplicable that we can't give the right people the right salary. Until then, the Netherlands, together with 38 other countries, will have to continue to contribute, if it is not to go from bad to worse. The reinforcement of the Afghan army is now focusing on training special forces and independence of the Afghan Air Force. That is why the Christian Union Group will also agree to the one-year extension. We wish the home front and the military on mission much strength and wisdom and a preserved homecoming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u30	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u31	Mr. Chairman. Today we conclude the discussion on the contribution of the Netherlands to Resolute Support: support for Afghanistan in building a security sector. That is not the only contribution made by the Netherlands. Mr Van Ojik has already spoken about this. We are cooperating, together with the Afghans, in the development of the country, of the rule of law, and in education, for women and girls, but of course also for boys. And we support the peace process that is now being implemented by the region itself, the so-called Kabul process. Mr. Chairman. Progress in Afghanistan is certainly not linear. Sometimes three steps are taken forward and we suddenly see another decline. But that's no reason to give up. I have been able to see for myself how very important it was what we could do for the training of women and girls when it comes to their work in the legal sector. If there is a female judge, a female lawyer or a female police officer, women dare to press charges faster and more quickly. This is extremely important and I welcome the fact that our contribution to the security sector is not just a contribution to the hard infrastructure, but also to the building of the rule of law. All things considered, my group concludes that it can support the government's commitment to Afghanistan. We wish the men and women involved in this mission, the military but also the diplomats and the development workers, all success and all strength. That's what we wish for their home front. They must miss their loved ones again for a period. Of course, and above all, we wish everyone a safe return.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr De Roon of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the first term of this debate, the rulers and many MPs were eagerly looking for some light on developments in Afghanistan. After a long search a few were indeed found, for example that there is now more freedom of press in Afghanistan. It is certainly good that the public can fully hear the news from Afghanistan. For example, today we learned that the Afghan news sites have announced that there was another attack by the Taliban last night, with three security posts being taken over by the Afghan police, four villages being taken over by the Taliban and one policeman being killed; three, by the way, according to the Taliban. Well, we know that. And last night there was one like so many in the past year. This is exemplary for the current situation in Afghanistan. The countryside is abandoned and only the large population centres are still protected. When I take stock of 15 years of aid to Afghanistan, it really goes in the wrong direction. The Taliban is already holding 40% of the country, and IS has been active since 2015, albeit not on a large scale. The international community, and also our cabinet, is afraid to link any longer to the presence of NATO troops in Afghanistan. But what we do know is that the Netherlands has been actively involved in these failed attempts to bring stability to Afghanistan since 2002. The cost of this is EUR 1 billion in development aid money and EUR 2 billion in the Dutch military effort, not to mention the human cost of killing and wounded. Moreover, the fact that the Netherlands has spent more than EUR 3 billion on Afghanistan does not fall within the scope of the US contribution. For example, the Americans, converted and corrected for inflation, have spent more aid money on Afghanistan than on the Marshall Plan. And even now that the Marshall Plan 2.0 isn't helping, our government still wants to continue on the same course. The PVV really doesn't understand that. This means that I have to conclude that my group does not support the extension of this Dutch contribution to Resolute Support. Of course, in this case too, we wish the Dutch soldiers who are deployed and their neighbors much strength and above all a safe return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u34	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Arissen of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The Party for Animals has never supported Dutch contributions to the war in Afghanistan. That war has caused the Afghan people a great deal of misery. It was the beginning of a permanent war that made the Netherlands part of it. As a thank you for the Dutch participation, our country was allowed to provide a secretary-general of NATO and join the G20. But was that worth the high price? We certainly don't think so. There is still a long way to go in Afghanistan for peace. This becomes painfully clear when we look at the staggeringly high number of civilian casualties. So far, that's about 220,000 civilians. We're gonna have to let that work on us for a while. It began in 2001 when President Bush announced the war on terror following the terrorist attack on the Twin Towers. From that time on, there has been a disastrous war in Afghanistan and the end is far from being in sight. There are more terrorists. Not only Al-Qaeda but also IS now has established territory in Afghanistan. Other jihadist groups have increased in size and number and the Taliban now holds 40% of Afghanistan. The rural areas have been abandoned. There are millions of refugees. Last year alone, that was 600,000 people. And there's corruption, too. Mr. Chairman. The mission of our Dutch military was supposedly training the Afghan security services, a police mission, so that Afghanistan can protect and achieve the security of its citizens itself. That didn't work out, and that's an understatement. Mr. Chairman. Afghanistan is and was of particular political and strategic importance. We've been chasing other countries for years. Military interventions cannot impose democracy or emancipation. The German-Jewish philosopher Hannah Arendt wrote about this as early as the 1970s that this is only destructive and that violence in our world is only a means of achieving political and economic power. She wrote about this in her book On Violence. It is precisely poverty, a weak rule of law and no hope for the future that poses the greatest threat of radicalisation and thus terrorism. The Animal Party still finds it incomprehensible that we have not spent all the money, knowledge and energy available in building the judiciary, a free press and democratisation in education. Because indeed, two thirds, about 40% almost, of the girls are not going to school right now. We should have done something about that and everything that we believe is part of civilisation, including standing up for the weakest. Mr. Chairman. Therefore, my group can only conclude once again that the Animal Party will not support the continuation of the Dutch contribution to Resolute Support in Afghanistan. But of course we wish the military very much success and a safe home journey and their neighbors much strength. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u36	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA. He has three minutes' speaking time. Three minutes!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u37	I thought it was seven. I got it wrong. Mr. Chairman. The government's decision to extend the mission in Afghanistan was signed on 11 September this year. Sixteen years ago, 9/11 took place. That's why we went to Afghanistan. Now there have been successes, but there are also setbacks. In this sense, I support Mr Van Ojik's argument that both are true. One doesn't make the other less true and one doesn't make the other more beautiful or worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u38	I was wondering what the main objective of the CDA was with this mission. We have heard from the VVD that it is mainly up to her to keep NATO and the US friendly. D66 wants to send girls to school, forgetting that a lot of girls can't go to school because of the growing insecurity. What is the purpose of the CDA Group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u39	There are more, but I will mention two of them. One is to bring peace to the people there themselves and two is to ensure that Afghanistan is not a free haven for terrorism, also in the interests of the security of the rest of the world and therefore also for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u40	Then perhaps it is right for Mr Van Helvert and the CDA to realise that at the moment the American occupation of Afghanistan, with a lot of bombs being thrown, makes peace impossible and that, two, terrorism has not been defeated, but that the Taliban is advancing. Al-Qaeda and ISIS are also based there. We, Mr Van Helvert, are also affected by this here in Europe. Is that likely to change your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u41	No, that doesn't change the judgment, and I also want to explain to you why. This is a war and about civilian casualties, on which Mrs Karabulut organised a meeting. We also heard a human rights lawyer say that the Netherlands is not doing so badly in this area, but that a number of civilian victims have not done well and that a lawyer stands up for that. If you make those few exceptions a rule in this debate, when we are talking about the Dutch commitment, I think that is a wrong signal. In addition, in the case of bombing, you will always have civilian casualties, as the human rights lawyer said. I am thinking of the war in the Netherlands. Let me just say that, but I'll take those three minutes. If you look at the last war we waged in the Netherlands, there are also bombings from the coalition, on cities such as Pernis, Amsterdam-Noord, Den Helder, Haarlem and Hengelo, where homes, shops and schools are also affected. In the Netherlands, the Allies bombed the District of Middeldijken in Rotterdam, just like Nijmegen and Eindhoven, with many civilian casualties. We all regret them, because that is terrible, but we are very grateful that these terrible civilian casualties have not led to the same decision by the Allies; to stop this war, because that intervention has led to democracy in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u42	Now Mr Öztürk is there, of course. Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u43	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert says that the Netherlands is not doing so badly when it comes to civilian casualties. Over the last 16 years, 220,000 civilian casualties have occurred; in 16 years in Afghanistan. Mr President, normally you will hear me from the back, but things are said here behind my back and you will not hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u44	Who was that? In the hallway, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Finish your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u45	In Airwars' report, we score the worst as a country. In principle, we do not know how many civilian casualties we are causing, so how can you say that we are doing quite well on our own?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u46	I'm quoting the human rights lawyer. He said that the Netherlands didn't do so bad in principle. Moreover, when we talk about civilian casualties, Mr Öztürk mentions the number of 220,000, and I also say to Mr Öztürk: who caused them to fall? We are talking in this debate about the Dutch contribution to the mission, training police officers to strengthen the rule of law. Let me be honest with Mr Öztürk of DENK: if you systematically mention 220,000 civilian casualties in the Dutch police training debates, which can make the direct link between the training of those police officers and those victims, then I find that a really wrong signal to the women and men who are doing fantastic work in Afghanistan to achieve precisely the opposite, and I do not hear that sound from DENK at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u47	Mr Van Helvert is trying to make a bit of a nationalistic sound, but that aside. Surely you're telling a weak story the moment you say: a lawyer said this and that. As a parliamentarians, you must know how many civilian casualties we have caused, but you do not know that. We don't get the data as a room. Airwars says we're the worst when it comes to civilian casualties, but you don't know that, and the people behind me don't know that. We act like we know that. My second point is: let us not say hypocritically that we only train policemen, that we only do charitable things there; let us not do that. We have also done things there that have resulted in civilian casualties; let us also be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u48	Mr Van Helvert, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u49	Mr. Chairman. I am sorry to say that in such an important debate, I should like to say that it was deliberate or not, because they were present at all the debates and they were confusing things. Indeed, the Netherlands bombs, but not in Afghanistan. In Afghanistan, we train police officers to give the rule of law a chance there. At the moment that DENK consciously brings in civilian victims of bombing in a completely different country when it comes to the Dutch mission, to the deployment of our women and men in Afghanistan, I find that deliberately creating a false image that does not do justice to the great commitment of our people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u50	And now I have to give Mr Öztürk the floor for a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u51	For 16 years we have been supporting a policy that the President of America is currently saying: we are going there to kill people and are not going to build the country anymore. That policy supports you as a CDA. The moment you support that policy by standing behind America and sending military forces, you will have to bear the responsibility for the actions of that policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u52	I suggest you move on, Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u53	We do this not only with America, but also with many other countries...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u54	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u55	For example, a country like Turkey also supplies 659 soldiers in Afghanistan. I wonder what Mr Öztürk thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u56	No, no, don't ask Mr Öztürk, because he's already been. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u57	We'll do that some other time. Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to say that Mr Van Ojik's assessment, namely that both things are true side by side, is a good one. We should not wage the propaganda war in the countries themselves about each other's successes or losses. Mr. Chairman. The country cannot yet stand on its own feet, because the Taliban remains strong and ISIS also has foot on the ground. It must be prevented from falling prey once again to radicalist terror, which is also a threat to the West. NATO Mission Resolute Support gives firm support to Afghanistan through training, advice and assistance. The CDA has been supporting this mission for years. We must enable the Afghans to defend themselves and build their country. Several requests have been made to the Netherlands to do more. Although it beeps and cracks at the Department of Defense, there may be opportunities to do something extra on a limited scale. The cabinet examines the possibilities and has asked for additional information. The Commander of the Armed Forces spoke of a stepwise method: first we are clear about what one wants from us and then the question of whether Defence can handle it in conjunction with the other missions. Can the Secretary of Defense indicate how this process is going? When does she expect to be able to inform the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The CDA strongly supports this extension. We wish our military and their home front all success and strength, and a preserved homecoming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u58	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This too is a third-term plenary of the two deadlines that we have had in general consultation with each other. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its contribution to the debate on the extension of the Dutch contribution to Resolute Support and for the overwhelming majority of support. I sincerely believe that Resolute Support serves stability in the region and Afghanistan. A safe and stable Afghanistan is also in the interest of the Netherlands. I believe that a number of Members have rightly said that it should not be allowed to fall back into a free haven for terrorism. Moreover, stable Afghanistan is expected to lead to a reduction in irregular migration to Europe. The members of the Chamber rightly said that Afghanistan has many challenges and that the Afghan security forces cannot yet face them on their own. That's why we train and assist them, to come up with a bit more professionalism over and over again and to be able to deal with a number of things independently. Our Dutch contribution to Resolute Support contributes to the independence of ANDSF. That is what we discussed in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u60	The Minister mentions three arguments why she wishes to continue this mission. Firstly, the fight against terrorism. I note that Al-Qaeda and even ISIS have settled in the country. Secondly, the prevention of refugee flows. We note that 600,000 Afghans fled last year. Thirdly, training security forces. We know that there are also ghost soldiers. The argument remains that NATO and President Trump are asking us to do so. Is that the main reason for continuing this mission, which we all know is irresponsible and completely pointless?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u61	I do not share Mrs Karabulut's analysis. In general consultation we also exchanged this point. Moreover, I must also, of course, express my thanks on behalf of the BZ colleagues and BH-OS, who were also present at that debate, because it is also partly their responsibility. We're not convincing each other now. I don't convince Mrs Karabulut and she doesn't convince me. I do share what Mr Van Ojik has said, namely that the relationships that exist are not all linear. I also share what Mrs Ploumen has said, namely that there are improvements. Mr. Ten Broeke has listed a whole list. There have been improvements. In the end, the rule of law is also important to us. That is the goal that we are ultimately striving for. Of course, a political process is always better, but we need to support it, also in view of what we have already achieved. In general consultation, my colleagues and myself have been asked to indicate a number of points of profit. They are always small steps, sometimes forward and sometimes a bit backwards, but there are a lot of steps to indicate. I believe that we have exchanged this and I have to say that we do not convince each other on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u62	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u63	I wasn't at all under the impression that I would convince the minister now. I would like the Minister to look at the facts. Those facts are that this mission, this whole military operation led by the Americans, is counterproductive, that billions are being pumped into it, that there are civilian casualties, that there are refugees, that it brings more terrorism, and that the only reason left is that the minister and this cabinet continue to go blindly after the Americans and NATO at the expense of the Afghans and at the expense of our own security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u64	I do not share this in any way. We're just a NATO ally. We are there ourselves, and we make our own considerations about this, and we have always done so. I sincerely believe that this will contribute to the objectives I have just mentioned. And that's all I want to do for now. Many have rightly said that strengthening the entire Afghan security apparatus is a long-term process. We do take steps, and sometimes we fall back. It is not the case at the moment that we can leave everything to ANDSF. I sincerely hope that this will be possible in the long term. I would like to comment on a number of questions that have been asked. Mr Van Ojik asked whether I could discuss the situation regarding Trump's policy and the Americans in the progress report and how I see it in relation to Afghanistan. The answer to that is yes. Moreover, we do not have any real progress reports in this context. We always discuss this point, including with the United States. I noted this in my first NATO ministerial; we discussed this with Mr Mattis at that time. We'll discuss the situation in Afghanistan. I will, of course, take these points into account. Mr Van Ojik has mentioned it a little more broadly. I can say a little bit more about it, but I don't think this is necessary right now. I shall take these points into account in the report of such a ministerial. I think that's best. Mr Sjoerdsma asked about the International Criminal Court in The Hague. We are all here, I think, proud that The Hague is the city of international law. We all know, I think, that the criminal court and the prosecutor are independent, too. The Netherlands therefore does not interfere in the substance of investigations and decisions of the International Criminal Court. I cannot therefore anticipate the consequences of a possible investigation or the possible effects of one of the investigations, but I can tell Mr Sjoerdsma that the Netherlands supports the court in its fight against impunity and that we will do everything in our power to support it permanently. I thought those were the only questions that had been asked to me during this period. Then all I have left is the motion in part No. 618 by Mrs Karabulut. I have the same opinion on this as on the motion tabled during the previous debate. This is contrary to the cabinet decision to deploy military, so I must discourage this motion. I would like to close by thanking the Chamber for its confidence in the mission in both Mali and Afghanistan. I would also like to wish our soldiers and their families success and strength from this place. Above all, I hope, with all of you, that all the soldiers will return home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u65	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-22.u66	The motion tabled will be put to the vote next week.
