ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	Good morning. First of all, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for OCW. He's here today as a consultant. I would also like to welcome all Members. Today we are holding the first term of the Chamber on Mr Bishop and Mr Rog's own-initiative proposal. In particular, I would like to welcome the initiators, as well as the supporter of the initiators, Mr Leertuwer, an associate of the SGP Group. During this debate, as many as five Members will make their maiden speech, namely Mrs Becker, Mrs Westerveld, Mr Kwint, Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Van den Hul. After every maiden speech we stop for congratulations. So that's what we're gonna do per person. At maidenspeeches there is also a special rule in this house; we all know that. During a maiden speech there is no interruption. The Members mentioned are therefore given the opportunity to speak freely once, without these difficult interruptions. I give the floor to Mrs Becker, who is the first to make her maiden speech on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, many thanks to the authors for their efforts to bring this initiative proposal to the Chamber. The initiative legislative proposal we are debating today is of a very special calibre. This deletes the legal basis for a mandatory mid-term diagnostic test, an obligation that does not exist and a basis that no one relies on. In secondary schools in the Netherlands, nothing will change if this initiative legislative proposal is adopted. It is therefore a proposal with no effect in practice. For people who work in education, that might sound like music to the ears. When I talk to teachers I have several in my family They tell me that in recent years The Hague has poured out too many demands on education, that there has been more paperwork, that they have ever chosen a profession out of passion and conviction, but sometimes there is too little time to really teach. Surely much more than I, a starting MP, will have heard these stories by my fellow education spokesmen. They hear stories from teachers who want space to fill out their profession from their own professionalism. I can imagine that very well. Teachers deserve that space, too. My own history teacher, for example, never kept perfectly to the imposed planning. If there was actually a lesson planned on the Renaissance, he could simply decide to tell us about the protests of the Provos in the 1960s. He was one of his own once. Everyone who was in his class still remembers his stories. He is now retired, but Mr Kaper is still in the village where I come from. He was also the lecturer who organized debate classes on Friday afternoon, not because he had to from The Hague, but because he gave us something extra. It has been the basis for my political interest. Room for teachers, room for schools themselves. The VVD considers this essential. In the light of the report of the Dijsselbloem Commission, it is not for nothing that the government has to define what a student should learn, and that the school itself can decide how to learn. But I say that the importance of this free space for the school must never be placed above the interests of the student. The authors of this bill are threatening to do so. Although the initiative law has no effect on secondary education because it is already known that the mandatory diagnostic test will not be carried out for the time being, we are concerned about the signal that the proposers are sending out that this test would never have to be carried out because it would be contrary to the freedom of education. A diagnostic mid-term test based on national standards can give schools a useful insight into the questions where the student is and whether education has the desired result. This is also evident from the ongoing pilot, about which many schools are enthusiastic. However, according to the proposers, the possibility of requiring such a test in the future would be contrary to the freedom of education, because, as they say, the test is a learning tool and, in the light of Article 23 (6), schools may choose their own teaching resources. A possible apprenticeship system with national standards, as proposed by the Secretary of State in his adopted bill, is also, according to the applicants, fundamentally incorrect. It would not fit within the distinction between what and how. I can't agree with this motivation. According to the VVD, the mandatory intermediate measurement of learning outcomes is not about how. It is a question of whether what is being achieved is what. After all, the school can still choose its own method, but the intermediate measurement gives the student a timely knowledge of his or her situation. This is something the government can ask of schools for the benefit of the student. Fortunately, there are already many schools measuring results in the interim, but they do not always do so on the basis of national standards. This measurement also does not always lead to the adaptation of education. Research shows that only 22% of teachers actually use test results to adapt their education. The proposers do not want a mandatory intermediate test in the future and not a national standard apprenticeship follow-up system, so much is clear. But how do they intend to ensure that Dutch students are better scored in terms of language and mathematics? I have a number of specific questions. How do the applicants view the educational outcomes in secondary education in terms of language and arithmetic? When the reference levels were introduced, the base was incorporated into the law as a stick behind the door. In case of disappointing results, the test could still be required. Do the proposers recognise that the PISA figures on secondary education in mathematics, mathematics and language are still falling? What's their answer to this? Do the proposers agree with the VVD that objective intermediate measurement, for example through a apprenticeship monitoring system, could give schools more insight into whether the student is on track to pass the final exam, and that such a system can thus lead to better learning outcomes? Do the authors recognise that, in addition to the distinction between what and how, the Dijsselbloem Committee also stated that the government has a role to play in determining whether the desired results are achieved? Do they recognise that mid-term review is not about how but measurement of the results of the what? And what about secondary schools that are known as weak to very weak in the inspection? Would the proposers consider making an interim test or measurement mandatory there? Or does the ultimate freedom of the school even go above the learning outcomes? The VVD wants to put the individual pupil's interests at the centre of its work, but the proposers seem to think differently. I hope they don't mean that. In the note following the report, they say that mandatory intermediate measurement of learning outcomes is not necessary, as schools could improve education for subsequent generations of pupils on the basis of disappointing final examination results. But do the proposers recognise that this is actually mustard after the meal for the pupils concerned, who apparently did not receive the optimal education? The VVD wants to ensure that the principle principle of this initiative law ensures that it is only at the end of the school career that students have not reached the national level desired. After all, it's too late. Every student has the right to get the best preparation for the exam. I started my maiden speech by expressing the importance of the freedom of teachers and schools to practice their profession. In this respect, the Hague is a matter of restraint when it comes to imposing obligations. For the record, the VVD does not say here today that there should be a mandatory diagnostic test. The practice now shows that there are several useful forms of intermediate measurement in secondary education. But the VVD does say that the student's importance must always be paramount. For the student, it is crucial that schools measure in good time what results the education has on the student, and that they not only measure it but also do something with it. We need to address the so-called feedback culture in schools, as the Secretary of State rightly points out. I ask all colleagues today, with the VVD, to say that interim measurement of learning outcomes with national standardisation should indeed be an option for the future. After all, the freedom of education is not there so that schools can get a little messed up until the final exam. Luckily, a lot of schools don't either. But the freedom of education is there to optimally prepare students for a life in society within their own beliefs or philosophy. Yes, the government has to give schools room, but there is first and foremost the importance of the student that needs to be protected. As Haya van Someren, educational spokesperson for the VVD, once said in the 1960s: "Education will have to serve the freedom of man. A free man makes his own choices, over and over again, day in, day out. To be able to choose, he must know; to know, he must be educated." In the interests of that free person, the government must intervene in the question of whether education best prepares him or her for what is ultimately to be known and capable of. I hope that the proposers will put this interest of each pupil first and adapt their motivation so that it can become part of the legal history. We look forward to the answer. On this basis, the VVD will consider whether it can support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	I hope your history teacher, Mr Kaper, has been able to watch. Congratulations on your lovely maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	The next speaker is Mrs Westerveld, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by thanking and congratulating Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, but also, of course, their support, for this initiative law. It takes a lot of time and effort to submit and defend an initiative law. The aim of the proposal is to delete the legal basis for the diagnostic mid-term test. In other words, to prevent schools from becoming legally obliged to take this test. It is certainly no surprise to those present here that GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports this initiative law. GroenLinks is not in favour of the diagnostic mid-term test anyway. Although this initiative law is only brief, the debate on the diagnostic test raises a fundamental issue, namely what is good education and what is needed for it. It should be stated that no party here is opposed to good education. After all, we all want what's best for our students. But the vision of how to achieve that differs considerably. Over the past few years, I have had a lot of discussions here about education. I sometimes got the impression that a number of parties think that the government is best placed to determine what happens in classrooms and that we are helping education by focusing on measuring the level of pupils and making lists of how schools score and that good returns have become an end in themselves. Or should education be given room, above all, for those who are concerned? Space for teachers to prepare and give their lessons, in smaller classes so that each student gets sufficient attention and receives lessons at his or her level. I know that I am failing to answer the fundamental question of what good education is, but these two extremes do roughly indicate how different parties think about education. GroenLinks is convinced that good education benefits from trust in the teacher's professionalism. Good education is designed in schools by teachers, students and students. They know much more about this than politicians and administrators. The latter two must provide good conditions. In recent years I have noticed that this makes sense, but in practice it is not so obvious. In fact, after many years of working at educational associations, it was my reason to want to become politically active in the end. I will never forget my very first experience of Hague politics. That was about 15 years ago when major educational savings were announced on Princess Day. We sat with a group of students near the Binnenhof and decided to organise a large student demonstration on the spot. Less than two months later, more than 15,000 students gathered to protest against the then cabinet policy. This turned out to be the beginning of a long student period, in which I worked for good and accessible education by being active for many years in the participation and in the Nijmegen student union. After that, I was president of the National Student Union for two years. We dealt with a wide range of subjects such as fire-proof student homes, quality care, education funding and participation. At that time, we have been fiercely opposed to the idea of profitability. We felt that education should be shaped more by students and educational staff together. Over the past six years, I've been working at the General Education Association, the trade union for teaching staff. Here too, an important theme was that there should be more trust in the professional and that good education is achieved by investing in and giving more responsibility to the people in and the people in the classroom. Drivers and policy in The Hague must provide the framework conditions, sufficient financial resources, but also sufficient time and space, so that education becomes the teacher's again. The imminent shortage of teachers shows that it is very necessary to put these conditions in order. I would like to work for this in the years to come, together with the colleagues who are sitting here. In recent years, the Secretary of State has tried to bring more and more mandatory tests into education. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, he has thus missed his goal. Keys can help to measure the progress of the student, but it seems more and more like students have to jump from key to key. The Secretary of State states that the diagnostic interim test should be seen as a so-called objective intermediate that helps schools. My group has doubts about this. First of all, the test is very limited. It focuses primarily on Dutch, English and mathematics. It seems to us that secondary school education is much more than these subjects. Secondly, the need for these tests is not clear to my group. Can the Secretary of State indicate that teachers and schools themselves are unable to measure the intermediate position of their pupils? What studies have been carried out on this? That is not clear to us, so please respond. Thirdly, I agree with the analysis of the proposers: a public obligation is a restriction on the teaching and teaching freedom of schools. I also share the view of the proposers that it is undesirable to do so by means of a General Measure of Management, especially if there is no provision for a pending procedure. Our main argument is that we must avoid education becoming a test factory as much as possible. Earlier, the Secretary of State wanted to introduce the kindergarten test. Fortunately, the then Lower House could have prevented him from doing so. Now it seems again that the Chamber should restrict the enthusiasm, let me put it this way, from the Secretary of State. More importantly, much of the field of education did not welcome this test, quite the contrary. Several educational organisations warned against the deterioration of education. Moreover, the development costs of the diagnostic intermediate test are very high. Each year, for example, some 5 million are allocated to its development. I spoke to a teacher yesterday who was also coordinator of the pilot at his school. This school dropped out after the first tranche, because it took a lot of time for administration to participate in the pilot and especially because the test didn't provide new information and was very disappointing in terms of quality. My group therefore has serious doubts about this test. We prefer to invest in good teachers rather than in the necessary tests. My colleague, Rik Grashoff, has therefore tabled an amendment to delete this test when dealing with the education budget last year. With that money, this 5 million, we wanted to start an experiment with the better flow of primary school teachers to higher positions, so that the profession remains attractive and challenging, we retain the expertise in the classroom and teachers with a lot of knowledge and experience can work on developing teaching methods. That is still our aim. Especially given the shortage of teachers that is coming, it is our job to create good conditions. That's what we do by investing. Education benefits much more from an investment in teachers than from a mandatory test that costs a lot of money and many schools are not waiting for. A teacher can see the progress of students every day in the classroom. A teacher talks to colleagues about the achievements of students. The diagnostic test is a snapshot, as the Secretary of State himself said. The question is how many snapshots should be imposed by the government. As a government, we need to facilitate that teachers have time for continuous feedback and space for personal attention. We must make this a priority. We must ensure that every student can develop at his or her own pace and level. This key does the opposite. He does not do justice to the differences between education programmes and schools. In addition, this key is imposed top-down. In addition to the significance for pupils and teachers, there are other comments to be made on such a test. Schools are increasingly paid for the results of their students' studies. Another national test will only reinforce this. It is therefore worrying that the Secretary of State indicated in talks with the VO-Council that he preferred to use the test in weak schools. Would he like to go into that again? What's the reason for that? My final question is to the proposers. What is their position on the current voluntary diagnostic test? That is not clear to me from the explanatory memorandum to this initiative law. Do they want to retain this test and the money released in the budget, or do they prefer to invest these funds in teachers, like GroenLinks? It wouldn't be surprising that the latter is much more effective. I'll come to a conclusion. GroenLinks expresses its support for this bill and wishes the proposers good luck with the further defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. I'd like to be the first to congratulate you. Then we will suspend the debate for congratulations by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am happy to give the floor to the next speaker. That is Mr Kwint, on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to express my thanks to the authors of the parliamentary schedule. As a fresh Member of Parliament, in the middle of your in-work phase, it's ideal to have your maiden speech about such a fairly clear and fair, let's be honest, rather small law. In addition, of course, I would also like to thank the authors, not only for the scope of the law. The special thing is that this relatively small law affects precisely some very fundamental points that have a major impact in education: on the one hand, the professional freedom of schools to make choices about how they think best to teach the children at school what they need in the future and on the other hand, the tendency of large parts of politics to map, monitor, test, rank, list and compare. Everyone understands that professional freedom about how it relates to practical consequences for what. For example, I myself tend to point out just about everything in life by means of soccer metaphors. If I were a teacher, I'd have to take into account that this tendency of me, the way, eventually, the chances of success of my students, could affect something. Although I am still convinced that the use of football metaphors has a very positive effect, I should therefore bear in mind that this might have a negative effect on some students. I mean to say that the distinction between how, so the domain of the school, and what, the domain of politics, is extremely useful in education debates, but certainly not absolutely in the case of the SP. However, according to the SP, we should be very reluctant to tell teachers how to do their job. Why? Our modesty fits. We're not the experience experts. We are not the people who stand in front of the classroom every day and who know exactly what a young person needs in his or her development at that time. That's the teachers and we're allowed, no we have to assume that they know better than we do. That is exactly why the SP has been at the forefront of the past few years in suing the failed test culture in education. Why? Not because we are opposed to your students ultimately judging on their performances, but because the myth that a school is made by protocols, comparison tables, performance contracts, progress monitors and inspection reports is a bad thing. A school is made primarily by passionate teachers who have had good education, committed to good education with soul and salvation, not hindered by the continuous control and accountability of people without any practical experience, have the space to give students the attention they need to get the best out of themselves. That's a little more for one student sometimes than for the other. The school is also made by pupils challenged by good teachers, getting better, more learning and widely trained eventually graduating, not only because they are ready for the labour market but because they are ready for a life in the middle of society. That's what we as SP believe in. This once again requires modesty on the part of politics. According to the SP, a mandatory diagnostic interim test does not demonstrate this modesty; that proposal lacks that modesty. The proposal reflects a political vision that requires a spreadsheet every week with the progress made per pupil. That's not how education works. Now looking back at the teachers I had in high school, I dare to assume poison that those to whom I had the most would have scored quite low in the list of exactly what I had learned from them a week. Sometimes it takes a little longer before you can see what influence someone has had on your development. This cannot be reduced to, for example, a diagnostic intermediate test. That is why we are pleased that the original legislative proposal is gradually becoming increasingly anonymous. As far as we're concerned, that can stay that way for a while. I now come to the initiative of Mr Bishop and Mr Rog. In any event, pending what is going to happen to that poisonous bill, they want to prevent this test from being made compulsory without the explicit agreement of the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, it is clear that the SP does not want this interim test at all, whether it is decided by the Chamber or by a future government. You impose requirements in advance, you intervene in excesses, you check for quality and then you test at the end; that's how we see it in front of us. This way you make clear to teachers and schools what you desire from them and then give them the confidence and space to work on it and then at the end of the ride to check to what extent that succeeded. This is good for teachers, but it is also good for students, because with that confidence proven to the contrary, we take away a great source of frustration from teachers: that accountability mania. Since in my younger years I was a regular source of frustration for teachers, you should trust me when I say that a non-frustrated teacher does his job a lot better than a teacher who is frustrated. When this issue was raised some time ago, a motion was tabled with our support to stop this test immediately and to spend the money on promoting feedback in education. I have considered submitting that motion again, but I can imagine that the profits to be achieved are relatively limited, because we are in the last year of the pilot. In any case, therefore, the question to both the initiators and the cabinet as to what amount could possibly be saved if we decided to table the motion to delete the test immediately. However, as I said earlier, I do not expect that this will still make astronomical gains. Finally. We leave the choice whether or not the test comes to the Chamber. Why? Then we can say no to it with conviction if it ever came to that. The SP believes in the knowledge and skills of our teachers and teachers and we will bring the stories about their reality from the classroom to the plenary room over and over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	The following speaker was Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66. If you are now used to something else, you can now interrupt to your heart's content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. Mr Dijkgraaf is already standing by. This reminds me of my maiden speech four and a half years ago. It was about shopping Sundays and it's nice if you can give your maiden speech on the subject you've actually come for. I congratulate Mrs Becker, Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint on their wonderful speeches. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Van den Hul on their maiden speech, which will undoubtedly be fine. However, I have to chair another meeting at 12 noon, so I am afraid to say with certainty that I will be present at their maiden speeches. Hence my congratulations. My maiden speech was indeed about shopping Sundays. That was also an initiative legislative proposal, not the SGP, I think I remember. Then Mr Dijkgraaf was not allowed to interrupt me, but I was allowed to interrupt him. I'm still happy to remember that. There is little to interrupt in these debates and that is good, because I like it very much and I look forward to having a conversation with the speakers and the others in what may be called the pearl of the House of Representatives, namely the permanent Committee for Education. Am I saying something wrong? Oh, no. We all agree on this. Of course, a word of thanks goes to the authors of the initiative law we are discussing today, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, and their support, Mr Gijsbert Leertouwer. I know from my own experience that he will have done incredibly good work here again. I thank him for that. It's a wonderful piece of legislation. Today we are talking about the diagnostic interim test. D66 is not against tests, at least if those tests are in the service of pupils and of education. The question is whether requiring an intermediate test actually contributes to the development of pupils. In the eyes of D66 the teacher is the appropriate person to determine whether a test is desired and if so, at what time the test is held and what the content will be. That's the teacher, not a minister and not a secretary of state. Moreover, it can lead to undesirable effects, which we have also seen in other of these types of tests. Schools, for example, are charged for test scores. You can already see the lists. You can already see it happening: the national list of intermediate diagnostic tests. We don't want that, people, really. The consequences are that schools are going to select children on improper grounds and leave them unneeded. "Teaching to the test" will take place. None of that is in the best interests of children. I shall deal specifically with this proposal. The intermediate diagnostic key is located in a kind of twilight zone. Since Mr Elias left the Chamber, you can say that again; once in a while you can use something English again, I believe. The test is located in a twilight zone, a twilight zone of obligation, because the test is not yet mandatory, but the State Secretary may decide at any time to make him compulsory. That is dangerous, not only with this Secretary of State, but also with his successors. As I say to the proposers, we should not give these kinds of instruments in our hands. They have therefore done well to present this initiative legislative proposal, because it helps to clarify the deletion of the legal basis in order to make such a test mandatory. The proposal leaves it to schools and teachers to decide whether or not to opt for an intermediate diagnostic test. That is a proposal that D66 can wholeheartedly support. It gives space and trust to teachers. They need both, much more than just the result of this bill, very much. They deserve it too, and it also puts the child first. Hence our warm support and thanks. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr Van Meenen felt that schools and teachers should have the room to decide for themselves what test they want to work with and how they want to do it. So what is Mr Van Meenen's response to schools that do not do so and allow those students to take tests that are not nationalized? Does Mr Van Meenen not see the risk that the student will ultimately suffer from this? Can he reflect on the fact that at the moment only 22% of teachers use the test results to improve education? What does he propose so that all this can be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	I told you, teachers have to decide when to test. In Dutch education, quite a lot is tested. There are education systems abroad in which this happens much less. In the Netherlands there is already an excess of tests. What I don't want is for teachers to be obliged to use a national standardized test. I've been a teacher all my life. Fortunately, I was still a teacher who got the confidence to make tests with his colleagues himself. They were adapted to the education we were teaching. That trust is completely gone. This is evident from the words used by Mrs Becker, not only in this interruption, but also in her maiden speech. It was a beautiful maiden speech, but of course I totally disagreed. This is a VVD as I don't know her, although, unfortunately, I have known her in recent years: not that liberal, not that giving confidence to professionals. She did so in words, but not in deeds. We really need to get back to that, as I say to Mrs Becker. We have to trust that the teacher is doing the best he can. Of course, teachers should be expected to learn from them if there is to be a test, and to ensure that the results are taken into account in education. That's where we find each other. It means, for example, that a particular pupil must strengthen himself or that education is not good enough in certain respects. That kind of thing, that self-learning effect, should happen much more in schools. But that's really something quite different than prescribing a national test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	I heard Mr Van Meenen say that this should be done in schools. And he doesn't think it's liberal for the government to interfere in letting schools actually do that. I do not think it is liberal to give schools that space, ultimately at the expense of the student. I therefore ask Mr Van Meenen once again how D66 will ensure that the results for language, mathematics and mathematics, which, unfortunately, are still lagging behind despite the introduction of the reference levels, will improve, precisely in the interests of the pupil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u15	When it comes to D66, we do so by improving education by investing more in it. We have had this discussion in recent years. It is precisely within the VVD that the idea is that you make everything better by putting extra tests in education. But that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Becker does not seem entirely happy with the contribution of D66. That creates hope for the future. Of course I thank the initiators and express my appreciation for their work: well done. But... it doesn't look like anything. What always surprises me is that the memory of the Chamber is short. Too short, for my taste. In Rutte I we were confronted with educational innovations such as new learning and competence-driven education. These were all orchestrated attacks on education, which once, in the past, focused on knowledge, on skills, on competences, but above all on upliftment. That was education as it had taken shape for centuries. The "professors of new learning" I call them "but for a moment" had to have nothing of that knowledge component, because knowledge became obsolete and very fast, and besides, we had Google, on which everything was still to be found. Those bread prophets had the wind in the sails for a long time. The education devalued very quickly, and so quickly and so heavily, that it degenerate into diploma fraud, including at the Hogeschool Inholland. You probably remember all that, I hope, despite that short memory. The mastery of basic skills, such as Dutch language, mathematics and English, was followed up by further training, but also by employers, the alarm clock, because they received students and young workers who could no longer count, spell, read and write. I just wanted to tell Mrs Becker and Mr Van Meenen that we are from there. That was a broad social debate at the time. In Rutte II there is a catch-up. Good steps have been taken. In Rutte III, so soon, the wind seems to be spinning again. The new delusion of the day is led by D66 and all left-wing parties. That delusion was that keys and exams really aren't of this time anymore. The Cito test had to believe it, and the teacher got the last word. Poor teacher... That poor teacher was then put under pressure by all those well-beaked parents to highly advise, unfortunately often too high, or to at least give a double advice if there was no other way. The result is that the objectivity of the matching has disappeared, that the sitting is increasing and so is the draining. We were faced with that again this week. Then the attack on the calculation key was opened. A true crusade was organized against this: that calculation test would be too linguistic and contain too few figures. Well, everyone knows the arguments. The opponents have never proposed simply to sit around the table to resolve the disputes and to create support for all parties. No, he had to disappear. Even the kindergarten test, which was just referred to, had to go, because it would be an exam for toddlers who would be traumatized by it. I heard Mr Van Meenen of D66 say that once. In this anticulture on tests and exams, the initiators come up with this initiative law to even demolish the diagnostic test from education. It is the CDA and the SGP who are taking this initiative. Both parties should know better as far as I'm concerned. Why are they doing this? I distinguish two reasons. The first reason I'm a little surprised. The SGP and the CDA see the run-up to the diagnostic test as a danger to the school's didactic freedom. That's an exaggeration. The diagnostic test is not an exam or test in the true sense of the word. It's not a learning tool either. It is nothing more or less than a didactic tool to strengthen the teaching process. Where are the faults? Where are you doing okay? What does extra focus need? It really goes too far for me to see a weakening of the school's didactic freedom. It will not be necessary in many schools, of course, but in many schools it will be. As long as it is ensured that the diagnostic test does not lead to an enormous additional administrative burden, which is often imposed by us, not by The Hague, but by all kinds of nervous managers and directors, this test is a useful and necessary instrument in our view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u17	What a pity that Mr Beertema now limits the room for the professional again. I'm just gonna go back to his words. He said that this test helps to shape the teaching process better. That's exactly where it goes wrong, isn't it? That's the way. I have seen Mr Beertema in the past in discussions about the Dijsselbloem Committee, in which he said: from The Hague we decide what, but not how. So can Mr Beertema not say another text?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u18	I sympathise with Mr Dijkgraaf. In an ideal situation with excellent teachers and very well-educated schools it would not be necessary. I was just sketching an image. Mr Dijkgraaf has listened very carefully to it, because he is also in a different line of work, at Erasmus University. That's where he meets all those students who can't do anything anymore. Well, they can't do anything anymore, they can't count anymore, they can't read anymore and they can't analyze anymore. That is a sad legacy of the education of the last 20 years, of all the educational renewals that we have had. There's been a lot of demolition. A lot of bad work has been done. That needs to be fixed. In Rutte I we started with that. In Rutte II we tried to go through with that, but unfortunately it starts to turn again. Mr Dijkgraaf must agree with me. Of course these are not beautiful instruments. I'd rather not have them. Soon I'm going to say something about the feedback culture that should be there. Any school with a good feedback culture can of course miss such a diagnostic test as toothache. It won't be necessary at all. However, that feedback culture hardly exists anymore. Much has happened in education, and that has not been for the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u19	I am really disappointed by Mr Beertema's commitment to a second-best solution and not to the first-best solution. We're at the beginning of a new cabinet period. Then we'll go for the solution, won't we? Then we are going to say to the schools that do not do enough: boys, get to work! That's what we do at Erasmus University. With us, the answer is not that there should be staff meetings or protocols, and certainly not that there should be commitments from The Hague. With us the answer is: room for the professional. That works!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr Dijkgraaf is, of course, right. Erasmus University is certainly not the worst example. There are very nice things happening in that area. We're talking about something else here. We are talking about primary and secondary education. That's where the damage is done. I'll get back to that. When Mr Dijkgraaf listens, he is served at his beck and call. I come to the second objection that I distinguish among the initiators. In June last year we debated the diagnostic test. During that debate it appeared that most groups do not want it to happen. The CDA, D66, the Christian Union, the SGP and the SP already wanted to stop the pilot and use the resources released to strengthen the formational feedback culture. Of course, we agree with the statement that the diagnostic test should be superfluous and that the formational feedback culture should be self-evident. I just said that. Unfortunately, that is not the case. All I have to do is point out the increasing number of sitters and streamers. There's still a lot of bad news. In most schools, there is no such thing as a formative feedback culture. That time seems to be over and I would very much like to have it back, but it does not seem that this is going to happen in the foreseeable future. This educational culture, I give to the initiators, continues to devalue. What do they think of this? I refer to statements by teachers who advocate a bicultural language approach. That's not a feedback culture, but that's defeatist, that's bowing to your own inability to elevate students. That's cultural relativism. That's sanctioning. That's deeply betrayed the uplifting ideal. In order to wake you all up for a moment, I'd like to present you some quotes that I've been given. We're talking about a teacher trainer, which will train future generations of teachers. I quote: "Spoken about that educational culture. I also think that language should be more bicultural. I think it is very important that we do not sit exactly on grammar but on the meaning of language. At the po-schools in Rotterdam-Zuid where I come from, there is no teacher who speaks grammatically perfectly Dutch. How important is the d and t or the correct use of an article the or it really is? In a bicultural society there just needs to be some water with the wine." And even crazier: "That's why it's important to problemize perfect language. Too much attention to language is used to exclude people." Mr. Chairman. That is the unique Dutch educational culture that we don't see anywhere in the world. Imagine France or the United Kingdom going so far as to give up their own language. That is really too shocking for words. I would ask all the spokesmen here to table a joint motion to stop this madness at the next moment we are here together, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u21	First of all, I am grateful to Mr Beertema for having included us as newcomers at the beginning of his contribution in the history; you can only learn some of that and then learn something in an educational debate. On a second point, I do not agree with Mr Beertema, because in this debate he is bringing in all sorts of things with regard to what is currently going on. I would like to focus this debate on what is now being proposed as legislation. He certainly finds our support in his final plea. The CDA Group, including Mr Rog and the undersigned, has previously also asked questions to the Minister about these statements on Dutch. However, I would like to bring it back to the discussion that is taking place here. In my opinion, Mr Beertema's contribution does not make it sufficiently clear why the mandatory nature would be the right thing to do. He started with criticism when it comes to, for example, competence-oriented education. That is also something that was poured out from above on all those unsuspecting teachers and now I find Mr Beertema here behind the microphone for so many years and I hear him argue that we should pour out the following on them. Look, I don't have to be consistent because this is my first debate, but after a number of years I expect Mr Beertema to be consistent. Maybe he can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u22	That consistency is there. Over the last few years, I have expressed myself often enough about this decayed educational culture that exists. In order to help the newcomers here, I have indeed outlined here the history of this loss of the knowledge component and of the uplifting ideal in education. You may resent me for dragging up to date everything: well, this is politics, welcome! It makes sense, too. The examples I mention clearly indicate that I am quite desperate about the future of Dutch education if the teachers of the teachers who are going to train future generations of students are in this way in their love for the language. They make such basic mistakes, that I think I can interfere and that I can tire you of it. That's part of the job. That is why I say that the diagnostic test is an instrument for this. It is not the most beautiful instrument there is, but at the department and at the inspection it is also seen what is happening and it is also known that this kind of annoying intervention is sometimes needed to keep people informed. That's the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u23	I note that fatigue has certainly succeeded, because in this answer I have not yet received an answer to my question. I have asked you very strongly to state again why the obligation of the diagnostic test is right. I have noted that you have previously criticised everything standardized in education. In your reply, you once again address all your other grievances, of which you are aware, but the question was: why are you in favour of the obligation in this case? Isn't that contrary to what you told me before?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u24	I am in favour of this because a lot of schools do not want to go along with it, because a lot of schools oppose it and because the government has the task of monitoring the quality of education for everyone. That's why. That is why there is a need for an obligation from time to time. That is not nice, but so be it; it is no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u25	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Beertema for his helpful attitude towards newcomers. That's an unusual sound for the PVV. You say that education culture in schools is under pressure. Some of us may still be able to go along with that, but what about the solution? You say that we should not invest in feedback culture and educational culture, but we are going to impose a mandatory test. Don't tell me you're changing the teaching culture in schools by taking an extra test. This doesn't change the educational culture that you're so anxious to change, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u26	I'm gonna go over the side first. You learned that well from your colleague, Van Dijk, I think. He also always started with such a small introduction, with an insult here and there, after which he quickly turned to the question. But I'd still like to get into it. What exactly did you say? It happened so fast, I almost missed it. Could you explain it to me for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yes, with love and pleasure. You just said that you wanted to help the newcomers by taking them into the preliminary process. I only commended you for your assistive attitude towards newcomers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u28	Would you like to put your question again? It was about culture and what the test adds; that's my summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u29	You are right to be concerned about the educational culture and say you want to solve the problem by introducing an extra test, rather than investing in feedback culture in schools. Isn't that what you're trying to do to solve the problem you're experiencing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u30	No, of course not. I'm not gonna solve it with that, but I'm gonna apply an emergency hold. I put a Band-Aid where it is needed, because there is no such feedback culture; I have just explained this in detail. That's what I'm so worried about. That culture has to come back. The autonomous teacher who really is a didactician and pedagogue and who, as it were, already has that by himself, hardly exists anymore. It is precisely in order to keep people informed that the diagnostic test is required; not always, but sometimes it is. That's the story. It's not that hard. The culture you speak of, which you want back, you're not going to turn back with a few million here and there. That's political will. I'm used to that from the SP, but that's never worked; there's one back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u31	This way, we'll continue to exchange niceties for a while. I don't think anyone's saying that with a few million here or there, you're fundamentally changing or improving the educational culture. This requires a long-term and very intensive commitment. I only note that the PVV is presenting a solution that will in no way contribute to this, rather than choosing, as previously proposed, to invest the resources available for the test in the feedback culture, so that we slowly reduce it in the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u32	This is what I want to give to Mr Kwint, such a reality in The Hague: you are going to invest money to get a culture back. Come on, Mr. Kwint, you've been walking with us long enough to know that that's really bullshit. That is what I mean by saying about a few tens of millions for some project with expensive project managers traveling around the country to give a workshop here and there. And to think that suddenly there is a new educational culture, no way! That's not how the world works. Maybe you can sell that to your constituents. That's a process of years. It took years to break down that educational culture, and it also takes years to rebuild it. And in the meantime, that department will indeed have to stick those patches in an sometimes unsympathetic way, whether they like it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u33	Then the next interruption is for Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u34	We share the great concerns about the quality of education that Mr Beertema has put forward and would also be very sympathetic to the motion he is pointing to. This is a motion in which we as a Chamber make a statement on the undermining vision of the Dutch language of different educational institutions and other people in education, which emerged last week in news reports. We wonder whether Mr Beertema can explain this further and perhaps even make a move for such a motion, which we would very much support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u35	I cannot, of course, table a motion in the first term, because we must first wait for the reaction of the initiators and the cabinet. I will be happy to table that motion in second place. I would like to share the considerations and the operative part, because it would of course be the best signal if they were signed by all the parties. Our beautiful language obviously needs protection from this kind of language vandals. They're not just language vandals, they're teachers. And that's the disturbing thing, that's what worries me so much. So thank you to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u36	For the sake of clarity, I would like to share this last point fully with Mr Beertema. If there's something we shouldn't do, it's stop making demands on students. That's the best way not to elevate them. So we're 100% in agreement on that. It is just such a pity that Mr Beertema brings that into a debate that is not about that. This debate is about how we give all children in the Netherlands the best education and whether it helps that the government throws all kinds of tests in that field. Mr Bertema does a bit easy on that, but, like me, he has been a teacher for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u37	How long?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u38	He's been a teacher for 34 years, and I've only been 33 years. Anyway, you can see it's been shorter for me. I know what else it's about. Anyway, that aside. I really do not understand why Mr Beertema, as a former teacher, is advocating that the government intervenes. Surely that can never solve anything for situations where teachers may fail to do the right thing? In fact, wouldn't it be true that the policy of the past decade, to which the PVV has contributed in part, has led teachers to lean back more and more, because that government was taking an increasingly important role? And now there's another threat with that diagnostic test. We've seen it with the math test.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u40	That's my question. Is the fact that the government is increasingly invading the schools and actually taking responsibility for teachers away more and more, not precisely the cause?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u41	No, that's not the cause. As far as we are concerned, that diagnostic test is not an exam or test in the true sense of the word. I've just argued that. It's a didactic tool. In my time in the MBO in Rotterdam-Zuid I fought against that competence education, so I couldn't give the knowledge I wanted to give to all those Turkish girls, Moroccan boys and I don't know how much they needed it. I couldn't do that anymore. I wish there were diagnostic tests at the time, which meant that not me but my management had been called to order. I would have liked management to have heard: this cannot be done, those students know too little in their education at this point, something must be done. Again, it is a didactic tool to sharpen things up, to determine for yourself where the faults are. Then let what's okay go a little bit and put the focus on those themes where the flaws are. That's a didactic test. It's not an exam. It is a tool to strengthen the learning pathway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr Beertema wanted to conduct diagnostic tests as a teacher at the time, but apparently the board was not allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u43	No, I did it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u44	Perhaps there are also schools at the moment where it is prevented for some reason. I can honestly imagine very little, but it seems that Mr Beertema has allowed it to happen. As a teacher, he wanted his students to take a test, but the board didn't want him to do it. Then he said, "I won't do it; you know what, I'm going into politics and I'm going to take care of it from there." That's not what we need to let happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u45	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u46	That is why I do not understand Mr Beertema. If, for example, my party is working to strengthen the position of teachers vis-à-vis their boards in this area, for example through participation, Mr Beertema does not give at home. Instead, he says, "We need to get even more in the government." He actually says: let's not give that teacher a position at all; from now on he gets from the government instead of hearing from the board when he gets to take a test, what test that is and what it looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u47	I ask you to conclude, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u48	That couldn't have been the teacher's intention, could it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u49	There's so much getting dragged in now. Now we're going to talk about participation. I didn't recognize a question in this. Perhaps you could give an analysis, Mr President. Maybe you could give me a hand on my way. What was the question, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u50	That's tricky. Was it the teacher Beertema's intention? I heard that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yeah, that's the question. That teacher...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u52	No, Mr Van Meenen. Mr Beertema talks about his own answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u53	There's been a lot of damage in education. There has been so much damage that at the time you know all about it, Mr Van Meenen, who had an enormous social debate. The boys and girls couldn't do anything. You can wave that away, Mr Van Meenen, but it was. Where does despair come from with the teachers I'm talking about? They are no longer able to add a bit of grammar, when they can do it in all the countries around us. Apparently, the D's and the T's can't be transferred anymore. Apparently it's been a cry from these people to say: we'll just let it all go a little bit; we'll pour a bicultural sauce on it and then we'll be fine. Of course it's not gonna be okay! Of course, there is a distinction in society between people who use Dutch correctly and people who use street language. It's so hypocritical to pretend it's all worth the same amount. These teachers are the D66 voters. These people live in white enclaves, with baking bikes. Every night they read to their children responsible books. Do you know why they do that, Mr Van Meenen? They are deeply convinced that they are absolutely right in saying that correct language is insanely important for the rest of your life, for your career, to be able to analyze, to take your place as a participatory citizen in society. Those parents do. But then they are teachers and then they go to Inholland or the Rotterdam University of Applied Sciences and they say: it is very bad for those children that they say "the girl" and "where are you going"; let us raise such language to new standards. Come on, Mr. Van Meenen. It seems that there is a mentality in education. That's the hypocrisy. In this way, the idea of upliftment goes away. I am glad that there is a department and that there are inspectors who recognize this and say: okay, then we have to take a diagnostic test once in a while, even though it is not so much fun to keep the teachers and the schools in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u54	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u55	I would like to go on, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mrs. Becker has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u58	I would like to make an attempt as a VVD to have the reasonable middle between D66 and the PVV speak...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u59	Then you shouldn't be with me, Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u60	...in this heated discussion. Mr Beertema has doubts about the deletion of the basis of the diagnostic test. In fact, he's against it. Does that also mean that he thinks that such a mandatory diagnostic test should be introduced immediately? I hear him say at the same time that this is not the ideal means. Is Mr Beertema prepared to take part in the VVD's reflection on which medicine can work? It's our duty to have a binding character. We may also have national standards, but it could also be a apprenticeship follow-up system. The pilot isn't finished either. Will Mr Beertema reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u61	It can be done very quickly. If this is what Mrs Becker means by 'the middle', I am, of course, in favour of it. I wanted to report that, too. Let us finish the pilot, come up with a thorough evaluation and then sit around the table about what we are going to do with it. Then we can see what the effects have been and what we can do with them. Of course we should. But it goes too far for me to say bluntly now, before the pilot is completed: this has to be demolished. I think that is a waste of time, including political efforts. You don't rig up a whole pilot to tear it down before it's finished because of the political delusion of the day. I would also like to make a comment on the attempt to combat our language. Correct and cared for Dutch is not an exclusion mechanism at all, as the teachers claim. Language skills are appreciated in every culture. It's an important condition for better career opportunities. I have already asked the initiators whether they want to respond to this, also to that bad form of cultural relativism. As far as I am concerned, we must put a stop to this, because this evil form of cultural relativism is putting the pupils of the lower class at a disadvantage. The children of the upper middle class are culturally formed, in a very responsible manner, but this type of intervention only deepens the segregation between the higher educated and the lower educated. We really shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. My congratulations to all those who made a maiden speech, Mr Becker, Mr Westerveld and Mr Kwint, and also to those who are going to do so, Mr Van der Molen and Mr Van den Hul. It is nice to hear their stories, from the heart and at the same time with a vision. That promises something for the future. My congratulations also to the authors, Mr Bishop and Mr Rog, and certainly to the collaborator, who of course did the real work, Mr Leertouwer. It's always a nice job to do, but it's also real work. My conclusion is that it is a good proposal. We have already had a lot of discussion during this debate on whether there should be a mid-term test. Mr Beertema had a detailed exchange of views. I note that all the arguments for introducing or not introducing an interim test have been put forward in the various contributions. As far as I'm concerned, it's about how. Mr Beertema has made this very clear. It is a didactic tool, but then you should not do it, says the Dijsselbloem Committee, because if The Hague you should not talk about how. The Hague must be about what. On the contrary, less interference from The Hague is needed. So let us increase the professional space. I remember that in 2009 I was appointed professor at Erasmus University. I asked if anything else had been said about what class to give and how to give it. The answer was no. Because I was appointed professor, people had faith in my professionalism, so I was allowed to teach a course that I thought would be good for the university and for the students. I was allowed to do that in my own way, the number of hours I could also decide for myself, as well as the way I would teach and the literature. But I'm being reckoned hard on the quality of my lectures. That's room for professionalism. One can do this, the other can do that, but eventually you increase the quality, not with this kind of silly, intermediate tests that are also the same for all schools. You don't solve anything with that. Then you do get "teaching to the test." That is not effective and it brings with it high costs. The interesting thing is that this proposal is not about that at all. It is not a proposal in the vein of: should there now be a mid-term test, yes or no? We have spent a great deal of time on this, but it happens often in debates of this kind that we spend a great deal of time on what is not actually on the table. What is on the table is the legal provision on the right of the cabinet to introduce a mandatory interim test in this Chamber without a veil. That doesn't matter if you're in favour of that test or if you're against that test. I do not think anyone here is enthusiastic about this test, not even those who have asked critical questions about this bill. I heard Mr Beertema say that this is not really a solution to the problem and it is a matter of sticking plasters. You're not gonna stick plasters and submit solutions that aren't really solutions without a wallpaper, are you? Without the actual agreement of the Chamber? Without a debate on the question: is this really a solution, or should we do very different things? Whether you're for or against that mid-term test, I think you should be in favour of this initiative legislative proposal. At all times: if there ever is an interim test, it will simply have to be done by means of a regular legislative proposal, with an opinion from the Council of State and with input from the whole of the Netherlands. Mind you, they're now negative. The Education Council is negative and the Council of State is negative. I would say: I think this bill is going to make it to the Chamber, even with the support of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's what we're gonna hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u64	When the basis was incorporated into the law, I think Mr Dijkgraaf may have already been in the Chamber, but I myself have not yet done so explicitly to ensure that it was a stick behind the door. It was a question of first looking at how the reference levels would work out language and arithmetic and thus monitor the results of schools. It was also about giving schools the freedom to do so. Would Mr Dijkgraaf want to reflect on whether that stick is still needed now? Does he agree with me that the results have not improved? That may not be the argument of the SGP either. At the time, when that basis was introduced, the SGP already felt that it should be deleted, and it tabled an amendment to that effect, which it did not achieve. I understand that the SGP is now trying to do this again from a sort of principled point of view, but what does the student have to do with that principled consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u65	Teaching to the test is of no use to the student. The student is of no use if the field of education is again much more concerned with "we have to pass the test, so we have even less time to teach the real knowledge." That is the substantive argument, but I consider the constitutional argument to be even more important in this legislative proposal. For the stick behind the door you don't need a legal provision, because we can always create a stick. That is precisely the strength of our Parliament. If you do that kind of profound thing, which everyone says "you have to be careful in the context of freedom of education," then you must always want to be very intensively involved as a Chamber? This instead of a secretary of state or minister saying, "I'm gonna save an AMvB and put it on the line for a while."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u66	I might be able to go along with that stick getting away from the door if it weren't necessary anymore. I therefore ask Mr Dijkgraaf to reflect on the results in secondary education at the moment. What's his proposal to improve it without that stick behind the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u67	My argument is that the adoption of this bill leaves the stick behind the door. The field of education knows better than anyone that there will be all kinds of legislation. At any time we can say that this is not going well, so we are going to do something else. Anyone who goes to work in the field of education, you will undoubtedly do the same. You know that the field of education is right: dear God, what laws do we all get? In the field of education they know very well: if we don't do it right, we get the stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u68	Okay. But that is the profit of this debate. If I understand correctly, this means that the SGP does not exclude for the future to support a mandatory form of interim measurement of learning outcomes and that the SGP itself would consider supporting, for example, a apprenticeship follow-up system. Can we make it clear to each other today that you are not ruling this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u69	We have a time behind us in which everything and everything and everyone were excluded from all kinds of processes. I believe that the SGP is almost the only party not participating in such games. We always want to have the discussion when there is a proposal. On substantive grounds, I do not see much in this kind of specific proposal. But if I lift it to a slightly higher level, and I am asked whether we should all work together in the coming years to achieve a stronger and better quality of education, then the answer is yes. Then we will discuss which instruments are appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u70	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had come to the end of my speech by saying that I believe that this bill should be adopted unanimously, because otherwise I do not understand exactly what is going on here. I would like to put one more question to the initiators. I think this is a very good example of removing unnecessary rules in the law. Are we gonna go through this more often? Is it the ambition of the initiators to come up with this kind of initiative laws more often, so that at some point they become known as the scrapers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u72	The next speaker is Mr Van der Molen. He is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. He also makes his maiden speech, so even now he can speak freely, without being interrupted. I wish him luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr. Chairman. It must have been about 1986. Here behind on the Binnenhof a little Frisian boy of about 6 years old walked with his parents to the House of Representatives. His parents had already explained on the train how important the House of Representatives was. Because that's where laws were made. Of course, that little boy of six didn't know what laws were, but he recognized that big building with two towers. Once inside, in the Old Hall, and after running around, he was allowed to sit next to his mother in a very tight bench of brown and green. There he heard stories about baskets of secret messages that were sent down by a rope. Until he saw something in front of him that wasn't right. There was a calendar right in front of that boy. Every day a note was torn off, but that was forgotten. Maybe it was forgotten because it was Saturday, but it really said "Friday." That wise-nosed little Frisian boy raised his hand and pointed out to the lady who explained, the misdemeanor. And then he was allowed to rip off the note himself and he was allowed to take it home. For years, that little boy kept that note in his room. He even took it to school to prove that he had actually been in the Lower House. Now that little Frisian boy is quite a bit bigger and he is here for the first time in the House of Representatives, for his maiden speech. I've just been checking to see if the calendar checks out. He's right. Between then and now is about 30 years. But I had an early interest in politics. The year 1986 was also the year that Ruud Lubbers made a huge election victory for the CDA. For Ruud Lubbers I campaigned in the seventh grade of the Christian Elementary School de Source in Damwoude. We had student elections, and Ruud Lubbers was my husband. I didn't have a really good reason for that, but like a lot of voters, I knew he wanted to finish his job. And I thought he deserved it. It took me until 2001 to get really politically active. At the hairdresser I met an old mbo teacher who remembered that I was always interfering with everything. And so she thought politics could be something for me. After Ruud Lubbers, Jan Peter Balkenende became my husband, and I joined the CDA. The rest is history. Besides my work, I became a city councilman in the city where I studied and where I live, Leeuwarden. For the last three and a half years, I was allowed to be alderman there. Last Friday I said goodbye, and after fifteen years of local politics I did so with a bit of melancholy. It makes perfect sense to me that in this Chamber there are people from all over our country. I therefore welcome the fact that I am allowed to be part of a group in which almost all the provinces are represented. That is what characterizes my party, and I think that is a good thing. I want to be a Member of Parliament for the whole of the Netherlands, but also explicitly with the task of playing my province here in the spotlight. In the campaign, I went all over the county to talk to a lot of people. A large number of them voted for me as well. I'm grateful to them for that. Their stories, of course, I lay down here in your midst at some point. Although I must confess that I am a bit uncomfortable here, it is an honor for me to be a representative of the people in this house. I look forward to the debates we are going to have here. I am also looking forward to doing so on behalf of the CDA on the issues that concern me: secondary vocational education, to which I myself participated for a number of years, higher education and scientific education. I'm a stacker myself: from Mavo to the MBO and beyond. By the time I was able to get a university degree, I'd be in over my head in politics. So it never really came from a diploma. As far as I am concerned, it is at the heart of education that training is being built up. Education offers the opportunity to move forward and to discover your talents. Education is not a cog in the big economic engine of the so-called e.g. the Netherlands, but it is an end in itself, to make people grow and to transfer what is important to new generations. It is not a collection of political interests or a standard solution for all social problems. For me, as a Christian Democrat, freedom of education and education are at the heart of the issue, and thus the freedom to establish a school, to direct and organise it. This freedom is once based on the realization that there is not a single view of what good education is but that we can differ on this and that this freedom of expression should not be finally settled here in this house but that it should be different, as our Dutch society is not a single sausage. It is good, at least in my view and in that of Christian democracy, that the government is not the ultimate boss in our country, but that communities are at first themselves. This has not only been an ideal of graduates in our history, but also a view of very ordinary people. I got it from home, not in Latin, but in Frisian. In life, and therefore in politics, it is about service to people. Personally, I read that back in stories from the Bible. That book is full of stories of seemingly misfits that do great things: unbelieving thomas, fantasies that kick the Pharaoh's viceroy or a son of a simple carpenter who turns out to be a born leader. To speak to Abraham Kuyper: little luyden. It concerns ordinary people, who are not waiting for complicated discussions, but for actions. In practice, I see that education can make a difference for them. That makes education something to be economical. I hope to be able to contribute to this in my own way in the coming years. As I indicated, the CDA stands for the freedom of establishment of education. That brings me to the initiative proposal that is now before me. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for getting the job done. I would also like to thank the authors for answering the supplementary written questions we had put. The legislative proposal before us has rightly been preceded by a thorough discussion. The CDA group, like other groups, has long denounced the passed test culture in Dutch education. What makes education stronger is an open culture, in which the quality of education is critically examined, in which each student has specific attention and in which teachers as a team appeal to each other where it can do better and then take action. It was for that reason that the CDA group was critical of the trial with a diagnostic test in secondary education. That this criticism was widely shared was also demonstrated by the motion adopted by coalition parties PvdA and VVD, by members Straus and Ypma, which rejected a mandatory introduction. A diagnostic test that should apply in the same way to every student at the end of the substructure has little added value anyway. It takes too little account of specific circumstances, such as many tests, and hardly provides feedback to which you as a teacher or student in the superstructure have anything else. In the opinion of the CDA Group, education itself is perfectly capable of determining whether and in what way to visualize the intermediate development of pupils. In fact, in many places that is already the practice. It therefore takes too far to enter a diagnostic test centrally controlled, without the intervention of the Chamber. That is why the standardisation of education continues, for which we would like to put a stop to. It is therefore no less consistent to follow the authors of this bill and to remove the legal possibility of introducing a diagnostic test. In doing so, we do justice to the freedom of organisation of education and express our confidence in the professionalism of the people who stand in front of the classroom and accompany those students. It is for this reason that the CDA Group wholeheartedly supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u74	I'd like to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u75	I would like to welcome the pupils of the European School, part of the Rhineland Lyceum. I give the floor to Mrs van den Hul on behalf of the Labour Party. She also makes her maiden speech, so again no interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u76	Mr. Chairman. My grandmother, who must be proud to watch from above, was born almost a century ago. Women weren't allowed to vote at the time. If someone had told her then that her granddaughter would only be MPs two generations later and in her maiden speech would lance for easy access to good education for everyone, then I wonder if she had believed that. She didn't even get a chance to finish her school. Because that wasn't necessary for a girl. No, a farmer's daughter was supposed to spend her time better. Those days are now fortunately over in the Netherlands, but unfortunately there are still boys and girls who find thresholds on their way to their dreams. In fact, if little Kirsten had listened to a number of people she met during her school days, I might not have been here today. Those were men, mostly men, among them a dean of all places, who thought I had to put me in a booth based on my appearance, sex or choice of clothing. But, honey, girls like you don't have to study anyway, they're gonna be stewardess and they're gonna marry a rich businessman. I'd drop math and physics if I were you, you'd only get wrinkles. Gymnasium? That's not gonna do you any good later, is it? This is true. Apart from that, I can say that this kind of stigmatisation has been one of the reasons why I became politically conscious and later active and ended up with the PvdA. This is the very theme that concerns me. I am therefore pleased and proud to be able to deal with the educational portfolio in the near future, among other things, to ensure that no one encounters barriers on the way to her or his dreams. Whether you're a farmer's daughter or a blonde bobby with a language bobby, whether your name is Shamilla or Mitchell or Jashin or Jantien, nobody deserves to be underestimated. In education, students must be judged on what they can do instead of who they are. This means that quality must always be at the centre and not the numbers. This is why the PvdA is fighting against a culture in which students, teachers and schools are judged on test results of only a limited number of subjects. Not the figures, but the progress and development of pupils must be at the heart of education and therefore also of testing. That is exactly why I have some critical questions about this bill. The diagnostic mid-term test in secondary education was once intended to do exactly that: at the end of the curriculum, to measure the level of pupils in order to deliver tailor-made work and to look under the hood, as the Secretary of State once pictured it. But this test should not set a threshold for equal opportunities, because what exactly are we testing? Is everything that's important even testable? Are we looking at all the skills, such as creativity, empathy and social skills? In addition, a key is only a snapshot and can also be practiced. So does such a test then do justice to the observations of teachers who see the students daily? And, apart from that, how valid is such a test anyway? As a guest lecturer in higher vocational education, I encounter many stackers. Many of them have a migration background. Beautiful, of course, that after a sometimes long detour these greats have found their way to higher education; worth a deep bow. For it takes courage to persevere and show that you can, while you were not considered able to do so at an earlier stage by your master or teacher. Apart from being very proud of them, however, we must also seriously ask ourselves how the talents of these students sometimes come to their senses so late in the day. For example, under-advisation in the transition from primary to secondary education, as unfortunately is still common. Or at a later stage in the school career, because also in secondary education, decisions are taken at different times about outflow, flow or influx. Review often plays an important role in this. The PvdA believes in equal opportunities. Education is the place where children, regardless of who they are, are given the opportunity to develop themselves and discover their talents. The way children develop or the pace at which they learn varies from child to child. One learns fast, the other learns slowly. One blooms early, the other blooms late. Can a diagnostic test help teachers find out what students have learned and what they still have trouble with? Yeah, you can. Can discussing the results of such a test contribute to tailor-made teaching? Yes, but at the same time we must not lose sight of what it was all about, namely ensuring equal opportunities for all children. I would therefore like to ask Mr Rog and Mr Bishop to include us in what their proposal actually means for students. Does removing the legal basis for a mandatory intermediate diagnostic test mean that hidden talent remains unnoticed, or does it mean that late bloomers who manifest themselves after the test get the chance they deserve? That is what we have to consider today's initiative proposal, for which we thank you very much, which is what we should ultimately be talking about and which, in my opinion, all the groups in this Chamber attach great importance to: easy access to the very best education. Because like my grandmother, like you, like me, every child deserves the chance to get the best out of herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you. I would like to congratulate you on this maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting to allow the other Members to congratulate you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-05-tweedekamer-3.u78	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The moment of first-term response by the initiators will be further specified. After the suspension for lunch we start with the arrangement of work.
