ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is concerned about developments in the housing market. And yes, things are getting better at the housing market, but not by a long shot for everyone. Recently we received the news that streamers passed young people on the housing market. This is a worrying situation for start-ups in particular. You're just gonna be a starter right now. Getting a store isn't gonna work, 'cause the streamers are pulling the cart. They are responsible for two out of three transactions. For starters it is increasingly difficult to get in between. In fact, the number of young adults living with parents is increasing. If you have rich parents, there is a solution, but many don't. In itself, the CDA has nothing against the fact that young people live at home for a long time, but if it is forced to do so, we think it is undesirable. My main question to the Minister is, therefore, what is he going to do about it? It can't be that we're gonna sit around for a lot of years waiting for the young people to get back on their feet. What actions can we expect? What is the purpose of these actions? I'd like to know about the Minister. Can the Minister indicate whether the termination of the start-up loan by this cabinet will help to reduce young people's chances on the market? Earlier, I filed a motion because some of the starters are having trouble getting a mortgage. In that motion I would point out that the salary of starters often increases rapidly. The banks should be more flexible in their assessment of such requests. Lower energy costs should also be taken into account when it comes to energy-neutral housing, because then there will be no energy consumption. What happened to that motion so far? On 17 October 2016, the Minister indicated that he would inform the Chamber of the results of the Platform Customisation for Mortgages, which was established, among other things, following that motion. What is the state of play with regard to the study of customisation practice? What has the Platform Customization done so far? Maybe I'll come back to this in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. It's nice that the CDA is so involved in the housing market. I've been looking it up for a while. I've got it right here. The number of residential transactions under the cabinet-Balkenende IV up to the present cabinet can be seen. Then there is a rising trend for all transactions, by the way, for starters as well as for streamers. That's good news. It is also not the case that the success of the starters is at the expense of the streamers or vice versa. Precisely because of the flow of those streamers, there is also more room for starters. So the number of starters is increasing now. It is true that the number of streamers is now increasing faster than the number of starters, now that the economy is attracting. This is explained as follows. Those streamers don't necessarily have to flow through. They have a house and are pretty happy with it. They're waiting for them to get back into financial space. So there's some sort of catch-up effect now that the economy is back on track. People are gonna flow again now. As a result, there will also be more space for the starters. However, there is a problem, namely that there are too few homes. There's got to be more housing offers. However, we cannot do that with a magic wand. In the months I've been given, I try to do what I can. For example, I visit housing market regions and see what is needed in the eyes of local government to build faster, more, better and affordable. I have appointed Rob van Gijzel to ensure that the housing offer is increased, specifically in the middle segment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	I am somewhat disappointed in the Minister's response. You know, we could go for a while about what it's come through and what it's about. The CDA wants to make sure that anyone looking for a home can get it. The Minister wrote a year ago: "When I looked at the cases, I found that at the level of legislation itself there seemed not to be any obstacles to this, but that these consumers might have benefited from customisation." These cases mainly concerned start-ups. Mr Blok was then the Minister in this area. He then indicated that he would set up the Platform Custom. He would also investigate where the shoe was wrong. To date, the Chamber has heard no response to this. We've been seven, eight months. There's a growing need. There are more and more starters on the housing market who can't find a home. That is why I ask the Minister once again: what is the state of implementation of what has been set in motion? We're very curious. We in the Chamber would also like to know what further measures we need to take to improve the position of the starter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	I understand the questions. By the way, five questions have been put to BZK. The mother department has a lot of boxes. I have been invited to come to the Chamber to speak on the premises of residence about the message "Old seeks to pass young on the housing market." The answer to the specific question about the Platform Custom is to my credit to Mr Ronnes. He is obviously interested in it, so I will inform him in writing about the state of affairs of that platform that my predecessor invoked last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	I welcome the promise that we can expect a quick response from the Minister, but I am disappointed that the Minister cannot respond to it at the moment. Starters can't buy a house because they can't get a mortgage. That's the problem. So I'd like to see the reaction soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	That commitment stands, but the problem is, of course, that there is a lack of housing supply. This is not only a question of customisation, but also of building. I am constantly on my way to talk to several aldermen about the obstacles they seem to be experiencing to build at an emergency rate. One million homes will have to be built in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Unlike my colleague from the CDA, I am very pleased with the Minister's reply. He doesn't play young and old against each other. That's what happens in messages. I read, for example, 'young people are falling apart' and 'old strives young beyond'. Those are all things we need to do about. For example, for older people, they can hardly get to a suitable age-resistant home where they want to live their old age. Does the Minister agree with me that we should not just look at young people's problems or elderly people's problems, but that we should really tackle them both?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	I agree. That was also the thrust of my answer. Indeed, the ING message suggests a bit that young people cannot get a home because older people buy it. However, this is not the way dynamics work. Those older people flow to other homes and as a result there is also more movement in the start-up segment of the housing market. In itself, therefore, there is no conflict of interest. I think attracting the economy is working well for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you.
