ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u1	I have already welcomed the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a long history. From the 1990s onwards, attempts have been made to get the teacher register or the competence file off the ground on a voluntary basis, and all of this under the creed that - freely translated - "sometimes competent" is not synonymous with "always competent." There was a consensus that you need to keep up with your trade. Successive reports and opinions from among others the Education Council and the Rinnooy Kan committee have always advocated a teacher register. Last with the 2013 National Education Agreement, employers and employees in education agreed that participation in the voluntary register would be encouraged. According to information from the government, participation remained at roughly 45% in p.o., 35% in vo and 20% in mbo. Successive Cabinets supported this voluntary register and a possible commitment was foreseen in 2012. The proposal is now before us to make it compulsory. The teacher register shall be accompanied by a register portal, in which teachers who are still in the process of acquiring skills may be admitted. In addition, the profession of teacher is defined and provision is made for the teacher to have sufficient professional scope in the exercise of his profession. These measures make the profession of teacher more attractive to those considering a career in education, according to the explanatory memorandum. An important starting point of this legislative proposal is the wide-ranging desire for teachers not only to be competent but also to be permanently competent, as demonstrated by their continuing training activities. To this end, this professional register shall be established. In the end, at the earliest, in 2026, the step was taken that the teacher could no longer bear responsibility for the pedagogical and didactic process in and around the classroom if it had been found that he had not kept up with his competence and therefore did not meet the re-registration criteria of his own professional group. The members of the CDA Group share the Government's view that the quality of education depends partly on the teacher's training, the scope for teachers to exercise their profession and the possibilities for continuing training. The establishment of a teacher register may contribute to this under certain conditions, provided that the register includes recognition of the profession and guarantees the admission and exercise of the profession by exclusively competent teachers. A professional register can be found in many areas. Without wanting to be exhaustive: think about health care, architects, trusted persons and lawyers. In that sense, you'd say there's nothing new under the sun. As has been said, this bill has a long history. However, there is a certain reluctance on the part of employers and some of the employees against this part of the present legislative proposal. The question is, why? That is why I am asking the Secretary of State some questions to which the members of the CDA Group are asking for a clear answer. The PO Council, the VO Council and the MBO Council are in favour of a teacher register which aims to systematically maintain teachers' competence, but they warn me that I will translate it in my own words before confronting sectoral councils and professional groups at national level or from teacher and school administration at local level. By deliberately choosing this bill to give shape and content to the profession, the teachers, the teacher register, the councils see the risk of getting rid of the school. From the present law and the written reply, the members of the CDA Group have understood that a guarantee is built into Article 38c, third paragraph of the WPO. Today, in this Chamber, we would like confirmation of this by the Secretary of State and an explanation of this. With this bill, the time is taken, and therefore really the time is taken, to allow a careful introduction from the field. Only in 2026 will the full entry into force be. The PO Council, the VO Council and the MBO Council call for the date of 1 August a.s. to be postponed for the provision of data, simply because they do not believe that this will be feasible because not all schools have all the data. That is why our question to the Secretary of State is: does he see this problem? If yes, how sacred is the date of 1 August 2017? These councils also have reasonable doubts about the government's claim that the social partners can commit dismissal to non-compliance with the requirements of re-registration in the long term. The members of the CDA Group have the following question. The non-reregistration is not a ground appearing on the exhaustive list in the Civil Code of grounds on which a contract of employment can be terminated or dissolved, and I am referring to 7:669, paragraph 3. This law on dismissal laid down in the Civil Code also applies to special education. The question is whether the social partners should legally be able, if this ground is not yet included, not to re-register it as grounds for dismissal in a collective agreement, as the State Secretary stated in the written reply. The members of the CDA Group are aware of the sub-Articles (e) and (h) of this article in the Civil Code, but they wonder whether they are sufficient, and note that sub-paragraph (h) has been taken to court. They would like to hear from the State Secretary whether it is necessary to supplement or amend the Civil Code. And if not, why not? Last but not least: the lack of support. It is rightly pointed out from several quarters that this bill does not solve serious problems in education, such as the shortage of teachers and the workload. As has already been said, rightly so. That takes more than that. The CDA Group wholeheartedly supports that, but today we are restricting ourselves to this bill. First of all, the drafting of this bill. According to the government, it has increased intensively with the Education Co-operation during the making of the project. The Education Co-operative represents many teachers and applies nationally as the point of contact for the profession. This has also been confirmed in a discussion with the Education Co-operation. However, many teachers seem to have difficulty with this bill, whether or not it is due to a different experience of reality. The CDA fraction identifies a risk in the absence of support. That is why the CDA Group has carefully examined the objections of Teachers In Action. It raises specific questions. The answers to these questions are important for the final assessment. It is stated by LIA that the register is imposed from above and is not organised and organised by the profession itself. The members of the CDA Group read in the law and explanatory notes exactly the opposite, namely that this law explicitly asks the profession to come forward with a substantive proposal for re-registration criteria and the rules used in the validation of the professionalisation offer. According to the explanatory statement, it is the profession itself that determines the contents of the register through the meeting of participants of the Education Cooperation. In that meeting, each teacher has a voice, whether he is a member of a union or not. In our view, she is, as it were, the owner of this register. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? We ask the Secretary of State to give a clear answer. In our view, this is very important for the support base. A teacher register, including re-registration criteria and continuing training, which is conceived from behind the desk of the Ministry of OCW, will not support the CDA Group. LIA further notes that teachers with this register are not autonomous in the choice of professionalisation and that the money associated with this register can be better used, among other things, for autonomy to regulate their own professionalisation as a professional group. The members of the CDA Group, however, read in the present law and related documents exactly what is asked here, namely that the teacher has control over his continuing training activities. I'd like a confirmation from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u3	I appreciate Mrs Leggeby's attempt to ask the Secretary of State for clarification on this. I think it's okay if we get it. Nevertheless, I think it is about what she mentioned earlier in her speech, namely that the level of support is low and there is a big difference between the perception and the answer that the Secretary of State is likely to give, namely that it is all well arranged. Then I ask how it weighs up the results of this law and its necessity. What's gonna go wrong if we don't pass this law? It is already causing unrest in the profession, which actually needs so much rest. Where's the center of gravity for her?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u4	The focus is on two things. The register itself can do two things. It can lead to the professional attending the school having some kind of recognition that he is in that register and is therefore a skilled teacher. It may also be an incentive for teachers who need that incentive to start their continuing training activities. I consider the profession of teacher to be at least as important as that of lawyer or accountant. That is why I think it is very important that our children have teachers who do their job. If that's voluntary, it's my preference, but when I see what time has already been tried to do it voluntarily, I also have to think about what I want if it doesn't work voluntarily. Then I do not want a register that is imposed and filled in by OCW, but if the teachers can fill that register from the practical point of view on the basis of so-called one man, one vote, I think that is a good thing; next best after voluntaryity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u5	In theory, that's all very nice and also true, I think, if there were a lot of support. I ask Mrs Leggedoor once again: if this law does not go through, if we do not now establish a legal register, but perhaps take more time to see if the profession can come up with something for which there is more support, would something go terribly wrong in our education? Would we have incompetent teachers and bad lessons tomorrow? Or might it still be good in education, even if this law is not there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u6	I think teachers are high, as I just said. Teachers form our children, it's as simple as that. We do it at home, but most of the other time they go to school. That there are skilled teachers who ensure that our children receive the best education, for the future of the Netherlands and also for their own self, I think is a must. Do you think there's no support? That's just the question. I find 27,000 signatures against a teacher register a lot, but there are 250,000 teachers in the classroom. How do you weigh little support? I want to take all these objections seriously. That's why I'm going all over them. But it can't be that you only do things depending on acceptance, while you still have to nuance that support when it comes to numbers. That doesn't mean I'm taking them any less seriously, because I'm gonna go all over them. Mr. Chairman. LIA is afraid of unnecessary bureaucracy associated with re-registration and therefore takes a lot of time to prepare for good lessons. The members of the CDA Group read in the law and explained that it is the profession itself that determines what the re-registration requirements will look like and what is necessary to achieve a reliable assessment of continuing training activities. If that is true, then it is the teachers themselves who, from the point of view of the care mentioned, can shape it and prevent it from taking unnecessary time. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Teachers' trade isn't just a trade. It is an important profession for our society. Teachers, in addition to educators, make our children and young people valuable people with knowledge. Regardless of origin, they try to get the best out of every child. From the CDA Group nothing but tribute. In addition to money and opportunities, this deserves recognition and recognition of their profession. This can be done by means of a professional register. But one that is designed by practice, so the teachers themselves, in good consultation with school boards and teacher training. The fact that this is still to be done means that this further development will be incorporated into later legislation. In order to keep the finger on the wrist, we ask the Secretary of State to share this further development with the First Chamber. I've read something about that, but I'd like to hear a confirmation. We do not want to stamp it as a CDA, but to ensure that it is really shaped from the ground up. Because, as already mentioned, a teacher register, including re-registration criteria and continuing training, which is conceived from behind the desk of the Ministry of Education and Science, will not support the CDA group. We await the answer of the Secretary of State to the questions we have asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. The quality of our education stands and falls with the quality of the teachers. They decide if our children can get the best out of themselves. They are the cultural carriers that transfer values and standards. They teach our children cognitive and affective skills. The D66 Group believes that education for our society is the basis on which our prosperity is based. That's why our teachers earn a good salary. That is why the status of teachership in society is so important. Therefore, the conditions under which they should do their work should be good, and it is therefore important that teacher training is excellent and that the opportunities for further training and further training are adequate. The establishment of the teacher register and the register portal is intended to record and facilitate the requirements for competence and further training, so that this profession is in the same position as other professionals, such as lawyers, doctors and nurses. The introduction of the teacher register has long been mentioned. It was the Teachers Commission led by Alexander Rinnooy Kan who presented a report in 2008 on the fundamental threat to the future of the Netherlands as a knowledge-based economy: a quantitative and qualitative shortage of good teachers. This committee built on the report of the Van Es committee which introduced the perspective of the professional school in 1993, a close community in which the teacher's profession would be central. Several committees came up with similar ingredients to strengthen teachership: better remuneration, the establishment of a strong professional group and a professional school that defined in measurable results obligations how staff policy developed. The starting point was the involvement of teachers in decisions on education and organisation and ensuring proper coordination with the environment, i.e. horizontal accountability. Government, school administration and school management ensure that the conditions under which this can be optimally achieved are created. A teacher's register, supported by the profession, can help with this. The question we now have to answer is whether the legislative proposal before us meets the requirements of sufficient support among professionals and whether the legislative proposal before us is feasible to achieve the objectives that we, I think, share together, better teachers, better education and an upgrading of the status of teachership. The OECD recently published a report on the state of Dutch education. The Dutch education is good for it, internationally, but it is under pressure. The report points out that there are risks due to the fact that there are too many unauthorized teachers in the classroom. Surprisingly, our teachers carry out more than average professionalisation activities and, above all, need ICT skills and skills to deal with differences in the classroom. The OECD also recommends abandoning the non-binding nature of professionalisation. Professionalisation gets an impulse especially if everyone in and around the school agrees with the importance of it. There must be intrinsic motivation among all sections, according to the OECD. The present proposal has been discussed with many parties. The first question before us is whether there is sufficient support for teachers. This compulsory register has been preceded by a voluntary register. Of the target group, between 60,000 and 70,000 people are now registered, at least according to government figures. Others come to much lower figures and point out that a much smaller part has gone through the whole implementation process. Others of the registered people have had to do so in order to qualify for a teacher's grant. Support for the target group is of great importance, otherwise implementation will be extremely difficult. The register must be the teacher's and not be perceived as a bureaucratic tool of government and educational cooperation. That brings me to governance. In response to the criticism of the Council of State, the Cabinet has developed a roadmap for implementation. In addition, phasering is secured. Important elements of the law are transferred to AMvBs, ministerial arrangements or instruments such as the professional standard to be developed by the Education Co-operation. This makes the impact on implementation unclear for us. For example, it is unclear to the D66 Group whether the available training budgets and the available training hours now laid down in the collective agreement are sufficient. The bill makes the school boards responsible for the implementation of a large part of the register, but they have not been heard about the elaboration of the proposals. This will be deposited with the Education Co-operative. We consider that to be unbalanced. I'd like a response. The cabinet also tries to give teachers more responsibility through regional councils and to reduce the role of the Education Co-operation. How this is going to take shape is unclear for my group. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. The Council of State is extremely critical of the present proposal. He recommended reconsidering the proposal because there is no self-conscious profession based on its own ethos and resulting own standards and disciplinary law. If the government believes that surprisingly many teachers have already entered the voluntary register, the Council of State believes that voluntary participation should be regarded as very limited. The Council of State regards it as a major objection that the proposal does not put an end to the use of teachers without qualifications. In doing so, unauthorized teachers have access to the profession and there is no professional group which is also defined by disciplinary law. The Council of State also finds it objectionable that recognition of the profession of registered teachers is limited to an implicit right to continuing training, but that no positive distinction is made between the position of the qualified teacher and the unauthorized teacher. In short, the Council of State considers that essential conditions have not been met to ensure that the register is successful. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State to this fundamental criticism of the proposal. A few weeks ago, I got into a conversation with a young woman who took a teacher training course and was internship at a primary school in the Schilderswijk here in The Hague. She had great respect for the work the teachers do there under extremely difficult conditions. I asked her how she felt about the teacher register. Her answer was brief and clear. "First change the circumstances under which we have to teach. My class consists of 33 children! I don't need compulsory training for how to deal with such a large differentiated class. I want a much smaller class so I can effectively teach. The teacher register is currently a bureaucratic measure for me that does not help me, nor my colleagues." Wouldn't smaller classes, especially for schools in a disadvantaged situation, be a much greater contribution to the quality of teachers and education than this register? The Second Chamber has previously voted in favour of smaller classes and the Social Economic Council also points out that smaller classes are necessary to be able to give good education, especially in disadvantaged situations. In addition, smaller classes are necessary for the work of teachers. The workload is high in the sector. But so far, I haven't seen any action from the cabinet. What is the position of the Secretary of State on the need to reduce classes and what measures does the Cabinet propose? In fact, the criticism of the Council of State and a large number of teachers is the same, albeit they put it differently. The teacher's register should be the culmination of policies aimed at structurally improving the position of the teacher, increasing the prowess and preventing incompetence. The introduction of the teacher register, together with general compulsory training, can, under conditions, contribute to improving the quality of the teacher and thus to the quality of education. It is felt that the current proposal does not meet the conditions for implementation. The cabinet is looking at this quite differently. The D66 Group asks the Secretary of State to state precisely why he believes that this is now the right time for introduction and how the Cabinet intends to take steps to implement it responsibly. I come to the details of the proposal. During the course of the discussion, the Secretary of State, in response to critical comments from various sides, improved the proposal. At the time of treatment in the Lower House, however, the results of the pilots held in the p.o., vo and mbo could not be seen. That surprised me very much. However, it can be assumed that the pilots were meant to gain and share experience and that the results in the legislative process and implementation will be exploited. Why first treatment in the Lower House and then the results of the pilots? I also ask the Secretary of State to respond to a number of results from the pilots. That's not how one teacher is another. Does the teacher register give sufficient space to the differences between teachers in the p.o., vo and mbo? The teacher register shall be the guarantee of the teacher's development area. It is the space in which, intrinsically motivated, teacher development takes place. However, the register is often seen by participants of the pilots as an external audit. That calls for resistance. Pilots point to the importance of self-organising forms of learning, both individually and collectively, but the register is based on validated formal learning. This last point is particularly important for the D66 Group. It corresponds to the comments of the OECD, the Council of State, the PO Council, the VO Council and the MBO Council. You get better teachers when their own development is embedded in school practice. The linking of the register with HR policy is necessary. This also requires a certain openness, so that all those involved in the school have a clear understanding of the qualities and specific knowledge of teachers. If the register only records how formal learning is going, the courses, but does not allow for a professional learning culture with peer review, it will at best be seen as a necessary evil, but not as a contribution to improving the quality of teaching the teacher. In the Roadmap, how does the Cabinet intend to link informal learning with the school's HR policy? After all, a teacher who has difficulty with certain forms of teaching is not helped when he does a substantive course that delivers validated points, but has been helped with peer review and guidance in the classroom. His question must be closely linked to the school's HR policy and the development of his colleagues. That's the point. But that is not what the proposal provides for. In the further preliminary report, I asked the Cabinet to comment on the labour law consequences of non-reregistration. In the reply, the cabinet states that it is up to the social partners to agree on this. But can they? After all, the Civil Code contains a limited list of grounds on which a contract of employment can be terminated or dissolved (Article 7: 669 (3)). The non-recording is no grounds for dissolution. The PO Council, the VO Council and the MBO Council point this out in a letter to our Chamber. I'd like a response from the cabinet or they'll see it right. My group also has a great deal of uncertainty about the ICT package that should facilitate its implementation. Is this already available and tested and so low-threshold that it is easy to handle on 1 August 2017? Moreover, I find it strange that the cabinet considers, on my part, in the further reply to this point, that the school boards can retain an unregistered teacher by not letting him/her stand in the classroom alone or by giving him/her other duties. In doing so, the government ignores the purpose of the teacher register. In short, this point also deserves clarification. Summarizing: the D66 Group is in favour of the introduction of a teacher register, provided that a number of necessary conditions are met. There should be sufficient support for the target group, the register should belong to the target group itself, the register should not become yet another bureaucratic measure by the government, the teacher deserves good working conditions in order to be able to do his job properly, and the introduction should be careful. This proposal raises far too many questions about, among other things, feasibility. Our group is wondering whether it is actually appropriate for treatment in this house. It is for this reason that we look forward with great interest to the Government's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. With the publication of the results of parliamentary research into the future of teachership, entitled The Dream Kingdom of 1993, the start was given to the professionalisation of the educational professions and institutions in the Netherlands. In 2007 the advice included LeerKracht! by the Rinnooy Commission may give a further boost to the strengthening of the position of teachers. Now, ten years later, important steps are being taken to provide a solid institutional basis for the professional quality of the work. Different occupational groups in education, the teacher first, determine their own quality standards. They thus constitute an explicit professional standard and registration system, as an instrument for ensuring professional competence and maintaining the professional standard. It's time for all teachers to participate. That is why we are talking today about the legislative proposal for a platform, a so-called teacher register. What is the problem that needs to be solved here? The SP rightly asks: what will go wrong if we do not introduce this bill? Some teachers with long-term experience in the field recently described their practical experiences in the workplace. According to these teachers, following training was usually not recorded until the introduction of a teacher register. Many schools have their own digital programme which includes training, but if a teacher decides to work for another educational institution, this overview will be lost. Now there is often team training that does not match the individual development needs of teachers. In addition, the quality of training cannot always be assessed in advance. Many activities which do not in fact belong to training are nevertheless included. The profession can't stop that. This is often done for budgetary reasons. One can think of team-crossing activities that do not contribute to the promotion of expertise of individual teachers and vice versa. For example, teachers who obtained their education skills 30 years ago may not undertake appropriate continuing training activities. These teachers do not make sufficient use of the most recent educational, didactic and professional insights, so that pupils may not always receive the quality of education they deserve. Also on the basis of reports from, among other things, the inspection, it can be found that teachers are not yet sufficiently structured in terms of maintenance of competence. In primary education, only 40% of teachers have a skill file. In vo and in mbo, this percentage is much lower, namely around 25. These percentages correspond to figures from previous inspection surveys. Is this a lot or is this a little? They're relative concepts. One hair in your soup is a lot. One hair on your head isn't much. But it's not 100%; we agree on that. Why shouldn't we make that deal when it comes to the quality of education? Training activities are often non-binding and are not always aimed at improving teaching skills. A barrier to this is that teachers and school leaders have insufficient understanding of the training offer and its quality. All this does not mean that teachers are not motivated to maintain skills; there is no one who claims that either. In practice, however, teachers experience difficulties in working on them effectively and specifically, as can be seen from the above mentioned story. It is important that this kind of thing cannot happen. Education is at the heart of society and both pupils and teachers deserve high-quality education. A professional register can contribute to this and is not something new. For example, doctors, nurses, driving instructors and accountants have all their registers. There are differences between these sectors, which are reflected in particular in the various sectoral laws as set out by the Government in the detailed response to questions from the Labour Party. But when it comes to professional registers, there are also agreements. If you're not qualified, you won't get in. In order to remain in it, the standards for continuing training and flight hours have to be met. These standards are set by the profession itself. Inside, the system gives all the space for personal choices. This personal content is well and permanently in view because all activities are registered in the personal portfolio. This creates a better balance between team training on the one hand and individual needs on the other. The aim of periodic re-registration in the BIG register, for example, is to ensure that the physician has sufficient up-to-date expertise and thereby promote the quality of care. Doctors, I myself belong to this group, which has stopped its introduction for 30 years with obvious and understandable arguments, which are now also being used by opponents of this bill. But fortunately we didn't wait in care until the acceptance level was 100%. Neither did we when we agreed to stop a red light. My group has listened carefully to the arguments and concerns about such a register during the period under review, as expressed today by Teachers In Action. These arguments and concerns relate, for example, to government interference, lack of trust, bureaucracy and the relationship with the school, the team and the employer. Then let's take a good look at the exact meaning of such a register. The register for doctors, which is similar in some respects, has been in operation for more than five years. It turns out to add to the professional pride. It encourages and obliges, if necessary, those who remain behind to also keep track of their profession. It has ensured the development of a rich, validated and transparent supply of continuing training activities, especially since the individual competences covered by them are documented in each portfolio. For example, we have gone from a system of hour-checking lists to a validated, varied and transparent offer with a permanent dialogue between professionals, the peers, about that. It gives professionals a position in the dialogue with the drivers on the provision of sufficient resources and time for continuing training. I refer to the previous words on collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u9	I have a question about the situation with the doctors. Suppose someone does not meet the requirements for continuing vocational training and so on. What happens then? Can Mr Bruijn compare that with what is now regulated in this bill, namely nothing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u10	In doctors, this is how it's gonna be. If a professional does not meet the minimum requirements laid down by the profession itself for continuing vocational training, which are quantitative and qualitative requirements, a signal is given to the professional concerned with the question: how is this possible? In the end, he will be deprived of the right to provide care to patients. Then he can go to a trainer. Individual deficiencies and their causes can be considered. That trainer is responsible for training. This may be a very short training course, but it may also take a little longer. It depends on the individual gaps identified. It can also be about flying hours. You can go full-time for four years, but if you never touch a patient, you get out. I've never heard a patient protest that system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u11	I understand that very well. In fact, the draft law before us states that a teacher may no longer be responsible for the classroom at some point, but there are no consequences, because this has yet to be sorted out at the collective agreement table. How does Mr Bruijn view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u12	Mr Schalk is asking a very fair question. It's also a good thing he's asking that question. In medicine, it's the same thing. If the doctor does not meet the minimum requirements for education and training laid down by the profession, he is deprived of the right to treat patients. At that time, the hospital or any other employer, the membership in which he operates, might try to fire him on that ground. The employer can also give him other work. In practice, an employer will ask: how come you do not meet the requirements and what are we going to do about it? The employer can then say: we are looking for a trainer and make sure that your knowledge is updated and that you get the stamp "competent" again. Then the doctor can be put back in the register and then he can go on. In practice, therefore, there is no question of a resignation. In practice, it is precisely the desire to regain that competence. There's plenty of that possibility, too. I haven't seen anyone get fired against his will because he didn't meet the requirements. You can see that people who are struggling with their pensions won't be re-registered. There are also people who do not re-register for other reasons, for example because they want to pursue a different profession. In practice, however, I do not see any other problem here, as I say on the basis of my personal experience in medicine, rather than that the employer may no longer order the provision of patient care if someone is not competent to do so. As a patient, I say: that is a very good thing. Mr. Chairman. It is therefore important that this instrument should give professionals a position in the dialogue with the drivers on the provision of sufficient resources and time for continuing training. I refer to the previous discussions on the collective bargaining area in the context of time and money for continuing training. Professionals have little or no such position now. It goes against the fact that activities which in fact do not belong to training are included here, for example for budgetary reasons. Moreover, the register is de facto nothing more than a website with personal portfolios in which one can easily keep track of continuing training activities. All in all, it takes less than an hour a year. Interested parties see the added value. This applies to the employers and administrations, the unions, the professionals, but it applies especially to the patients. Against the certainty that all healthcare professionals keep track of their profession, no patient in the Netherlands has yet protested. In those patients, therefore, the acceptance rate is 100%. The teacher register and the registers for school leaders in the p.o. and vo are in full development. The teacher register has been in existence for a few years and has so far been voluntary. More than one teacher in five has now registered. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er meer dan 72.000.]] The number of entries in the voluntary teacher register is increasing weekly. Now it's time to pull the stragglers in. The cabinet therefore wants to take the step towards compulsory participation in the teacher register for teachers in the p.o., vo, special education and mbo and therefore wants to legally anchor the teacher register. Teachers wishing to retain their registration in the register, and thus their teaching capacity, must demonstrate their maintenance of competence every four years by recording the continuing training they have followed. Teachers who do not meet the requirements for maintenance of competence laid down by the profession itself shall receive a record of their entry in the register. If teachers do not continue to train on this basis, they should not, in the long term, be in the classroom until their skills are in order. So there's no sign of dismissal yet. If there is a desire to resign, we need a firing judge. In practice, you don't see that happening. As with existing professional registers, therefore, the profession itself determines the criteria for re-registration. Inside there is all the freedom for fulfillment based on personal need. The plans of the Cabinet also propose the introduction of a register portal, in which teachers who do not yet meet the requirements of competence are registered. With the portal, the cabinet aims to make the use of unauthorized teachers easier to understand and, where possible, to reduce them. The Prime Minister, who is today's birthday, is also an unauthorized teacher, and even he supports this measure. As we end our birthdays, I would also like to congratulate my esteemed colleague, Mr Ganzevoort, on his birthday. For several reasons it is therefore a festive day; not just because of this bill. The introduction comes as called for. The awareness of teachers to belong to a specific profession with their own professional identity and professional pride is increasing. The marking of that identity by a register is an additional incentive to develop self-awareness and self-regulation vigorously. A professional register stimulates conversation between professionals about professional quality, i.e. their competence and maintenance. This has proved to be the case with other registers. It is a powerful reason to step up professional training. This is done in concrete terms by setting up the meeting of participants. The meeting of participants, which we also see in other registers, is the owner of the register. Each teacher has direct control over all aspects of the teacher's professional quality. This includes competence requirements, professional ethics codes, re-registration criteria and validation rules. The Meeting of Participants will be set up in 2017. Of course, it is important that everyone can talk into it. How does the Secretary of State view the principle of one man, one vote in that meeting? Could this possibly be included in an evaluation after a number of years? Is the Secretary of State prepared to make a commitment on this, so that my group does not have to table a motion on this matter? The teacher register can, of course, only function as a conclusion to a more comprehensive process aimed at improving quality. Mr Pijlman has drawn attention to this and rightly so. That process is in full swing. The written exchange of views focused on the elements of that process, including the fight against the qualitative and quantitative shortage of teachers and the size of classes, in response to questions from different political groups. The skills requirements have long been at the heart of the professional identity. And teachers have been working on their professional quality for a long time to ensure the quality of education. Research has repeatedly shown that the quality of education is largely determined by the professional quality of teachers. Thinking about and improving this professional quality has been going on for years. This can also be derived from the average good quality of education. There has been much to do in the written exchange of views on the involvement of school leaders and school boards. We've talked to them all. It is not natural, of course, that the perspectives of teachers and administrations should coincide automatically at national and sectoral level. My group would like to ask the Secretary of State to go into this again. For my group, it is essential that the ownership of the professional standard and the content of the register should lie with that ambitious and professional profession itself, as is the case with the skills requirements. Society therefore ensures that the profession regulates this, but does not interfere with how the profession does it. The distinction between "how" and "what" we saw at the time in the report of the Dijsselbloem Commission, when it was about education. That is precisely the trust that the profession deserves and gets. Divorce from the "or" and the "how." In addition, the bill states that the proposal of the profession must be supported by a representation of the competent authorities. In practice, however, is it not true that the fact that professionals are now also discussing the minimum conditions for their continuing training does not alter the nature of the relationship between employer and teacher? The employer can and should, as before, make demands on his teachers on the basis of specific needs that fit, for example, the culture, denomination or didactics of the school and the team, including the HR policy as mentioned earlier, and possibly other school policies? It remains a matter between the employer and the employee. The profession is concerned solely with the question of whether continuing training is worth anything. So that profession doesn't decide what's going to happen. That remains to be determined in the vertical context. And if this leads to a certain choice of continuing training, is it of added value that the profession itself is involved in determining the quality and validity of that activity? Even if the employer and the profession are confronted on this subject, that debate would still be profitable. It is not the profession that makes the choices for the individual teacher. This remains to the person concerned himself, in dialogue with his supervisor or his team. However, due to the existence in the register of a good documentation of all continuing training of that individual teacher, the need identified from the school, HR policy and the team can be matched with the gaps in individual further education and training. I can't do that right now. This creates a better balance between team training and individual needs. We all consider that important in the Chamber. Does the government share this vision? Would the Secretary of State like to explain again in this context the situation with regard to the team grant p.o.? Can he confirm in a commitment that the stock exchange will actually be there, or that he will take this into account in the legal assessment that I have requested before, the horizon clause? In the further reply, the government discussed the introduction of the teacher register in three stages. During each of these phases, active monitoring of the implementation process will be carried out, taking into account in particular the development of continuing training. I would like to receive a commitment from the government that the outcome of this monitoring will be submitted to this Chamber. In the further reply, the Government has undertaken to continue to inform both Chambers of progress on this dossier. The government envisages a comprehensive process of introduction with AMvBs, coordination consultations, guidelines and other accompanying measures set out by the government in the PvdA's response to questions. This includes stimulating engagement, monitoring the impact on the education labour market and ensuring adequate implementation in terms of communication, data delivery and ICT development. I would like confirmation or a commitment that the government will inform this Chamber on this matter and will refer the AMvBs and any KBs to this House as well. For the sake of feasibility, I would like to draw attention to the provision of basic data for the register, particularly during the introduction period. The cabinet states in the reply that it wishes to make this as simple as possible. Can the Secretary of State say again about the administrative burden on schools and the feasibility of introducing them in mid-2017, why have several letters also been received? Is the government prepared to make a commitment to pay specific attention to the additional burden on schools and teachers in monitoring and to inform this Chamber? Finally, in the preliminary report, my group raised the question as to why the teacher register should not be set up in higher education, either as a first step or as a first step. In the reply, the government discusses agreements on increasing the number of teachers in higher education with a master's degree, PhD, BDB, BKE or SKO. All this represents an important step forward and ensures initial competence and, where appropriate, competence, which my group welcomes. However, it does not yet include the maintenance of competence of teachers in higher education. For example, when it comes to didactics and communication, this is maintenance for teachers in the h.o. often still rudimentary, as you can also notice on this input. Does the government endorse the latter? It is clear that my group believes that all teachers should be involved in the maintenance of competence. Against the certainty that all professionals in education keep track of their profession, no pupil, no parent and no employer in the Netherlands will protest. My group looks forward to the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. Professional registers are nothing new. They come in all shapes and sizes. It has already been said: care has, for example, the BIG register, in which the competence of more than 340,000 healthcare providers is registered. A healthcare consumer, or anyone else, who wants to check whether a healthcare provider is competent to exercise his or her profession, may consult this register. The Dutch Order of Lawyers has the national law tableau. There is even a national register of childcare and toddler playrooms. Then education can't be left behind, can it? Research has shown that one fifth to one quarter of all lessons in secondary education are provided by teachers who are not, or are not yet, competent. 23.6% is that, a fairly constant percentage over the years. Imagine this percentage in another profession. Imagine that almost a quarter of the surgeons would perform surgery for which they are not competent. That would lead to life-threatening situations. And no one who would find that acceptable. So once again, the question is: can education not be left behind? Just as a health care consumer can consult the healthcare professional in a register, a client the lawyer, a parent the child care provider, so should teachers and their powers be registered. There are several advantages for students and their parents. For example, they simply know who is actually in front of the classroom and the student is ready for a future education or job, and whether that person is competent to do so. In the case of unauthorized teachers, they are encouraged and encouraged to regain their competence and then, like all other teachers, to keep their skills in order and to continue training where necessary. The explanatory memorandum states: "The proposal for the legal anchoring of a teacher register is primarily concerned with the promotion of competence and maintenance of competence, resulting in improved quality of education." Because, if we leave the lack of competence of teachers for what it is, what value does it have at all? In other words, who is going to go to any lengths to get that power and keep it in order? According to the Secretary of State, is there thus a relationship between the relatively high rate of 23.6% of the lessons given by unauthorized teachers and the fact that there is currently no legally-established teacher register? I'd like a response. In addition to the positive impact on the quality of education and the positive effects for pupils and their parents, the legislative proposal also has positive effects for the teachers themselves. The bill is more than just a register, just to take away a misunderstanding. There's a professionalization hit being made. The bill is three-fold. It includes the definition of the profession of teacher, the recognition of the professional space of the teacher and, thirdly, the register itself, i.e. the requirement that the teacher register and keep track of his or her ability. The description of the profession of teacher included in the educational laws, as it is stated in the explanatory memorandum, refers to "the responsibility of the teacher for the subject-matter, subject-matter and teaching process." It is simply an recognition of the professional teacher. The PVV welcomes that. In line with the definition of the teacher's profession, this legislative proposal stipulates that teachers have sufficient control; control of the content of the teaching material, the way in which that teaching material is offered, the teaching and teaching approach to be used and fourthly, the maintenance of competence. It is recognition of the teacher in the classroom, the determining professional for the classroom. It is recognition of his or her professional space, the freedom to shape lessons. This, too, welcomes the PVV. After the teacher has entered the register and his ability is in order, he or she will work on re-registration, i.e. continuing training or further training where necessary. The criteria for this are laid down by the professional group of teachers themselves. They themselves put forward a proposal and the explanatory memorandum states the following. I quote. "The Minister of OCW shall also review the proposal of the profession as to whether it constitutes the outcome of a supported process. The Minister then adopted the proposal of the profession in more detail." Could the Secretary of State perhaps explain how the Minister works in assessing sufficient support? And if the conclusion is that there is insufficient support, then how? I'd like a response. The profession thus has the freedom to formulate the re-registration itself. I am going to quote again from the explanatory statement, which says: 'The profession is taking account of developments in the teaching profession, social developments and laws and regulations' when it comes to meeting the criteria. I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State on this. Does the Minister accept the proposal of the profession in no uncertain terms in further regulations, or are there any possible situations in which the profession fails to account for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u14	I am also on all sides in favour of the profession being able to fill that in itself, but I think that is what the discussion is about. The discussion is not so much about whether or not a teacher's register. I read to you that last year was approved the Girl Scout course in vo. That course has been approved for a competence in the teacher register. This means that an unauthorized teacher taking the Girls' Vet course can thus retain his registration in the teacher's register. I would like to ask Mr Kops through the chairman: is this improving the quality of the profession? Or do we suspect that we're about to get a little scandal about weird courses that keep our registrations up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u15	Mrs Gerkens can come up with many examples of what she is questioning. We at the PVV put the teacher at the centre; that is the professional in the classroom. We attach great importance to this profession. The teachers should indeed indicate what they need, what kind of training they need. They know best, because they are in class every day. Of course, that has to be validated. Absolutely, but again: it is the teacher who first indicates that. Mrs Gerkens can come up with a lot of examples, but that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u16	In my view, these teachers are telling us that they cannot do this in a good way and that they do not have a fiduciary in the way in which that teacher's register is now being formed. They point out that it does not increase the quality of the profession, but perhaps even reduce it in the end. So I repeat my question to Mr Kops: how are we going to ensure that quality is good?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u17	First of all, by placing responsibility on the teacher himself. I just said that. This is the professional, who should deal with the content of the teaching material, the way in which lessons are taught and the question of what kind of training is needed. Let me say first of all that we should not pretend that there is a perfect legislative proposal here, as if this teacher register is suddenly going to solve all the problems in education, including the point that Mrs Gerkens raises. That is not true at all, but it is a first step, a professionalisation blow that is being made here, and we welcome that. I mentioned that the profession should take account of developments in the field of teaching, social developments and laws and regulations. I asked the question whether the Minister simply accepted the proposal of the profession into further regulation or whether there were situations in which the profession failed to account for it. Are there any examples of this? Earlier today, a petition was handed over to the First Chamber. Teachers In Action, LIA, has launched a petition against the teacher register. What does the Secretary of State actually think of this? What does he think of the objections raised in the petition to the teacher register? We at the PVV have a very warm heart for the teaching and profession of teacher, but we do not understand that much about this petition. Since the petition was presented to the First Chamber today, I think it is fair to address some of the issues raised in the petition. For example, the signatories consider that the teacher register offers no solution to the current problems in education, such as the shortage of teachers. Firstly, as has already been pointed out, this bill is about much more than just the register. Teachers get more recognition and more control. Isn't that what the teachers should be talking about? Second. The fact that there is a shortage of teachers does not, of course, alter the principle that teachers should simply be competent and keep their skills in order, just as is the case with other professions. Why should there be a derogation for education in this respect? Or, as formulated by the General Education Association: as a teacher, you don't think it's okay to do nothing about further education for years because there is a shortage of teachers? Exactly! In addition, the signatories to the petition consider that the register is not organised and set up by the profession itself. As I said before, this bill strengthens the teacher's position: more recognition, more control. Teachers themselves can indicate the type of training they need. So I don't quite understand this objection. The teachers themselves decide which courses, trainings and trainings are useful for them. In short, anyone who expects this bill to be a panacea, as I said to Mrs Gerkens, in order to solve all the problems in education, has been deceived. As I said, teachers are given more recognition and more control over their profession. In addition, competence and maintenance of competence are promoted. There's no one to object to that, is there? We very much welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. Kids are the future. They have the right to develop and society has the duty to organise it. Education is the key to personal development but also to the prosperity and well-being of society as a whole. Education is a crucial value in the shaping years of children and young people. They get to know the world step by step and are the easiest and eagerest to learn new things in this period. In those years, they must have every opportunity to acquire knowledge and skills and to form their personality, their worldview and their interests. A favourable, inspiring start will continue to work for a lifetime. Parents and carers have a great responsibility in this and education is invaluable. A strong investment in the profession of teacher and teacher is necessary to enable the best education. The PvdA wants teachers to have more space and time to teach from their professionalism and passion, and also that they get more appreciation and a good reward. Following on from the extra space for their professionalism, the present bill of teachers asks that they continue to train in order to maintain their expertise and continue to meet the conditions for inclusion in the teacher register. The legislative proposal that we are discussing in plenary today aims to strengthen the position of teachers and to make their professional quality visible and improved. This is done through the introduction of a teacher register, whereby teachers must demonstrate every four years that they have maintained their ability to be eligible for re-registration. In addition, the present legislative proposal provides for a register portal, in which teachers who do not yet meet the requirements of competence are registered. The government believes that these measures make the teacher's profession attractive to those considering a career in education. My group would like to take this opportunity to discuss the Government's intentions in plenary with the Secretary of State. I would like to make no mistake about the fact that my group is in favour of a teacher register. It is an incentive for ensuring structural competence maintenance by each teacher. The creation of a strong, self-conscious and self-critical profession can also count on the support of my group. As has already been discussed by a number of political groups, support is essential for the successful implementation of the teacher register. That is not the case at present. The Education Co-operation does not yet function as a broad-based representative of the profession. The Lower House has the government in the motion of the member Straus c.s. Invited the Education Co-operation to encourage the association to be set up in the long term in such a way as to enable individual teachers to become members of the association, to elect their management and thus to have a direct say in the policy of the Education Co-operation. That motion can also count on the support of my group in this Chamber. The sectoral councils have repeatedly expressed very critical views about the lack of coordination with them. The Education Council is in favour of a teacher register, but not this teacher register. The Council of State considers the introduction of a compulsory teacher register to be premature in the current circumstances. Furthermore, the Council of State considers that the bill is unworkable and disproportionate. All this brings the Council of State to the advice of reconsidering the bill. Following this opinion, the government proposes that the teacher register and register front portal be phased in, as set out in the letter of 27 September 2016 to the Lower House. In that letter, the Secretary of State confirms that support for the legislative proposal in general and for the register is particularly important for achieving the common objective of strengthening the profession and the professional quality of teachers. He indicated that through regular polls among teachers and schools the level of support for the various parts of the bill was maintained. We ask the Secretary of State to undertake to inform the First Chamber at each new stage as specified in his letter of 27 September 2016, of the support for the Registry and of his commitment to achieve broad support. Much remains to be seen from the phased introduction of the teacher register and register front portal. The provision of data by schools should be started. Teachers should start registering. The re-registration criteria and validation rules should be established. As a result, many questions remain with my group. How does the Secretary of State commit himself to adequate and adequate training? How does he believe that the profession can develop further? Can he provide figures to justify the availability of sufficient time and resources? Part of this uncertainty will be removed by the two General Management Measures. The first is of a technical nature and concerns the supply of data. The second concerns the re-registration criteria and validation rules. My group would like to participate in a responsible transition to the first stage of re-registration and would like to be able to give a ruling on the second AMvB. Therefore, before the transition to the first stage of the re-registration, we ask the Secretary of State to give the AMvB a stronger guarantee on re-registration criteria and validation rules. We then ask him to anchor this in the next education law, which is run by both chambers. At the end of my speech I will come back to the transition to the final phase. My group would like to draw attention to the connection between individual professionalisation and school development. After all, professionalisation and learning should be mostly collective and collaborative. Learning and professionalising should ultimately have an impact on daily practice in schools. Is this not at odds with the use of the register as an individual instrument? In professionalisation it is important to organise this from the perspective of the entire teacher team. Research into the teacher fair shows that individual professionalisation is often not linked to school development and teachers with knowledge come back into school with which they can't get out of their way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u19	Where does the concern arise that the team, the school and the entire teacher's environment would be out of play with this? It's the team, the school, the supervisor and the relationship between all those involved who continue to determine what the individual does to keep track of that profession. This is, of course, broader than just continuing training. The profession is merely looking at whether what is happening there is appropriate in the opinion of that profession. That profession doesn't decide what to do, does it? Or did I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u20	There is a potential tension between the teacher register as an individual instrument and the school culture, where a collective interest plays. There may be no activity in the teacher register where teams participate. I want to take away that potential tension. At least I would like to draw attention to that. I would prefer to include in an evaluation the extent to which this tension exists and to what extent it is covered by the fact that it is possible to include team learning in the teacher register. It is not a matter of principle, but I would like to draw attention to the practical aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u21	I'm fine with the evaluation. My group will support the request. However, I do not share Mrs Sent's thoughts at all. It's a fundamental subject here. It is not the profession that determines what the individual does. That's still the school. That's still the team. The individual puts in the portfoliot what he's done. The professional group attaches a certain value to this. This can be a number of hours or competences involved, but the profession does not decide what happens. If the team considers it important and especially if the supervisor, who can give a service assignment, considers it important, it is impossible that nothing is done about team building in the context of continuing training. If necessary, it is a question of denomination, didactics of the school or specialization. There's no way it won't be in the register. The school dictates what happens, not the profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u22	However, the profession ultimately deals with the re-registration criteria and validation rules. I would like to draw attention to the inclusion of team learning, because otherwise a tension could arise between the employer who considers team learning important and the profession that does not include this in the re-registration criteria and validation rules. That tension is potentially present. It does not need to be present in practice. That is why I ask that this be included in an evaluation. That way, the care that exists now can be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u23	If there is indeed a tension between the school's vision, which determines what is happening, and the professional's opinion on it, then it seems to me that it is a good thing that the register brings that tension to the table so that we can have that debate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u24	If that can be included in the evaluation, I'm even happier. So we ask the Secretary of State whether team learning can be part of the evaluation of the bill and to remove our concerns about possible tension between the individual instrument and the team interest. An important task of the First Chamber is to assess the feasibility of legislation. The sector councils have already indicated in October 2016 that they need at least nine months to provide data for the teacher register. The specifications must first be published to the software providers, then the software packages must be adapted and then the schools can enter the data in modified software packages. This should fit in with the hustle and bustle around the end of the school year. According to current planning, school data delivery should start on 1 August 2017. However, the feasibility of the present legislative proposal requires that the start of the provision of data by schools be postponed until at least 1 December 2017. My group asks the Secretary of State to agree to this and to inform us of the consequences for the planning of the phased introduction of the register prior to the vote on the proposed legislative proposal. The above mentioned letter of 27 September 2016 states that the professional group prepared the proposal for the re-registration criteria and validation rules by the summer recess of 2017. This proposal may be differentiated by subject area or sector where relevant. We would like to ask the Secretary of State for progress on this proposal. Can he guarantee that this will be completed before the summer recess of 2017? If not, what effect does this have on the planning of the phased introduction of the register? Another important task of the First Chamber is to assess the relationship between a legislative proposal and existing legislation. The present legislative proposal assumes that social partners will agree on the labour law consequences of non-reregistration. However, there is doubt as to whether the social partners can link a legal effect to non-compliance with the requirements of re-registration. These concerns have already been expressed by a number of other groups. After all, the right of dismissal provided for in the Civil Code has a limited list of grounds on which a contract of employment can be terminated or dissolved. Non-recording is not a ground included in this list. Because of the closed nature of the redundancy scheme, the social partners are not legally allowed to include a land other than that mentioned in this exhaustive list in a collective agreement. As a result, the effect of labour law cannot be shaped by the social partners as a consequence of non-reregistration. My group therefore asks the Secretary of State to share a legal test on this issue with the Chamber prior to the vote on the proposal before us. I would like to return to the firm investment in the profession of teacher and teacher that the PvdA considers necessary to enable the best education. My group agrees with the reply that combating the qualitative and quantitative shortage of teachers has the attention of the government. It is one of the pillars under the "Teacher's Agenda 2013-2020: the teacher makes the difference." The Lower House is regularly reported on the progress of the agenda, on the influx into teacher training courses, the creation of more and flexible routes to the teacherhood and the guidance of starting teachers. In the motion by Mr Grashoff and Mr Ypma, the House of Representatives asked the government to come up with an ambitious plan to deal with the shortage of teachers in all sectors of education, with explicit attention being paid to remuneration and career prospects, training structure, quality of training and reducing the workload of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u25	I would like to know from Mrs Sent whether this call is late. We are now at the end of this government period. Now she's coming with this call. That might have been a good thing at the beginning of this government period. Then this register could have been a final piece of it. I would like to hear a response from Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u26	The register will eventually be a closure, as the letter of 27 September 2016 from the Secretary of State provides a roadmap for the introduction of the teacher register. It's called cross-compliance. One of the preconditions in that letter is the educational labour market. There is, therefore, no doubt that attention is paid to this pre-condition before labour law consequences can be attributed to non-compliance with the re-registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u27	You mentioned a number of conditions, but you also said: we are going to start with the register now. Then how do you keep the finger on the wrist? You're already putting your cards on the table, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u28	I've already asked for a commitment. This concerns the weighted front of the AMvB corresponding to the re-registration criteria and validation rules. I would like to ask for a second commitment on the entry into force decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u29	I have the impression that Mrs Sent has asked for another commitment in the meantime, namely to postpone the vote until there is a legal test on an aspect she mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u30	I asked if the Secretary of State is in a position to share with us a legal test on the relationship between the bill and our dismissal system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u31	Indeed, and I believe that Mrs Sent made the point that the votes could only take place after that. What if it didn't happen within the week? Does she propose to postpone the votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u32	It seems premature to me to make a statement on this at this time. I expect a good answer from the Secretary of State on this point. Anyway, I'd rather wait before I go into this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u33	What exactly does Mrs Sent want tested? That question is, of course, very important if we are to stop this important legislative proposal because of this test. The question of whether or not there is a dismissal ground is different in each individual case. One teacher will be two years behind in his continuing training, the other a week. One will be about certain competences, the other will be about flying hours. How does it see the possibility of legal review in a general sense? Is it not true that this register offers the possibility and flexibility for the employer and the employee to assess the reasons for the delay and to do something about it in that individual case? It doesn't have to be like that at all. Which is also undesirable, because we already have a shortage of teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u34	It does seem to me to be the desirable route that it does not come to that. But when it comes to this, I would like to make it clear what consequences this has for the relationship between employer and employee. Preferably, I want that clarity already. I would like to ask you in a moment for a second commitment I would like to make on the phased introduction. We would then always be able to re-examine the relationship between the legislative proposal and the possibilities offered by the Civil Code when making labour law consequences of non-compliance with the re-registration criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u35	I fear that Mrs Sent is asking for something that cannot be done, given the pluralism of the case, but we shall hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u36	If it's possible in principle, I'm one step further. That's what it's really about. Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with Mr Grashoff and Mr Ypma's motion. The government has indicated that it will do its utmost to come forward with the plan of action before 15 February 2017. We are pleased to receive a copy of this and we will hear from the Secretary of State whether we can expect this for the next week. After all, it is tomorrow 15 February. The PvdA would like to ask for special attention for side-instromers in the MBO. They are the link between vocational training and professional practice. For MBO, it is important that it remains stimulated. Since they first enter the register portal, there is a concern that it will become unattractive for schools to adopt side-intromers. In the House of Representatives, the motion of member Bruins requesting the government to provide the Education Co-operation as a framework for setting up the rules on the teacher register in such a way that there are no obstacles to the recruitment of side-instromers, practical and experience experts and professionals, especially in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u37	I actually expected Mr Kops to be standing here now, because what Mrs Sent is proposing here is that it is still possible for unauthorized people to continue teaching in education. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u38	The legislative proposal as it stands now makes it possible for side-intromers to be registered via the register front portal, temporarily, until they are authorised and entered in the register. That is merely an explanation of the way it is now designed in the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u39	Then I understand that the PvdA says that at least this register didn't come out to get unauthorized people out of education. That possibility just has to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u40	It's a registry portal. The intention is that a transition to the register will eventually take place. The motion by Mr Bruins in the Lower House can count on the support of my group in this Chamber. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to inform us about the progress made on the implementation of this motion. We note that failure to comply with the requirement of continuing vocational training will ultimately lead to the exclusion of the profession, while unauthorized teachers will be allowed to practise the profession. Does the Secretary of State share our impression that this makes the bill disproportionate? I would like to get a response to this point. More generally, the Secretary of State himself, in his aforementioned letter of 27 September 2016, describes the framework conditions to be met when the last stage of the register enters into force. At this stage, the second four-year period will start to re-register, which will also have a legal effect. This legal effect is that a teacher should not be in front of the class if he or she does not comply with the re-registration. These framework conditions include ensuring support for the register, developing relevant professionalisation offerings and preventing unintended effects on labour market demand and supply relations. With this letter in mind, we ask the Secretary of State to give the Royal Decree with which the final phase enters into force, in order to give both Chambers an opportunity to assess whether the conditions necessary to enable the teacher register to enter into force carefully and responsibly have been met. We then ask him to anchor this in the next education law, which is run by both chambers. I will conclude by stressing once again that my group is in favour of a teacher register. But then this must be a register that indeed improves professionalism and appreciation. It should not merely lead to more administration and control. And it should not lead to a huge offer of questionable professionalization, which in turn will lead to control and a quality check of this offer. For the time being, we are not in favour of the corresponding road map. The reason is that we do not want to give carte blanche for a roadmap in which the parliamentary influence on individual phases is uncertain. That is why I asked the Secretary of State to give us influence on the individual transitions. With my group, therefore, I look very much forward to his answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mr. Chairman. Today, as has been said, we are discussing the legislative proposal that a teacher's register should be legally anchored. Because the teacher register already exists, albeit voluntarily. In doing so, the government intends to respond to the desire to ensure that teachers are not only permanently competent, but also competent. I would like to address this objective. The premise that precedes this is that the teacher can only keep up with his competence through training. The consequence of that premise lies ahead of this bill. On the assumption that teachers can only keep track of their competence and ability through training, there is still a lot to be done. Besides, it's different for every profession. The tricky thing is that the discussion with the Secretary of State does not make much sense. After all, it is not the Secretary of State who determines what the requirements for registration will be in the register, but the field of work. My group regrets, however, that the Secretary of State supports the adage that can only be maintained through further training. Ability can be preserved in so many other ways. I did one of my first internships on what was called the 3rdTS on the Timorplein in Amsterdam. That was a pretty depressing environment. Students with the most sad backgrounds, a student whose mother as the only parent earned her money in prostitution and gave her son 100 guilders at the beginning of the week to get through the week. That's as far as he saw her. Students who only started school in October, students who went to prison during the year. Most teachers at this school took their lessons, but two teachers made that school. They were always there for the students, even after school. They made the difference for many students. Their skills cannot be taught in further training, not a course that can provide relief here. I regret that this aspect of teaching is not reflected in the register. But also that precisely these teachers, who spend their free hours in those students most in need, are now going to be paid for at 160 hours of compulsory training.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u42	Mrs Gerkens is making a caricature of what is really happening here. It is now the case that there is no insight into how one keeps track of one's profession. This register is certainly not just about education, it is about all the ways in which teachers themselves think they can keep up with their profession, for example by teaching hours, by doing something about peer review, by doing something about education, by publishing something or by reading something. Anything the profession itself finds contributing to keeping up with that course, including giving those lessons to which Mrs Gerkens refers, can be validated by that profession, as a contributor to the maintenance of competence. That is the essence of this instrument. I do not think Mrs Gerkens does justice to that by sketching it as she does now. I would therefore ask her to let her light shine on that once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u43	I believe that Mr Bruijn does not do justice to these teachers who deal with their pupils in this way. He says it can all be determined by the profession if you're a good teacher. What I am trying to argue here is that being a teacher is so much more than just training courses. What I fear is that we will soon have a register in which teachers will see which course will deliver most points in as short a time as possible. They do not have time to professionalise, as the classes are too large and the workload is too high. This register should have been a closure, instead of the sword of Damocles that is now hanging over the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u44	So now we have the misunderstanding, because Mrs Gerkens probably did not read the proposal properly. It says: all types of activities that contribute to the maintenance of competence, including teaching at the school and the many activities, other than courses, can be validated by the profession. It's the teacher who decides what he does. He puts that in his portfolio. If the profession gives zero points, that is a completely different story. Fortunately, I now understand that Mrs Gerkens' description is based on a misunderstanding. It's taken away my concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u45	I know that Mr Bruijn always likes to turn my remarks in his direction. But he'll also understand that he's charging himself far too quickly. For this is precisely the problem: to say that we as a government have no responsibility for this, because it is the profession that fills it all out. Then we look at a particular profession, where we see that there is no support for this proposal, but that does not count. But we're laying down something legal here that has consequences. If we are prepared to bear those consequences, we need to look at what those consequences could be and how we can reduce them as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u46	Finally, Mr Bruijn, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u47	The responsibility of us as a collective, regulated by the government, is not reduced by this law, translates into our work here, translates into the work of the inspection, translates into the conditions of funding and translates into all kinds of ways in which the minister can intervene. I am glad to hear that this misunderstanding is also due to the fact that Mrs Gerkens does not know what is in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u48	Sorry, I'd almost call that a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u49	I think you're right, if you'll excuse me, Mr Bruijn. You say that Mrs Gerkens does not know what the law says, and I think that is very strong. Please continue, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u50	We want to use this register as a driver, where it should be a final part of the whole package of measures. Since the register is filled in by the profession, it is not appropriate for us to go into what should or should not be in it. And yet here lies the most pressing point. Because here we decide whether there will be a legal obligation. All the consequences of this, such as the costs, the teaching power, the quality gains, the workload, they will be on our plate. I often hear it said that it is the teachers themselves who shape the register and that is why they have nothing to fear. First of all, I think that the teacher has something better to do than to look into this. The majority of the teachers are already tired of everything that comes towards them. Apart from that, however, it is far too early to draw up the requirements for such a register. A register is based on a zero measurement, a situation in which everything is more or less in order and the requirements for a register should indicate what minimum efforts the profession should make to maintain that level. But we know that the framework conditions for that level have not yet been created by far. It's not that there are no problems in education. Attention is constantly being asked for full classes, lack of teachers, unauthorized teachers, lack of time for good teaching preparation, and there are only a few left. But they're important. I therefore understand the irritation of the teachers who signed the petition, irritation already foreseen by the Council of State. The legal introduction of the teacher register is premature and lacks support. In fact, both the Council of State and these teachers say the same thing: first, give us time to improve the quality of our education ourselves before we are again required to do all kinds of things. Nor is my group entirely convinced of the explanation given in the further pleading to employment law and this register. In the end, this register deprives the teacher of his teaching capacity. That is a very heavy means, as the Council of State also ruled. But isn't the teacher's quality of teaching something that needs to be judged by the school leadership? If the teacher is deprived of his or her education, he or she will remain employed at the school. The Secretary of State suggests that another post should be sought within the school. It's not that easy to find. And so we are going to be dealing with schools that have teachers, who were qualified, but are not now. Nevertheless, these workers must also be paid. I share the concerns expressed by the sectoral councils on this issue and ask the Secretary of State to clarify this. For the sake of clarity, I agree with the questions put by D66, CDA and PvdA in relation to the Civil Code. In addition, we have to deal with the strange split that there will soon be a legal register of teachers which will enable us to take away the right of teaching and, on the other hand, create the legal right to adopt side-intromers, people without teaching authority. Isn't there some kind of legal injustice here? I imagine an experienced teacher who is no longer allowed to teach is looking strangely at the side-intromer who may take his place. Remarkable is that the Secretary of State says that there is no heavy administrative burden from the register. He expects an hour and a half per year to fill in, but in one breath he mentions the meetings that you now have to attend in order to be able to talk about the completion of the register. And, of course, with this register, the shortage of teachers is only getting worse. All the regrets who decide to return to education will no longer be able to do so. That is a missed opportunity, because it is they who bring the practice back into school. I agree with Mrs. Sent. What worries me the most is the basis of support. Teachers In Action indicates that she is not against the teacher register in itself, but against this, as she experiences it, registered from above. If I may translate it, the teachers will see a new obligation coming along, the consequences of which seem to be severe and the conditions are still in full development. And then I understand the word "premature" used by the Council of State. I therefore ask the Secretary of State why he chooses to have this register established with great pressure. What is the reason why we need to do this right now? What will go wrong if we do not adopt this proposal today? I want to know seriously about the Secretary of State. And the other way around: what negative effects does this have, given all the unrest that this causes for the teachers? Would it not be better to have this register crystallised on a voluntary basis and not to have a legal stamp on it until all the discussions have been conducted in the field of work? By making the register legally mandatory, we share responsibility for its results. If I take that responsibility, I want to be able to see the consequences of it. In recent months many signatures have been collected against this register. I would like to stress that 'that' register, because the teachers are not against a register in themselves either. Now the sectoral councils have also been behind them. Nor are they reassured that this register will bring what we intend to do with it. There is therefore broad support for postponing the register. In itself, you could say that this is a profit, also for the register itself. The debate has started and the need has been confirmed. Is it not now back to the field of work itself to take the next step? Current events have already caught up with this debate, because I read in the newspaper this morning that there is a request to postpone the introduction of the law. This will meet at least one of the requirements of the field of work. But the field of work mostly asked us not to adopt this bill. I would like to put another proposal here: I would like to ask the Secretary of State to uphold the law until there is clarity about its content and its impact. Everyone feels that uncertainty, uncertainty and speed cause too little acceptance. At the same time, all parties say that they are not against the register in itself. One way to deal with this can be to postpone the introduction, but to pass the law. De facto, then, the factor of speed has been reduced, but uncertainty and uncertainty remain. I ask the Secretary of State to continue the treatment until it is clear how the teacher register is going to take shape. I ask the Secretary of State again: what will go wrong if we do not introduce this law now? I am very curious to hear his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u51	I have a question about Mrs Gerkens' last appeal. Would only delay, take the time to look closely at the introduction, be enough, or should there be any further adjustments? The latter would mean that the Secretary of State would actually have to take the law back and perhaps come up with a novelle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u52	I have the impression that Mr Schalk has ideas about this. If so, I'd like to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u53	To be honest, I didn't have a lot of ideas, but when Mrs Gerkens put that question here, I thought: you can say, of course, "do a little longer about it," but does that help? Is that enough, or do we really need amendments to that law that we need to point out so that the Secretary of State knows what he can or should do at that time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u54	That's one way to look at it. Then you should point out for yourself how the discussion in the field should be shaped. That's a possibility. However, when I hear that teachers are still enrolling in the register at the moment and when I hear how much it raises, I think: there is movement now; let's see what wishes emerge from the field of work. Then the Secretary of State can always decide that something may need to be changed here and there. But I think that's up to them right now and not us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u55	I would like to ask Mrs Gerkens one more point, namely her confidence in the field. Does she even have that? She suggests that she does, but when it comes to the course offer that will be used, she suddenly sees all kinds of opportunistic, easy-going teachers who want to get out of it as quickly as possible. She also makes it a bit of a matter that there would be all kinds of ridicule courses that the field has nothing to do with. Why does she think teachers would take a useless course, that that course would be validated by those teachers themselves, and that the leaders of those teachers would think that was a good plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u56	That's a lot of questions in one. Mr Ganzevoort actually suggests that I think teachers do this because they like to take easy courses. Let me take that suggestion away. I think that the workload at the moment is so high that it also has to do with the demand from the field of work that a teacher, if there is another course to be added, says: I will get the one who gets me the most at the shortest possible time. I can imagine that very well, because that too must be done under enormous pressure of time. That's why I'm wondering if we're entering this register this way. Why don't we just say, "What does the field need?" This is rest and sufficient time for good teaching preparation and rest and sufficient time to see which courses or forms of further training are included. That is how Mr Ganzevoort expresses my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u57	I admit that other things are needed, but that does not say very much about what is needed here. My point, however, is that she makes quite a number of these courses. She did that in written questions. She then asked: is a class of autism useful if you don't have autistic students? That course can be very good if, for example, you expect to have it in your class next year. It's up to the teacher and in charge to do that. She asked, "Is a class of girl venom useful in class?" It can be extremely useful, given the way girls treat each other. This could be a very subtle way of exercising power. It is extremely important that teachers can manage that a bit. I think it is under the guise of the debate that we should be having here and under the measure of the confidence that we should give to the profession to ridicule it here now and to pretend that these are all useless courses that are simply being followed with ease.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u58	But then you make a number of the fact that I mentioned these examples, Mr Ganzevoort, because you are suggesting that I say that all courses would be like this. I'm not saying that. Of course, there are also post-HBO and master's programmes between those courses. That offer is very wide. However, you have also heard the examples of courses that make me, and probably you, frown on the eyebrows. It is a question of making it legally clear that such courses are good for the quality and expertise of the profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u59	I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort for a very brief and final interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u60	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. This was also my first interruption today. I am concerned with the following: is Mrs Gerkens confident that the profession itself, that teachers choose a course that is necessary for their professional activity, that managers approve it if it is useful and that what is worth it is validated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u61	The answer to this cannot be unambiguous. On the one hand, I trust that this profession can, will and will certainly do so. A large part of the profession likes to take a good course. On the other hand, I know that there are also courses that the profession thinks: you don't tell me anything new here, but I turn this lesson off, because then I get points. It is not that I am talking about everything, as Mr Ganzevoort suggests. However, it is the reality that this also happens in the field of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u62	I'll come back to my earlier interruption. I didn't want to make a personal statement. If that happens, I'm sorry and I'll take those words back. Let me rephrase this: does Mrs Gerkens at least agree with me that the alleged adage that maintenance of competence could only be achieved through training is not included in this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u63	That's not so literal in the bill, but there's a premise ahead of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u64	In my view, Mrs Gerkens and I agree that it is desirable to have a teacher register. In my view, we also agree that the introduction of a teacher register should be carried out very carefully and that a number of conditions should be met. This should take into account the situation on the labour market and the support of teachers, the profession which owns the teacher register. Would Mrs Gerkens be able to vote in favour of the bill if the First Chamber were given the opportunity to express its views on the roadmap at a number of fixed times and on the way in which the conditions for the careful introduction of the teacher register have been met?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u65	That depends on the conclusions that are then made. That saying is one thing, but if it could also mean that somewhere on that road map we are putting down a number of "go/no go" moments, I would find that very interesting, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u66	Mr. Chairman. As far as I can tell, a lot of teachers have a lot of resistance against the ministry of OCW. This is, of course, because in education there is a feeling that very often far-reaching decisions are made that education is faced with without having any real influence on it, but which have an impact on the content and methods of work and are often accompanied by an increase in the administrative obligations of schools and staff. I will not comment on whether that negative feeling is justified, but that feeling should at least be taken into account, because it is fed daily by the problems felt by everyone in education. These problems are real, and they are also discussed today by all the parties. The classes are too large, especially if everyone has to be taken into account in the context of Together to School. That is not always possible either: there are apparently thousands of children at home. Partly because of this, differentiated lessons must be given everywhere. That sounds nice, but as it turned out last week, even that is not only beneficial, because three quarters of the dyslexia cases should be known about that. The number of weekly teaching hours of a Dutch teacher is considerably higher than for by far the majority of European colleagues. The salaries are not bad, but they are such that many teachers look a little envious to other sectors and especially first-degree teachers are almost impossible to get. There is, moreover, a shortage of teachers across the board and often unauthorized workers. Despite this, the commitment to education is generally very high. The proceeds of Dutch education are, in general, very good in international comparisons. There must be more teachers, better trained teachers and more academically trained teachers. It is therefore necessary to work on the status of teachership. The government understood that very well. Hence the legislative proposal before us, which is why we must now ask ourselves whether it can make a meaningful contribution to solving the problems of education, especially in relation to the status problem, and thus the problem of deficits and unauthorized persons. The government places great emphasis on the fact that the teacher register will be of, for and by the teachers, i.e. ownership. Will it really work that way, or will it be another bureaucratic institution that thinks things up for the teacher? In the Education Co-operative, not all teachers feel truly represented yet. The existing register is far from drawing enough tenderers. BON, Beter Onderwijs Nederland, has withdrawn from the Educational Cooperation, while BON, as a professionally somewhat conservative educational think tank, has a lot of goodwill, especially in vo. LIA, Teachers in Action, collects tens of thousands of signatures in no time, not against any form of teacher register but against this law. How does the Secretary of State estimate the supporters of the Education Co-operation and the support for the law and why? The teacher register is always compared as an icon for the professionalization of the teacher profession with the BIG register of the doctors and with other registers, but such a comparison is relative. Medici should be kept informed of real new developments in knowledge, medication options and possibilities of physical interventions. Without it, a patient is seriously deficient. Medici must also remain in their profession in order to continue to apply that specific knowledge and skills. The BIG register serves to keep those harsh requirements verifiable. This is something else for teachers. Of course, there are no deaths in education by using unauthorized persons and certainly not by attracting talented outsiders who want to take on this socially important profession. In education, there may also be not very much to keep up with in many subjects, and sometimes "keeping up with" comes down to keeping yourself well informed about new developments, reading new literature and reading the papers and journals. I agree with Mrs Gerkens. I think Mr Bruijn very quickly concludes that this will be validated in the new system. This does not mean that genuinely meaningful continuing training would not be possible. In terms of teaching or teaching, and very often of course also in terms of professional content, it is certainly possible, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u67	I'm being provoked. In the existing systems such things are indeed validated, but in the new system for teachers the question is whether the teachers themselves consider this sufficient. My question to the speaker is whether the beauty of this system is not right that the teachers themselves decide what the lower limit is. If there is never any extension of knowledge in a profession, for example, I have heard it said by a history teacher, for example, that lower limit can be set to zero. The question then is what new knowledge appears each time in the thousands of historical magazines, but this aside. My question is, therefore, whether this system does not very well provide for the freedom to determine the lower limit as a professional limit itself, even if it is very low.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u68	We do not, of course, know at the moment how this will work out and how the Education Cooperation and the Members' Assembly will judge it. However, I doubt whether few verifiable things, such as keeping things for themselves, will simply be regarded as validated continuing training. I don't know yet, but let's wait and see; maybe it is. At present, the reality also seems to be that a lot of official, though validated, continuing training is perceived as a pointless pastime. Can the direction to be taken from the Education Co-operation really change this, or does this just mean that hours have to be spent on what someone else, an organisation, has invented and what does not really help to do better work? That fear is common. That is perhaps the most important question in this law. It is also clear here that there is still very little insight into how the teacher register is to be filled out; I have just discussed this problem with Mr Bruijn. The concrete work will soon have to be carried out in AMvBs and ministerial arrangements, on further advice from the Education Cooperation Committee. Will it, for example, in terms of continuing training, find a better wheel than what has been invented so far? At least it'll be mandatory. As a qualified teacher, you have to comply with the re-registration obligations, otherwise you lose the right to teach after 2026. Your own fault, big bump of course, but then you're a big problem, not only for yourself, but also for the school where you're employed. Following all the questions raised in the written rounds, the government raises the question of what should happen then, not beyond that collective agreement parties have to settle whether such a competent but not more registered teacher should do other work within the school. Checking rehearsals under the responsibility of a real teacher, maybe even an unauthorized teacher? Surveilling or bringing coffee around? Anyway, this is an expensive joke. Can the Secretary of State understand that some teachers but also directors and supervisors are not happy about this? The teacher register could take care of a number of things, such as checking continuing training, but according to the Law BIO, the employer should actually do that check. I also mention checking the time when an unauthorized person is required to obtain his or her authority, but the inspection must pay attention to that, as must the number of lessons given unauthorizedly. And when it comes to controlling the periods in which a teacher, qualified or unauthorized, really has a job and is not outside the education system, how important is that? The teacher register should also contribute to the teacher's professional image. It could and should indeed mean that registration means that this professional and socially highly valued profession can be proved. Unfortunately, the profession itself does not feel sufficiently appreciated by society in all respects, and therefore there are still far too few qualified professionals. Is this not also the background to the opinion of both the Council of State and the Education Council that this bill is not very wrong, but premature? A good idea, but for the time being rather attention, effort and also focus the money on what are more important problems at the moment? I'd like to hear how the Secretary of State feels about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u69	Madam President. I was asked to speak this afternoon on behalf of the Christian Union Group. Of course I'd be happy to. One question that always works well is this: when you think back to your school time, who was your best teacher then? Then you get all kinds of surprising answers. Everyone's got someone in mind by now. But then the next question: what was so special about him or her? Did that have to do with the course, with the content, or with the teacher's person? Did that have anything to do with his ability or his authority? You can ask those questions for schools, too. What about the quality of schools and then in relation to the staff? This morning, I was in contact with administrators of two school communities. One is the Fruytier school community in the Apeldoorn-Urk-Rijssen region. With them are all quality cards on green. At the Elsevier test they achieved 16 supers and 22 enough to good on four indicators, but they recently received a letter from the Ministry that they had 26% of the lessons given by unauthorized teachers. The other example is Calvin College, Goes-Middelburg-Tholen: only green quality cards from the inspection, according to Elsevier a super school, but the Ministry uses the thumb screws: 21% unauthorized lessons. Of course it is true: a super school can always go for a super-de-luxury school, and for that good teacher or teacher the best is not good enough, even in the legislation. That is why we must ensure that they are served on the one hand and protected on the other. That is the way the SGP and CU groups look at this bill. The special feature of this bill is that this is yet another attempt to put teacher's profession on the map, by setting up a whole structure. There was talk about the foundation; that would be the professional space. Reference has been made to the three pillars of this bill: the recognition of professional space, the recognition of the teacher's control and the arrival of the teacher's register.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u70	Mr Schalk mentions a number of schools with apparently quite a high percentage of unauthorized teachers. Does he have any idea where that lack of competence comes from, why these teachers aren't qualified?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u71	Sure, that's an interesting question indeed. Of course, I immediately asked these schools to do the same. It was not 21% or 26% unauthorized teachers, but 26% of the lessons were given by an unauthorized teacher, and that is something completely different. I'll explain why. For example, you have a physics teacher, who is competent for his profession, because he is a PhD in physics, but as soon as he teaches chemistry, he is not competent for that. That's weighted and measured. At that point, that lesson was given by an unauthorized teacher. That's an example. Another example is that they teach in the form of team teaching, in which teachers teach a cluster of classes, to provide extra security and the like. This means that courses are taught by a teacher who is not so qualified. Perhaps one more addition: 87% of the teachers at that school in Apeldoorn were qualified and 13% are in a training programme, so that is not all because of the measurement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u72	If they are in a training programme, I assume they are in a portal and are able to function again, so that is resolved. For the other part, the question remains whether it is up to the organisation or the choices of the school. Or does Mr Schalk want to accept lack of competence as a fact and say: let us not be so difficult about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u73	No, I certainly wouldn't want to propagate that last one. Of course, a qualified teacher is a very important figure within a school. But what I'm trying to argue is that power and ability can sometimes get mixed up. By being competent for a particular subject you do not immediately meet the competence requirements for another subject, even though you can be extremely competent. Those two elements are also very mixed up today. Mr. Chairman. Teachers are thus themselves responsible for the content of their profession and the competent authority must enable teachers to practice professionally. So far it's clear and clear. In order to achieve this, this law provides for four cases: registration, continuing training, recognition of control and a professional status. All this is primarily a matter for teachers themselves in relation to the competent authority. The fact remains, even after a series of questions have been answered, that teachers will soon be given their own responsibility, which can and will have absolutely also consequences for employment law. Quite simply: if teachers have established the skills requirements together and if registration is mandatory, then there comes a time when the register indicates whether or not a teacher meets those requirements. The bill and the legal history so far make it clear that there is a considerable problem in failing. In that case, there will be a note in the register "I know this will be done at the earliest in 2022" and it follows that the teacher in question should no longer be responsible for teaching from 2026 onwards. In short: this person should no longer be used for the class. There is then a vacuum: despite repeated urging in the written input, the government merely states that it considers it possible for collective bargaining parties to conclude that failure to meet the re-registration criteria is due to the fact that the employer cannot reasonably be required to continue the employment relationship. However, that is up to those parties and not the legislator. However, on the basis of his responsibility for the quality of education, the legislator may, as a condition of funding for competent authorities in particular education and as a rule for public education, state that appointed teachers must also be competent and that the failure to meet the re-registration criteria means that the teacher can no longer stand in front of the classroom. But what does this mean for the teacher in question, so I ask the Secretary of State. Can he be fired? Mrs Sent also asked for clarification on the legal relationship between the employer and the employee. If he can't be fired, what's he gonna do? And who's gonna pay for that? This is a question that I am asking the Secretary of State, of course, but which I am also addressing to Mr Bruijn. What does this mean for the competent authority? Is this or is it not allowed to fire this teacher? Who pays the transition fee in the event of dismissal? Or is it no longer applicable because the teacher has not adequately maintained his ability? I think this is a problem, because other speakers have already indicated that re-registration is not part of the Civil Code, so there can be no grounds for dismissal. Who pays the teacher who will have to stand in front of the class, because education needs to be given? The teacher who is no longer allowed to teach is still on the payroll and must be paid out of the allowances linked to the number of pupils on 1 April or 1 October. I'm sure the Secretary of State knows that better than I do. Why doesn't the Secretary of State come up with a clear line? Surely you cannot create a problem as a legislator and then put the questions about the solution on a collective bargaining table? In this context, there is another issue, which also weighs very heavily on the SGP and Christian Union groups. Apparently, the register is not only an issue between employer and employee, but also parents and students should be fully aware as users of the idea of transparency. Are we not putting the teacher at a great disadvantage, especially with regard to the most important thing the teacher should have in his profession and in his class, namely authority? After all, he is a teacher of authority. Suppose, due to unforeseen circumstances, he is unable to meet the required competence requirements for a period of time, and a pupil or his parents appeal to him. And that's really not imaginary, because according to the explanation parents and students get insight into three things. 1. Is the teacher qualified? 2. What authority does he apply for re-registration? 3. Is there a note that he doesn't meet the skill requirements? Unfortunately, I note that our society is less and less afraid of authority. If this element, which should be part of a conversation between the competent authority and the teacher, is on the streets, aren't we going to expose the authority of that teacher? That is an enormous weakening of the teacher's position. This is all the more pressing when we look at it in the broader context to which my colleague from the Christian Union Herman Sietsma, who has worked here for four months, has rightly pointed out, namely the exploration of the 'rich-wide occupational registration authority'. This concerns registration for more and more public professionals, such as police officers and tax officials. If the public can first check with a written ticket whether the agent in question is competent and therefore competent, then the gate of the dam is. Back to the teacher: the question whether or not someone is competent should be a matter for employer and employee? In answering the many questions on these aspects, I read that this is intended to be a quality instrument, not a settlement instrument. If that is the case, the legislator must ensure proper safeguards, legal safeguards and protection against improper use. The political groups of the SGP and the Christian Union are not yet convinced of this and are curious as to how the Secretary of State sees it. Finally, it is important to listen to the field. It is logical that the Teaching Co-operative would like to see the teacher register set up. It is striking that a number of trade unions are very positive about the phenomenon, but there are strong reservations about it from the outset. There is criticism of administrative burdens. There is talk of unworkability when schools begin to expand their offer in the context of Education2032, about mentors who have their own class for two subjects, one of which is not competent and about highly qualified teachers who will be qualified as incompetent or unauthorized for adjacent subjects. There is also the criticism that learning from each other within professional learning communities is not done justice, etc. The two-year time limit is also unrealistic when it comes to requiring three- or four-year training. Are these all fear stories or can the Secretary of State take away these concerns? The PO Council and the VO Council expressed serious doubts and called for the registration system to be embedded in the school context. They also warn of the administrative burden and of tension on the date of introduction. And like these two groups, they indicate that the consequences of labour law cannot be shaped by social partners as a consequence of non-reregistration, while the government continues to refer to it. How does the Secretary of State solve this dilemma? The most striking thing, of course, is that a large number of teachers apparently do not see much in it, given that in a short time more than 29,000 signatures have been collected against this form of teacher registration. How does the Secretary of State appreciate these signals? The members of the Christian Union's political groups and the SGP look forward to the answers of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u74	I have not heard Mr Schalk from the student's perspective. Doesn't the student have the right to a qualified and permanently competent teacher? Does the teacher register not make a very important contribution to this competence and competence of teachers, and thus to the future of our children?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u75	I think that's a wonderful question! If education is no longer about the children and the students, then we are really lost. I fully agree with Mrs Sent that students are entitled to the best master, the best teacher, the best teacher and the best teacher. The only question is whether this best teacher or teacher arises by putting this teacher register into operation. I can't quite put those two greats together yet. As in reply to Mr Ganzevoort's question, I also say to Mrs Sent: of course, it is primarily a question of high-quality teachers, preferably competent but above all competent. But whether or not to go through the register is my important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u76	Isn't the teacher's register a wonderful tool for keeping up with that ability, by which the profession itself indicates how the re-registration and validation takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u77	That may be a very good medium that helps, but it is now being imposed by a route that Mrs Sent's party is also questioning. Is the pace okay? Is a number of things well secured and settled? I can understand those questions very well. But even if those questions were answered positively, I still wonder if this is the right route. Or should we focus on ensuring that it is properly and carefully regulated within the school context for the benefit of children and pupils?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u78	Mr. Chairman. Those who read the articles about the teacher register are almost touched by all good intentions. It is about better recognising the professional space of the teacher and strengthening the quality of the teacher's profession by developing professional standards, and it is about a teacher's register in which teachers themselves have an important voice in determining the frameworks and criteria. My group fully shares these good intentions. We are discussing a bill on education almost every week this month, and I can only repeat how important education is as an investment in society of the future. A society increasingly determined by complexity and in which changes will be accelerated by the exponential growth of knowledge. Then you are not there with an iPad and Google, but it is increasingly important that we have teachers who can learn how to find their way in this rapidly changing world - full of information, disinformation and "alternative facts." My father, himself a teacher, sometimes said for a joke that a good teacher of almost everything knows almost everything, but that is not what we expect today, precisely because almost everything keeps changing. We do expect a teacher to be able to unlock rapidly changing areas of knowledge for students in an effective way that helps them to develop their skills and talents and thus take their place in society. This calls for a great deal, and that is why this debate is also a good time to express our appreciation for all those good teachers who are constantly helping young people to develop and who, for and with those young people, are building the bridge to knowledge, understanding and skills. That, as far as we are concerned, is precisely the good intention of this bill. For how can a teacher perform that complex role when she or he himself would not have enough time, space, opportunities and challenge to grow with and always be sufficiently up-to-date? If the world of students changes quickly, then the world of teachers also changes. And then it's not enough if you've successfully completed your education 5, 10, 20 or 35 years ago. In this sense, jurisdiction is a condition but not sufficient, and competence at present a is not always the same as competence. The profession of teacher requires continuous development and further training. And the teacher register enshrined in this legislative proposal is, above all, ensuring that continuous review is guaranteed and that teachers are given recognition for this much-needed renewal of their expertise. Competence and competence must therefore be the natural norm. That is why transparency is good, as I say to Mr Schalk of the SGP, who seems more afraid of losing authority when parents discover that a teacher is unauthorized, than that he would like to guarantee that authority with self-evident authority. That is where the authority should come from. That is almost entrapment, but I do not, as Mr Schalk has said, take that authority from above. I think this should be based on quality, competence and competence. So you would expect the government to have gained a lot of support in the field with its proposal. Instead, however, a petition was presented today to this Chamber, in which many teachers say: we are not necessarily opposed to this, but we do not want it to be imposed when there is no support, we do not want it to restrict our freedom of choice in professionalisation, and above all we do not want it to replace all the other things that are needed to improve education, such as smaller classes, fewer teaching hours and more competent teachers. And the sector councils say: good idea, but without support from teachers and without good embedding in school practice, we are not comfortable. That is why my group is asking the Secretary of State how he has managed to derail a plan, which everyone is in theory in favour of and where the voluntary variant of the teacher register is fairly widely embraced, in such a way that today it seems as if there is massive resistance to the whole proposal. Of course, there are other voices to be heard, including from the profession. That's how we got another petition today. But the many signatures under the petition do indicate that there is unrest. My question, a little more kindly put, is: what has the Secretary of State done to cash in on the broad support that exists in principle for a register which the professional group itself supports? How is it that all the government's words in the reply, for example, that this proposal is exactly what Teachers want in Action, are not recognized by the active teachers? I have heard earlier today that we do see that the concerns of Teachers in Action are largely covered in the plan, but apparently there has been a mismatch in communication. The question to the Secretary of State is what he's into. These questions are pressing for my group because they not only share the intentions, but also think that the proposal is pointing in the right direction. With the now introduced temporalisation at the time of introduction, we see every reason to continue along this path. But then the lack of support is a matter of concern. I would like a response from the government to the question of how the professional group is taken into account in its work so that the objections and the resistances disappear, perhaps even the objections and resistances and cold feet in this Chamber. My group sees the value of introducing a teacher register, but agrees with the protesting teachers that other things are really needed, including reducing the shortage of qualified teachers. Following the motion of the Dutch MPs Grashoff and Ypma to the Dutch parliament, the government has indicated that it will do its utmost to come up with a plan of action before 15 February 2017, specifically aimed at combating the shortage of teachers. In my agenda today is Valentine's Day, February 14th, and therefore the last day for that February 15th, the day on which my father, the teacher, is birthday. We would like to hear from the government what this plan of action will look like; if it is submitted tomorrow, it will be ready by now. What does the government do to address the shortage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-9.u79	I'm suspending the meeting for a short break.
