ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u1	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament and the staff for their presence. A special word of welcome to the people attending this debate in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. The pager goes; an address appears in the picture. The ambulance we were allowed to watch a shift with yesterday turns right around. We were actually on our way to the post to have a bite to eat, but the pager went and an address appeared in the picture. Now we're on our way to someone in need and need an ambulance. We have an address; that's all we know. We'll go there right away. We don't know if it's a resuscitation, a girl who fell off a horse or a somewhat older demented gentleman who has fallen in a bathtub and actually needs to find a place in a nursing home, but the ambulance is already on its way. This is the daily work practice of an ambulance staff. It is a very special profession, in which you must be able to deal with pressure and responsibilities, but above all, I think it is a very serviceable profession. Today we are talking about their future and concretely about the extension as well as the amendment of the Temporary Ambulance Act. I would like to talk today about that last amendment. The fact that the temporary law should be extended and, above all, that there should be final clarity soon will probably not contradict anyone here. We hear from ambulance workers and also from ambulance drivers that investments sometimes lag behind because that clarity is not there now. But something special is happening here today: with today's bill, an innocent extension, a law of two A4s, is being used to change the Temporary Ambulance Services Act properly. Not only is the definition of "ambulance nurse" changed by "ambulance care professional," but it also seems that opportunities could be created for the procurement of scheduled B transport. For those who do not know exactly what A- and B-transport is, I learned that yesterday, I say that A-transport is the real emergency transport and that B-transport is roughly the scheduled transport with an ambulance. The SP does not understand why the extension of a temporary law should be accompanied by such fundamental changes, even at a time when a new cabinet is still being discussed. That is why today we are tabling an amendment aimed at extending the Temporary Ambulance Services Act without amending it. We are concerned about the changes for a number of reasons. Over the past period, this cabinet has not tackled the marketing of care, but has encouraged it in our view. It is also quite difficult to identify one moment in the past when market forces were introduced into care. This often happens gradually, step by step. Let one thing be clear today: the SP sees absolutely nothing in market operation in our ambulance care. This kind of concern is so important, like the police and the fire department, that we believe it should be a task of the government at all times and to a full extent. The SP certainly does not want to run the risk that we would be able to open the door here today to introduce some form of market operation in our ambulance services to its present extent. My first question to the Secretary of State is therefore quite clear: can the Secretary of State guarantee this 100%? After all, we have seen the SiRM reports. Which, in our opinion, betrays a lot of this cabinet's plans. The Minister chose initially to examine only two scenarios with market forces and then also published a second SiRM report, in which SiRM advises not to see ambulance care as a public service. In our view, this paper reality is far from the reality of the ambulance staff. We, as SP, have carried out a major investigation among the paramedics. The result was crystal clear: three quarters of people see nothing at all in the market operation of ambulance services and even prefer it as a full public service. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore how he explains this difference in perception. The government reiterates that the extension of this law does not entail any substantive change in the organisation of ambulance services. However, I am reading something else when I look at the explanatory statement. For example, the government defines between noses and lips by what is exactly ambulance care. According to the government, the purpose of the temporary law is to limit ambulance care to cases where medically necessary assistance is provided by an ambulance care professional. If there is no medical need for guidance by a care professional, the doctor does not need to order an ambulance. This transport may therefore be carried out by other parties. Can the Secretary of State indicate exactly how we should interpret this? Is it impossible, for example, that foreign parties could interfere with this part of the ambulance care, which the government believes may no longer be an ambulance care provider? Is it also impossible that this part of the ambulance service, which the government believes may no longer be an ambulance service, will be able to follow calls for tenders? Which cabinet-appointed "other parties" could then register on this? When there is no medical need to have a patient escorted by a care professional, the government states that there is no need to call an ambulance. This could lead to an undesirable burden on the healthcare budget. What exactly does the Secretary of State mean by medically necessary assistance? So what kind of cases are we dealing with? How, according to the Secretary of State, is the distinction between medically necessary and non-medically necessary made exactly in advance? Isn't the planetary rides also about sick people? Then there can always be an unforeseen circumstance on the way. How does the Secretary of State view this? In the Netherlands, the planned care and emergency care are combined in ambulance care. This is good for several reasons. It now works that ambulances can do their more expensive services by doing those planned rides in between. That way, the ambulance will stop as little as possible. Can the Secretary of State confirm that the planned journeys are sometimes already being carried out by commercial parties? How does the health inspector supervise this? In Brussels, foreign healthcare providers are already lobbying heavily to gain access to the Dutch healthcare environment market. The foreign companies are lining up to get on the market here. We all know, I think, the failed experiment in Denmark. For the people who don't know this, I'll just mention it. The Danish Falck had the paramedics there. Then came the BIOS group. It took over ambulance transport in the southern part of Denmark. The Dutch company received a ten-year concession, but all kinds of problems followed. For example, Falck refused to transfer the staff and ambulance stations. The BIOS group eventually had to recruit staff in Germany and then work in Denmark. Well, a long story short: the whole business went bankrupt and eventually the Danish government had to intervene and take care of the ambulance in Denmark completely again. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore how he looks at this Danish example. Does he agree with the SP that it is therefore 100% undesirable that we should be dealing with foreign providers in Dutch ambulance services? What amazes the SP is the enormous lack of insight into the spending of the money in ambulance care. To our great surprise, the accounts of the ambulance regions did not appear to be standard public. Can we please put an end to this quickly, Secretary of State? The care is paid for in the Netherlands by all of us. It therefore seems logical to us that we should be able to monitor this and, therefore, the use of the money in ambulance services. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP? In preparing for this debate, we heard, for example, that there are ambulance regions where considerable profits are already being made, up to EUR 10 million last year. That message reached us. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP that the ambulance is no place to make a profit? Is the Secretary of State prepared to deal with this? Then maybe I'll come up with the most important thing: the paramedics. This group of about 5,000 people deserves an extra support in our opinion. And what does the Secretary of State do? With this extension and therefore amendment of the temporary law, we believe he contributes to the erosion of the function of ambulance nurse by replacing it with the vague concept of "ambulance care professional." No one knows what this means anymore. The Secretary of State promises to provide more clarity under ministerial regulations, but now no one knows what this means. That's why the SP doesn't want to go along with this. It seems like a simple definition change from ambulance nurse to ambulance care professional, but it's so much more. In the ambulance, for example, there is a fear of an influx of young people without experience and a deterioration in the quality of care that can then be provided. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to refrain from the erosion of the position of paramedics. In recent years too little has been done to make the function of ambulance nurse more attractive to new people. For example, there is competition with hospitals where you can earn more if possible. Also as a posting force you can earn more than as a regular force. The workload for ambulance nurses is high, as they often take the blows from cuts in healthcare in other places. For example, the cuts in care for the elderly and the closure of emergency services. In a way, therefore, you can say that the ambulance workers already have some of the cuts in other parts of the care to cope with. As I said earlier, I would like to take advantage of this debate today to safeguard the future of ambulance services. Frankly, the SP is no longer so confident that there will be a permanent law in 2020 supported by ambulance staff. That is why I ask the Secretary of State what explanation he gives of the long duration of this temporary law. I also ask him how he thinks he can ensure that the ambulance staff are fully involved in this. Mr. Chairman. My party has asked for it more often, but I do it again: is the Secretary of State willing to consider a public variant? Is he willing to put his ear to the paramedics instead of just the health insurance companies? If it's the SP's fault, ambulance services remain off the market, now and in the future. Today, as far as I am concerned, it should be a simple extension of the Temporary Ambulance Act, so without any changes. I therefore call on the Chamber to say no to the market in ambulance services once and for all today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u3	I see another interruption by Mrs Keijzer from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u4	I have a question for the SP Group. As for Mrs Marijnissen, this subject is new to me. I have read in and I understand that different scenarios are currently being examined. One of these scenarios is that the GGD and the GHOR are also such an abbreviation that are actually government-related organisations, the directors become in the ambulance care with a number of variants. Isn't that the variants where the market doesn't take over ambulance care? Doesn't that mean that research is currently being carried out into variants other than those of the privatisation of ambulance services?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u5	Clear. We're talking about the opposite. At the present time, scenarios are also being studied, even more so, in the first study only "in which the direction really falls into the hands of the health insurers and the market." That is a path that the SP does not want to go on; as far as it is concerned it does not need to be investigated. Everything else where it is in public hands, for example if it is in the sense of the security region, we find interesting options. We have had several discussions with the paramedics about this, because you can have different ideas about how to put it into practice. For now, for today's debate, we think we can see that the door is opening up for the possible introduction of market forces. We want to be assured in this debate today that this is not at all the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u6	Then I understand again what we are talking about today. I know that the SP does not want to move towards market forces in any way, but it is not the case that at the moment only those variants are being looked at. Then I would also have a problem, because I also want the possibility to invest the ambulance services public. That's under investigation right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u7	I now give the floor to Mr Rutte for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u8	Mrs Marijnissen says something that will surprise no one, namely that the SP is against market forces in healthcare and thus against market forces in ambulance services. At present we have a distribution with a few regions where a public ambulance operator works and we know regions where private ambulance carriers do their job. So these private ambulance carriers have to start worrying? They're nationalized if it's the SP's fault?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u9	I have to admit that I find the system quite complicated after looking into it. The Minister is willing to do the job, but that could be up to a public or a private organisation. We find that when we talk to people who work for a private RAV, sorry for the abbreviation "sorry," they say that, for example, there is a reduction in the training of staff, to name but a few. They notice, for example, that there is a reduction in investment in cars, because a private organisation will say: I wait a while, because I don't know how things are going right away; why should I invest in a car like this, I don't, because maybe I won't get the job next time. That is exactly what we do not want. So the answer to your question is: yes, we would prefer to see it all public.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u10	For the people at home, I report that RAV means Regional Ambulance Provision. Mr Rutte has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u11	This dossier is so linked to abbreviations, that I understand very well that Mrs Marijnissen is throwing one in. It's a good thing you're explaining that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u12	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u13	Well, I guess I'll get to the next point. So if it's the SP's fault, we need to nationalize the existing private healthcare providers in the ambulance care system. I have a very interesting case, namely that of the ambulance in Zeeland. That was public ambulance care that always didn't meet the response times. It just didn't work out. It was taken over by the White Cross, the provider in The Hague. Since then, response times have been reached. How are we supposed to explain that after Mrs Marijnissen's story, namely that audience would be very good and private? In this situation, it was a public service provider who could not do so. Then there was a private provider and since then it's just better. Wouldn't it be better to put ideology aside and just look at the quality of care? It has improved in Zeeland.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u14	As far as I am concerned, this is not necessarily an ideology debate at all. We look at the quality of care and we talk to the people who are now working for private and public providers. You mention the example Zeeland. Let that be just the example, I did not want to mention it by name, because I did not think it was very relevant for the debate, and we are getting all kinds of signals about the huge profits that have been made over the past year. You may call it ideological; fine, I don't care, but as a SP we find it totally undesirable that there should be only one euro profit on our ambulance care. That money should be spent on staff, on a decent arrangement for people who want to get out sooner or on new material. That's where the money's supposed to go, and that's not gonna happen there. So we're not for that; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u15	Mr Rutte, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u16	A public facility in Zeeland that did not comply with the standard has been replaced by a private facility that does, which gives people in Zeeland faster and better care. Now I have to conclude that the SP says that it is not allowed, because profits are being distributed. That's ideology over content, isn't it? Otherwise, I really don't get it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u17	Then why you don't understand, I'm not sure. As far as I'm concerned, ideology doesn't go beyond content here. As far as I'm concerned, it's about control. The moment you leave it to the market, to the private parties, you also give your control out of your hands in a certain way. Whether the emergency care of the fire department, the police or the ambulance is basically everything behind 112, we think that the government should guarantee good care and good safety when someone is in distress and calls for help. We don't think you should interfere with that in any way. That's different from when it doesn't go well in a specific case. That doesn't mean you're gonna have to turn the whole thing around, but you're gonna have to make sure it gets better there. Then you have to deal with that particular problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u18	I just wanted to get back to the care professionals. We also supported the amendment proposed in this law. We have tabled an amendment to ensure that, at least in the emergency ambulances, a qualified ambulance nurse comes. Is that a variant the SP could live with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u19	I have not yet looked very closely at your amendment. So I'll do that right away. I'm just in the emergency room. In our plea we made a strong point that we do not see much benefit in splitting up or separating that AB ride. Then there's B1 and B2, but now I'm all in the jargon. The point is that, according to the cabinet, there may not be a medical need for the transport to be carried out, and that there may be no medical need for the staff to work at a lower level. We all see this as a hollowing-out, piece by piece, of the important field of paramedics. In our view, that should be the case in its entirety. So I have to take a closer look at the amendment. We are in complete agreement with the spirit. We are absolutely not in favour of moving the term from ambulance nurse to ambulance professional.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u20	If a patient is transported from the hospital to a rehabilitation center without needing horns and bells, I can imagine that it's a shame to let a highly qualified paramedic come along when there's already a shortage. I imagine you'd choose another form and put another nurse or caregiver on that ambulance. With your proposal not to make all those changes you make that impossible. Then the pressure on the paramedics increases, while there's already a shortage. It's only for two years, and we have to see how it goes. That is why I ask you to support such a variant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u21	Actually, no. We do hear that there is a shortage of ambulance nurses, but then there will be calls ringing with us. Through the union we hear that there are actually enough, but that they can be hired as temporary workers or that they can be recruited. Because then you simply earn more. That makes sense, too. The salaries for ambulance nurses are very much behind the salaries in the hospital, for example. However, they are on that wagon. They take responsibility and have to make choices on their own, while in the hospital you can consult with a colleague and experience pressure then differently. I think there are plenty of ways to make the field of paramedics more attractive. This should certainly make it possible to resolve these deficits. We then see less or actually no salvation in disposing of certain parts of the ambulance service, or in setting up less qualified staff. We don't want paramedics to lose quality. We would like to think about how to make the profession of ambulance nurse more attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u22	We are going to extend this law until 2020. In that period, you don't get that result. Then we will be left with a shortage of highly qualified ambulance nurses with good qualifications until 2020. That's the problem. You can lift the numerus fixus and you can improve the training, but you can't do that in three years. That's the point. So we're left with a shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u23	I do not entirely agree with that. For example, people do not opt for ambulance care because they will not be able to get out sooner. You can do that with other services. I think you can deal with these problems relatively quickly. Temporary workers are also widely used. So that means that these people are there, but they don't opt for permanent employment. I have visited a number of posts in the last week. Everywhere you hear the same thing, namely that there is little flexibility in the roster: "If I let myself be hired, I'm the one who decides and then I choose it instead of a fixed contract." The result is holes in the grids. So I think there are quite a lot of solutions to be found to solve this problem quickly and adequately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u24	Thank you for your first-term input. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u25	Mr. Chairman. We have been following developments in ambulance care with the necessary care for years. We're seeing paramedics with patients snooping around hospitals. We see ambulances parked in the escape lane because the emergency rooms have no place. We're picking up ambulances with malfunctioning equipment, and we're seeing rising shortage of paramedics. A new law is therefore urgently needed. This bill is not about which direction this new law should go, with more or less market forces. We're only talking about the extension of the Temporary Ambulance Act. I've heard that a dying woman's husband has been denied an ambulance ride to the hospice by our biggest health care provider. So it will be clear that in our view the health insurance companies do not get to say it in ambulance care. That discussion will be held later. The PVV Group regrets that no concrete steps have been taken in recent years for a new law, but we do want to support the extension of the current law in itself. However, the Minister not only extends the current law until 2020, but also amends it. This should clarify the concept of "ambulance care" and clarify the distinction between emergency care and planned care. Of course there is a distinction between acute ambulance care and ordering an ambulance to transport someone to another location, but that distinction is not new or unknown. Why, then, is this change necessary now? What is the need for this? In fact, there has never been an evaluation of the ambulance law, so what is this amendment based on? I'd like an explanation from the Secretary of State. The amendment replaces the term "ambulance nurse" by "ambulance care professional." Have you thought this through? A healthcare professional does not need to be BIG registered and does not even need to be a nurse. I understand the desire to employ other staff on planned journeys, so-called sick transport, but this should never be at the expense of qualified staff in the acute care sector. I therefore have an amendment (34623), No. 10) to ensure that there is at least a BIG-registered ambulance nurse present in emergency ambulance care. This leaves the space open to deploy other qualified personnel in planning care. I believe that the amendment meets both those who are in favour and those who oppose it. I therefore hope for the support of my colleagues and the Secretary of State. Finally, during the next two years of the extension, I would like to ask for attention and monitoring of the equipment in the ambulances. Mrs Marijnissen has already spoken about this. It must not be the case that the lack of final legislation prevents the necessary investment and innovation in this sector. Can the Secretary of State promise that this will be extra enforced?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u26	Thank you, Mrs Gerbrands. That was a very quick input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u27	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for sending me the bill. Good, fast and adequate ambulance care is necessary to help people in an emergency in a timely manner and to transport people from A to B if they cannot move themselves for medical reasons. My group understands that more time is needed for the new regulation. GroenLinks therefore has no objections to the extension of the current temporary law. However, like the previous speakers, I do have a number of questions about the change that is being made at the same time, introducing the definition of ambulance care professional. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA has an amendment (34623), No. 8) in order to lay down the criteria for the term "ambulancecare professional" in an AMvB, so that the Chamber still has influence on them. I think that's the least we can do. I would like to hear more about this change from the Secretary of State before we agree to it. Why haven't we managed to work out the definition of ambulance care professional? What's the timetable like? When will the proposal be sent to the Chamber? How are parties and paramedics involved? And above all: what does this change mean for the current ambulance nurses? Will they continue to carry out scheduled transport? Does the profession remain attractive enough for them? More influx of highly qualified personnel is desirable. That's what we hear from the sector itself. A modified job description may help, but opening the doors wide to lower-skilled staff can lead to the removal of highly skilled staff from B transport, with all the undesirable consequences. Does the Secretary of State share this concern? Will the change affect staff in the scheduled transport, especially in the care offices, also known as the B2-ambulances? Could this change result in the disposal of all B2 transport to the market? Would the Secretary of State like to comment on the expected changes in ambulance care? In the autumn, the proposal for a new organisation will be presented. Can the Secretary of State tell us what the starting points are, in addition to the Wolbert motion (29247, No. 221)?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u28	Thank you very much, Mrs Ellemeet. With the agreement of the rest of the speakers, I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA. He's allowed to go first, because he's due at another meeting later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u29	Mr. Chairman. That's right. Thank you very much, and thank you to my fellow Members for allowing me to make my contribution now. Perhaps I will be on time to join in second term; otherwise I will follow the progress of this debate through the Acts. This debate is about paramedics. Previous speakers have already spoken about this. However, the key point, what the future ambulance care in the Netherlands looks like, is being pushed a long way for us. That is not what this debate is about. As far as the PvdA is concerned, there must be a great public direction, but that is not the point. It is about extending the current law and some amendments. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, good ambulance care is primarily timely care. You need to get to someone in need as soon as possible. Every minute counts. That's what standards are for. These standards must also be met in the region. They're under quite a lot of pressure. I'm asking the Secretary of State to go into that. How's this going for years to come? Is the ambulance also in Zeeland, East Groningen or North Frisian on time and is the standards met? The second thing that needs to provide a high-quality ambulance care is good staff. This was also the subject of a large part of previous speakers' contributions. I saw a number of amendments, tabled by Mrs Gerbrands, which I found good input in terms of content, and by Mrs Marijnissen, who goes a little further in her amendment. At the heart of the matter is the question of whether everyone can sit on the ambulance and whether we have sufficient guarantees, including as the House of Representatives, that there is a good, qualified staff. Is there still a distinction between a real emergency or a more regular ride, as far as possible on an ambulance? Would you be allowed to employ other personnel for that? In itself, however, the PvdA Group can discuss it for the PVV as well, as I understand just now, that you impose something different to planable rides on real emergency services. However, we do want to make sure that there are good staff. I have tabled an amendment on this point. Mrs Ellemeet has just spoken about this and she referred to it as a procedural amendment. She's right about that. We in the Chamber want to have a say in whether the standards are good. The PVV goes a little further, and I am also very pleased with this and ask whether we should set the standard now. That is what Mrs Gerbrands is doing with her amendment. She says that for the emergency services, for which you really need to be on the spot quickly, we should set the standard now. That's something I'd like to talk to you about. I'm also curious to see what the Secretary of State thinks about that. This is also more of a substantive discussion, because we want the same thing. This is a very important point. I haven't heard all the speakers in the Chamber yet, but if I count it a little bit, we as a Chamber want to keep a grip on that and not let it go completely. I have tabled an amendment on this, as has Mrs Gerbrands. I spoke to Mrs Keijzer for a moment about it, who had already thought about it. We'll hear about it later. We must work together to ensure that this is done properly. As far as I am concerned, this debate must lead to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u30	It is good that Mr Nijboer also refers to Mrs Gerbrands' amendment. That has a bit of the same intention, but has been set up in a slightly different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u31	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u32	I can imagine something about all of them. There are also other roads that lead to Rome. For me, however, there is an objection in Mr Nijboer's amendment. He chooses the heavy front. So if a fifth of the Second or the First Chamber would like the new standards to be enshrined in a law, this has to be done in a law. Is Mr Nijboer prepared to turn this into a lighter front, so that we in the Chamber really have an influence on how things are going to work out, who can do that and what it looks like, but do not have to wait for legislation or, if ideas and insights change, change a whole law first? It would then be possible to do so by General Measure of Management. We will then have a little more flexibility when it appears desirable in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u33	For the PvdA, the goal is paramount. I note, however, that this is the lightest amendment of this kind. It is a procedural amendment, whereas Mrs Gerbrands has already recorded it and Mrs Marijnissen goes even further. It does not really want all the changes to be made, but only this extension. In the face of amendments tabled, the PvdA Group is reasonably reluctant and offers room for this. I am, of course, looking for a majority, as you will understand, and I do not want us as a Chamber to be pushed completely aside either. So I have chosen for the heavier front for a reason and not for a very light one. But if colleagues all say that it is too heavy, that 20% is too little, and that it should be half of it, that is a good thing to talk about. It wasn't poured into concrete as long as we solve it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u34	Then I would like to inform Mr Nijboer that the objection of the VVD lies in the fact that the definition of the ambulance professional should always be regulated by law. This definition may change in the future due to new insights, as ambulance transport is still a field of development. I can imagine that as a Chamber we would like to have influence on this, so that things do not happen that the Chamber has not agreed to. A lighter front would perhaps be more appropriate. We achieve the same goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u35	The position of the VVD is clear. On average, on this file, it is a little further from us than parties on the left side of the Chamber. We'll see where we can find out. We want the Chamber to have influence. If ambulance nurses remain on the ambulances who can do their work urgently, in the region or in the city, the aim of this bill has been achieved for the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u36	I would like to thank Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. Maybe we'll see him later. I call Mrs Dijkstra of D66. Excuse me, I'm skipping someone. Mr. Rutte was first. I made a mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u37	Mr. Chairman. The good news is I don't need an ambulance. The bad news is I have a very bad cold. Let's hope we can find a good balance in that. As Mrs Marijnissen said, it is clear that today we would have preferred to have dealt with a final law on ambulance services. It's not ahead. The reason for this is that people in the field are really still looking for a good description of ambulance care and that the quality framework is not ready. We can grumbling about this for a long time, but the reality is that it would not be possible at the moment to come up with a solid final law. Well, I guess it's just a temporary law. For the VVD, the preservation of good care is paramount, in this law but also in the future. We cannot afford to lose the paramedics framework. That would happen if we didn't extend the law now. That's why we're now extending the Temporary Ambulance Services Act. I can tell that there are differences of opinion, including in the Chamber, about the future of paramedics. I think it is very good that we should discuss this in greater depth in the not too long term, preferably with a missionary cabinet. Then we really need to pre-order a final law. That is also why I do not want to go into too much about the content of this law at the moment. There will be a final law, on which we will have to have a wide-ranging exchange of views. That final law also applies to the VVD that the content of care is paramount and not ideology. When people say that the VVD by definition wants market forces, they are not right. If they say that the VVD by definition wants public services, they are also right. The point is that we are going to have an order that does justice to good care, so that people can count on it: fast, but also qualitatively as well as possible. The debate seems to focus somewhat on the unclearness surrounding the description of the ambulance professional. The VVD is keen to hear from the Secretary of State how he can include the Chamber in the definition of an ambulance professional. He could, for example, promise that we will be able to deliver content on this in a future general consultation on ambulance care: an ambulance professional must be able to do so, and that point may fall outside, et cetera. Another way is that we put it in the law by AMvB, General Measure of Governance. That was the proposal of the Labour Party. It could be. It does make us a little less flexible, but it might give us a little more certainty. We can also choose Mrs Gerbrands' route, excluding one category. The VVD isn't quite over it yet. I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State how he stands in this and how he intends to take the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u38	I have a question for Mr Rutte. I embrace his plea to speak to a missionary cabinet as soon as possible about the future of paramedics. If you look at the law, it's incredibly short. However, the explanatory memorandum does state that parties other than the present can do part of the B-ridts, i.e. planable rides. Then we are actually taking an advance on the big debate that you still want to have, Mr Rutte. Do you agree with me that we should not take that advance today, but that we should have that big debate later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u39	I think it is very important that we work with a real ambulance professional where it is necessary to design a ride, that that professional has time and space for that and that we reserve it for that. This applies to the acute part and it applies to a large part of the planned care. A judgment of the court in Den Bosch now requires that someone who, for example, is taken away from home for an oncological treatment to undergo a chemotherapy course should be transported in an ambulance. It is medically related transport, even though the person may feel fine for the rest and could have been transported by taxi in itself: that is not allowed at the moment. It is that kind of specific categories, which a doctor also says does not really require a care professional. I can support excluding that kind of transport. That's what the law says now. Anything that is heavier than that.............................................................................................................................................................. We agree with everyone who says that this is also necessary to achieve a good efficiency of journeys and to keep people trained, but that obligation to transport that one category with the ambulance, while there is no good reason whatsoever for doing so with this very expensive form of transport, which does not improve the customer and the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u40	I spoke to you because you started your argument with a procedural point, Mr Rutte. That is what I am addressing you to. You keep your treatise why you find what you find and use words like "real care" and "real ambulance nurses." I think that is already coming to the discussion, because I can argue with all kinds of things. That's our opinion. In that sense, my question is procedural. You are actually taking an advance payment, and you are basically recognizing this by calling a number of journeys that are still being made here 'no real care' in which no real ambulance nurse needs to be present. Do you recognise that today we are making a change and not just an extension? And that doesn't fit in a missionary period, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u41	If you extend a law and there's a judgment somewhere that you have to ask yourself is consistent with the interpretation you had in mind and you'll fix it, I can live with it. It's really about a little change. In that sense, I can support that, yes. If Mrs Marijnissen thinks that the exception to this very small category in the final law is really not possible, then we need to talk about it at that time. I see it mainly as a technical change.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u42	I'd like to go back to the care professional. Have I understood correctly to Mr Rutte that he would like to leave it to the Secretary of State and the Chamber to specify what a good ambulance nurse has to comply with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u43	No, I don't mean that, but as it stands in the law, it goes by ministerial arrangement. In principle, the Chamber has nothing to say about that. The Ministry makes a deal and that's it. I can imagine, also because there are concerns here, that we should have an exchange of views and see if this arrangement is good and if there has been sufficient participation. But what you say, Mrs Gerbrands, does touch exactly the sensitive point I see. I would not like to take that decision from the Chamber to the level of detail. We shouldn't do that. We must leave it to the professionals to agree on it, but I can imagine that there are parties who would at least want to give it their blessing before they let it go completely. I look for it through that balance, and I read your amendment along that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u44	I think you need to finish, Mr Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u45	Yeah, that's right. Let us be clear: care is paramount and we can support the extension of this temporary law. A further explanation of how the term "ambulance care professional" will be used. My final question is when we can expect a final law. Is that gonna work in two years? Indeed, if we have to extend it again, we will find ourselves in a very complex legal playing field. I'd also like to touch the downside of that. If it can be done more quickly, if it succeeds in coming up with a final law in one and a half years' time, can we trust that it will be implemented as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u46	Mr. Chairman. Ambulance care is indispensable. Everyone must be able to trust that an ambulance will be with him or her as soon as possible. In order to ensure the continuity of this concern, it is important that we extend the temporary law. Otherwise, we're gonna be in big trouble. The Secretary of State expects there to be a final law by 2020. He expects the results of various pilots and investigations this summer and this autumn. Also, following the Wolbert motion, an investigation is under way into the desirable scenarios in ambulance care. We have always been told that the results are expected in June. Today is May 23rd. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State or June still stands, because that's soon. We have already heard similar noises about an early conclusion, from the beginning of the investigations under the Temporary Ambulance Act, all of which have been delayed. The current temporary law would not be necessary for five years, but today we are again talking about an additional extension. As my group has said on many occasions, it is a missed chance that there is still no clarity for the field. We have already heard others talk about what that calls for at the moment: lack of investment in ambulances and so on. How does the Secretary of State ensure that there is clarity as soon as possible and that there is no need for further delay? I would like to hear that 2020 is realistic and feasible and what timetable the Secretary of State envisages. From the answer to the questions on the European legal consequences of the Temporary Ambulance Care Act, it is not clear whether this extension is proportionate and therefore without risk. The Minister stated in her reply that the longer the temporary law takes, the more risky it becomes in the light of European law. I'd like to be cleared up by the Secretary of State in a moment. I have a number of questions about the concerns raised by the Health Inspectorate regarding the enforcement of this law. The inspection made comments on the enforcement of the 15-minute standard. The time lost by calling the dispatcher is not included. Does the Secretary of State include these concerns in the Temporary Ambulance Services Act? The IGZ indicates that monitoring the 15 minute standard is difficult. We have also asked for this before. At that time, the Minister indicated that reasons for this may be waived. Then how can IGZ supervise? We would like clarification on this. Now that we are talking about ambulance services, I would like to broaden the discussion. I've been talking about the norm for a while. I am concerned about structural failure to meet the standard in many regions. In no less than 17 of the 24 regions, it has not been possible to arrive on time enough for years. I take it the Secretary of State doesn't think this is acceptable either. How are we going to change this? How will we ensure that there is a lasting improvement in this area over the next two years? In response to the questions asked by colleagues of the SP, after questioning Ambulancezorg Nederland, that there are no shortage of staff in ambulance care. How does the Secretary of State reconcile this with the conclusion of the NZa, which, in its report, states that the reason for exceeding the standard is in some cases due to a shortage of staff and equipment? We would like to have an explanation of this. Replying to what has been discussed here before, I am not going to repeat all of this about the ambulance professionals, I would also like to join Mr Rutte's questions on this. What exactly are we going to give to those health professionals in terms of substance? What are we supposed to do about that? Let me take a closer look at which amendments we support or do not support. In any case, we are in favour of a slight veil. We are looking at that further. Furthermore, it appears that ambulances are too often unneeded to pull out. The Minister states that if scheduled transport is not medically necessary, transport is not considered as ambulance services. But in practice this transport is provided by ambulances. I have the impression that the Secretary of State feels that others should be able to take care of these B-rides. Moreover, I am confusing the Minister and the Secretary of State here, because the Minister of course gave the answers and drew up the note on the basis of the report. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he thinks he's taking care of B-ritten by others.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u47	The Secretary of State is from many markets, so I understand the confusion, Mrs. Dijkstra. Thank you. I call Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u48	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here today with a double feeling. In fact, the CDA would have preferred the Minister to have put forward a proposal on time for a final order of ambulance services. Above all, we find it annoying that the lack of a final choice leads to unrest and uncertainty among all those nurses, drivers and dispatchers in the ambulance sector. At the same time, we see that an extension of the temporary law is necessary, given that there is no proposal and given that the temporary law expires at the end of this year, there would no longer be a legal framework for ambulance care from January 2018. As far as my group is concerned, there are two main questions on the table today. Is it enough to extend the temporary law by two years? And what is the division of labour of the people on the ambulances in the future? When choosing the deadline for renewal in the legislative proposal we are discussing today, the dilemma is that it should not be too short on the one hand, because a new cabinet may not have enough time to make a final choice and come up with its own legislative proposal on the other. On the other hand, however, the time limit should not be too long, which would mean that the unrest and uncertainty would continue indefinitely. The temporary law will be extended for two years in the Minister's proposal, which will require a definitive organisation of the ambulance sector by 2020. That deadline means that a choice has to be made this year. The Council of State raises the question of whether this is realistic. That is why I am asking a number of factual questions first. Is the government now sure that the quality framework for emergency care will be ready by this spring at the latest? Mrs Dijkstra said today is 23 May. Spring is coming to an end. You'll definitely feel the temperature when you go out right now. In the written reply, the government writes that the quality framework would be offered to the Zorginstituut in April. However, it is now stated on the website of the Zorginstituut that it is expected that the quality framework will not be delivered until 1 July. This process has been ongoing since 2015 and has been delayed several times. So the question is whether there is any further delay to be expected. What is the image of the government in this? In the written legal process, we asked for a timeline for working towards a definitive regulation, including the time-limit between the adoption of the new law and the entry into force of that new regulation in practice. To our question, the government answers that it is not possible to make statements about this. So the fact that this spring the Dutch Health Institute should have come up with a quality framework for emergency care, and that this has not yet been achieved, calls into question the statement that a final choice can be made this autumn. Does the government recognise that not giving a timeline requested by us does not make it clear whether an extension of two years is sufficient, as the Council of State has already pointed out? My group wants to avoid the need for a decision under steam and boiling water in and after the summer, which should be taken with particular care, also in view of the subject of acute emergency care. I am prepared to make an amendment to extend the deadline to three years so that we can consider carefully what order we should come to in the interests of good ambulance care. In answering the written questions, the government seems to assume that the final choice can be made by the new cabinet as soon as the quality framework and the results of the pilots on the multi-take are available. But isn't it at least as important that the investigation into the various scenarios following the Wolbert motion be completed? When will the Court receive the results of that investigation? Can the Secretary of State also state why the FNV has now left the guidance group in this investigation? The national attorney has been asked for advice on how long a proportionate temporary order can last. In the answers to the written questions, the government states that this opinion is in line with the government's view that a further five-year extension is too risky. But what about an extension of, for example, three or maybe four years? Why should this risk not apply in the case of an extension of two years? Where is the limit before there is too high a risk of party claims and action by the European Commission? Ambulance care is a form of care that should not necessarily be performed under private law and at European level. Existing licence holders will have the certainty of a two-year contract with this bill. To our question in the written round whether this short-term does not have the additional risk that necessary investments will not be made, the government has not responded. Can the government deal with this after all? The only real change in the content of this bill is the introduction of the definition of "ambulance care professional." The term "ambulance nurse" is thus deleted from the law. The question is, however, what kind of problem is it going to solve? The current ambulance service is provided by highly trained and experienced nurses, nursing specialists and ambulance drivers. In the current situation, an ambulance nurse is someone who has completed at least one specialist further training after a nurse's training. As a result, he has many years of experience in the various specialist nursing departments within a hospital. Does the Secretary of State acknowledge that the ambulance nurse is a profession requiring specific nursing expertise? The introduction of the term "ambulance care professional" could involve lower-educated staff. Why is this possibility being created? Does the shortage of nurses play a role in this? And what can the person with an education called Bachelor's Medical Care contribute to this? Is it true that this person has months of practical experience after taking up his job? I've had a lot of e-mails from paramedics. They attach the title "Ambulance Nursing." That alone should be a reason to see if we can secure that title in the law. There are currently two amendments, one by Mr Nijboer from the PvdA Group and one by Mr Gerbrands from the PVV Group. Is it not wise to include in the law that "ambulance care professional" also means "ambulance nurse"? You can then specify in further regulations, whether or not in a General Measure of Management, at which times a person needs training for the care that needs to be given. On this point, too, I am thinking about an amendment, but it would be much nicer if we were to do something about it in Chambers because we have raised this issue with each other and we also feel for what is being brought forward by the ambulance nurses. Experiments are also being carried out with the psycholance, in which it becomes clear at first glance that other training is necessary. How does the Secretary of State view that? How many of these are in the Netherlands now? Speaking of a shortage of nurses, what about the EUR 10 million extra investment for the training of ambulance nurses? Have concrete agreements been made on this subject within all Regional Ambulance Facilities and the various Regional Overlays Acute Healthcare Chain? The description of the ambulance care professional is later followed by ministerial arrangement. In what way are the nurses themselves involved? Is the content of the scheme now known? What training requirements are required of ambulance care professionals or nurses? Are drivers also included in the definition of ambulance care professional? As a result, I have a question about Mr Marijnissen's amendment from the SP Group. It proposes that this part of the law be completely deleted. It considered that, by including the ambulance professional in the law, ambulance services would be limited to medically necessary assistance without being clear what this meant. This can create a dividing line between planned medical transport (so-called "B" journeys) and actual emergency transport (A) journeys. It takes the view that this is anticipating the final planning of ambulance services. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if this is true. In the explanatory memorandum, ambulance care is precisely defined as a simple product of emergency and planned mobile care. I have one more question about the standard that ambulances should be on the spot within at least 95% of the emergency journeys within 15 minutes of taking the notification. As many as 70% of the regions do not meet this standard. Last year, the Healthcare Authority concluded that healthcare insurers are not yet sufficiently aware of the fact that ambulance response times are part of their duty of care. What about the improvement plans that health insurance companies had to draw up? What causes of exceedances have been identified? What actions have been taken to improve this? Will the House of Representatives receive a report on the progress of these actions and their effects? Article 7 of the Temporary Ambulance Scheme states that a Regional Ambulance Provision, in consultation with the health insurance companies in the region, may deviate from that 15-minute standard. This sounds very legal, but this is of the utmost importance to the people concerned. "Do I get the care I need in time?" The Healthcare Authority has indicated that this scheme, which was introduced in 2013, was a transitional provision and is therefore not now intended as a space for healthcare insurers to agree that response times may be longer than the standards. In response to written questions from my colleague Hanke Bruins Slot last year, the Minister indicated that she shares that view. Does this mean that it is possible to remove the reasons for the derogation from the normal time limits from the scheme? I come to my last but certainly not the least question; I was just wondering. Isn't it strange that municipalities aren't part of the Regional Consultation Acute Care Chain? Their inhabitants are also affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u49	Thank you, Mrs Keijzer. We're gonna suspend for about ten minutes. This means that we will be back here by 4.50 p.m. so that the Secretary of State can answer the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u50	I would like to give the floor to Secretary of State Van Rijn to answer the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u51	Mr. Chairman. We're here to discuss the extension of the current Temporary Ambulance Act. The law states who is responsible for the delivery of ambulance services in the region, the situation of the emergency room and the need for triage by a nurse. Let me begin by declaring that we can be proud of the paramedics in our country for good reason. Recently, we were able to read in the newspaper the average number of ambulance services: it's somewhere near a 9. I think that this is the merit of not only the ambulance service, but above all of all the very involved staff and staff who work in the ambulance service and who with heart and soul and at night and care ensure that ambulance services in the Netherlands are a reliable part of our care. Recent research by the NIVEL has shown that clients are very satisfied with the transport, treatment, handling, communication and, not to mention, the dispatch centre and the dispatch centre. Those paramedics should be able to do their job in a well-organized system. With this bill, the government proposes to maintain the current system for another two years. That is to prevent it from ending on 1 January. After all, we still have the good staff, but the framework is no longer there, and that would create uncertainty, because it is no longer clear how the emergency room is manned, whether nurses should do the triage, what about those fifteen minutes and how, for example, ambulance services can be given to taxi companies when this law is no longer there. We don't want any of that. Then why the two-year extension? Questions have been asked about that. The written exchange of views has already written about it. On the one hand, we want to take the time to ensure a good new structural law on the organisation of ambulance services. On the other hand, we do not want the current temporary situation to last too long. There is also a European legal aspect to this, which I shall return to. I think that the contribution made by Mrs Marijnissen and others has made it clear that this future order is not just a matter of regulation. There is a difference of opinion. Research is also ongoing. This summer, all the information will be available that can help us reach a final judgment on what the direction of the organization might be. This information concerns, firstly, the quality framework that will provide an insight into the context of acute care and, secondly, the results of the pilot on the multi-take in the control room. They will provide better insight into the division of tasks in the dispatch room between ambulance, police and fire department. Thirdly, I would like to mention the research that received the most attention, namely the SiRM Office's investigation, which is investigating nine variants on behalf of the Minister, and not two, and which is looking at a large number of aspects. The results of this investigation will be sent to the Chamber in June. This is in response to questions that have already been asked. On this basis, I assume that the new cabinet will be able to make a good and careful assessment of the future organisation of 2020. It is a matter of principle, and I agree with Mrs Marijnissen. On the one hand, it is a fundamental choice and on the other hand it is a very practical choice. "Principal" is the order: do you want heavy public control or not? In addition, there is the discussion about the ambulance staff. I think it would be wise to have that discussion with the new cabinet. There are many arguments to be put forward why it is precisely in the ambulance that heavy public control is needed. If there is a monopoly, you get a discussion about money, for example; in fact, a bit of the example that Mrs Marijnissen gave, albeit in a different sense. If there are few incentives to work effectively, you have to come up with other things to get it done. However, we must strike a balance between the need for public control and, on the other hand, efficiency and good care. If you're not doing it right, you should have a little bit of a problem with that. Those two elements, which take no longer than necessary to create clarity on the one hand and take sufficient time on the other, put us a little before the dilemma Mrs Keijzer mentioned: is it enough for two years? We need to balance a little bit at that point. You can't cut it with scissors. We think it might be possible in those two years, but then everything has to be a little bit lucky. Mrs Keijzer asked in her speech whether everything was in order, because there are, of course, signs of retardation. I would not like to make a general statement on this. I understand that Mrs Keijzer is asking whether it would be better to think about whether you should take a little more time to make the new cabinet even more able to do that. I thought she would consider an amendment on this point, but I can imagine. I told you, we have now chosen two years to make speed and to ensure clarity. There are some risks in time. I can therefore imagine that the Chamber would like to state in advance that it should be perhaps three years or something like 'two years, unless'. I await Mrs Keijzer's amendment on that point. Indeed, the bill also amends the term "ambulance nurse" in the term "ambulance care professional." It is not the government's intention to make a change in current practice. The aim is precisely to consolidate the current practice, which has gradually grown somewhat. As is currently the case, an ambulance nurse with all the necessary training and experience will have to provide the complex care. At the present time there are also in practice care officers who also carry out other work. Lower regulation, in the proposal in the ministerial regime, will define the requirements that ambulance care professional will have to meet as far as the government is concerned. This is actually a bit of a reaction to the point raised by Mrs Gerbrands. She can imagine that not all the work is the same and that on the one hand you want to retain the expertise and expertise of the ambulance nurse for the complex issues and on the other hand there is another work for which you could also employ other people. We are indeed dealing with a tight labour market. Of course, that should not be the argument, but it is wise to not only train, make the work attractive and ensure the availability of more ambulance staff in the meantime, but also to ensure that you can continue to provide good ambulance care through a proper distribution of the work. I therefore support the arguments put forward by Mrs Gerbrands on this point. We have said: would it not be wise for us to work out what requirements that ambulance professional should meet? I would like to do this together with the professional group, so that, if you come to those different subjects, we will, on the one hand, ensure that the subject, the knowledge and the skills of the ambulance nurse are not affected even more: rather, we will be strengthened and, on the other hand, we will also allow other subjects to be added. We have to describe that very well. I would also point out that it is pointed out from the industry but also from the inspection that you should pay attention to the term 'ambulance care nurse', because ambulance care is a broad field. Of course, there is also a difference of care. There are now pilots with the bachelors medical workers, the basic doctors and the physician assistants. Ambulance services are also developing themselves; Mr Rutte gave an example of this. So we might say in a while that we need to define better that the use of different types of expertise is necessary and possible. I understand from the contributions of several members of the Chamber that they want to remain strongly involved in the definition of the care professional, because they want to ensure that there is no displacement. I can imagine. In all the amendments, I would have a slight preference for the amendment to the effect that we are working on it and submit it to the Chamber, and that we agree on a veil or a follow-up. Mr Rutte asked if it would be so difficult. I'd like to leave that to the Chamber. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to describe the ambulance professional more broadly so that several functions are possible, but it would like to be involved in exactly how that works and what requirements are imposed on it. Perhaps the Chamber would agree with that. Then Mrs Gerbrands's point could also be raised. She said she already knows the difference between urgency and non-emergency, but I would like to ask her for space to see if that can be wider. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to be involved and be able to see this in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u52	Mrs Ellemeet, do you have a question about job description and differentiation? I see that's the case. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u53	It is good to hear the Secretary of State say that we must work this out in good consultation. He indicated: what we want with that term is to facilitate the current practice, because we are now breaking down the situation. That's what I hear back from the field. It is indicated that the requirements for highly qualified staff are so strict that it is very difficult to recruit new highly qualified staff. I would also like to comment on the position of the highly skilled staff, because this is not only a factor in A transport but also in B transport. That's a workable formula for the highly skilled. If you just let these people play a role in A-transport, it would provide such an unattractive outlook for them that there is a danger that perhaps a large part of the staff will say: I'm going to find it somewhere else or I'd rather go to a hospital instead of insecure industry. Does the Secretary of State want to ensure that there is room for the use of highly skilled staff in B transport? We should not get the situation that B-transport would only be filled with lower-skilled personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u54	That is something we must take care of. This whole operation has no explicit intention of achieving such displacement effects. In fact, the extra money that we have put at our disposal, and I will come to that, is for the training of new ambulance nurses. We're going to see if we can further strengthen that field. So we should not ensure that this becomes an extension of the profession. In fact, we may need to strengthen it. We need all the staff, but, as Mrs Gerbrands says, job differentiation is conceivable. Not all work is equally difficult. So you could consider whether other types of courses or expertise should be made possible. You have to define strictly that we are looking at what it is like in advance, but it is not intended to change the field of ambulance nurses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u55	If I understand the Secretary of State correctly, he says that task differentiation is possible. That's right. At the same time, we must also look very critically at the development of ideas in practice. It should never be the case that in practice this leads to a less attractive position for the highly skilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u56	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u57	The purpose of my amendment is precisely to protect the paramedics. It's to protect their professionalism. It doesn't matter if it's the A or B rides. This is precisely for protection, so that their tasks are not taken over by people with lower education. That's what's being done. As it stands, we're getting a lot of care professionals. If we have deficits in the rush journeys, to mention them, we can also use lower-skilled staff. The purpose of the amendment is precisely to provide for the ambulance staff who did that training, and also for the quality of patient care. There should be no driving with lower-skilled personnel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u58	I know Mrs Gerbrands' argument. It wants a distinction to be made between urgency and not urgency. She thinks that's the best distinction. What I would like and what I'm asking for a little space for is this. There are a number of experiments with different subjects, such as the primary doctor and the Bachelor's degree in Physician Assistant. We must look at what it means that urgency versus urgency is not the relevant distinction. Because then we're actually done, but maybe you can also make other choices. I would like to take Mrs Gerbrands' suggestion into account when drafting the ministerial regulation. Indeed, I have already offered that it will be discussed with the Chamber in a heavy veil. Actually, there's not that much difference. Mrs Gerbrands says: I already know. And I say that this could be a very relevant distinction, but perhaps there are other possibilities that we could consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u59	It's more like it's "at least," so at least there's a high-educated ambulance nurse in the emergency care system. Mine too. One does not exclude the other as far as I am concerned with this amendment. The fact is that this will run until 2020. This is under the law that expires in 2020. I therefore believe that this amendment does not stand in the way of pilots or other routes, because they are all still in the pilot phase. These will be taken into account in the final act in 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u60	You used the term "at least." Perhaps it is a nice bridge between the two amendments. You say it must be at least this. At the same time, we are making an arrangement that is still going to the Chamber. Then you can see if there's anything else. So that could be the bridge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u61	I have an additional question about the term "ambulance care professional." First of all, I note that we are talking about changes to the law as it was. I therefore believe that speaking of an extension is not correct. The Secretary of State mentions a number of pilots, including the Bachelor's variant for medical aid. We are very afraid of a slippery slope. We attach the term "ambulance nurse," not only because the ambulance nurses think it is important to hold on to that term, but also because they experience a very high workload. We asked how the car was doing with those people with less experience. The workload for those who do have experience and training for it is only increasing. So it's not gonna be any less. The answer that we cannot find enough well-educated ambulance nurses and that we are therefore going to differentiate and, frankly, settle for something else, is simply not the right answer to the high workload that the staff are experiencing right now. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u62	I don't want to answer that either. We have a labour market issue. So we have to make sure that the work is attractive, remains and becomes. We must ensure that there are sufficient training. However, some flexibility in function differentiation for the use of people can also help. We do not say that the difficult work can be done by others. In addition to the difficult work, however, there is also other work. In it one can strengthen one another. So that's what I'm trying to do. Exactly what paramedics are, we're gonna work out. They'll be paramedics, but maybe others, too. We must clearly define what one should or should not do, also in order to prevent staff who are not qualified or not qualified from being deployed in places where this is not the intention. So we have to include that in a ministerial arrangement or AMvB. Almost automatically I now come to the questions about training and the labour market. I have already said that there is increasing pressure. A sustainable and strategic human resources policy is incredibly necessary. The influx of new ambulance nurses has not kept pace in some regions with the increase in the number of ambulances. That has to do with the ageing society. Older people's care makes different demands. There is an increasing level of care gravity and peak loads. There are several variants to deal with this. I told you, you can train more and broaden the influx possibilities. I've already mentioned the pilots. In addition, you see more and more regional cooperation with chain partners. The hospitals' trade associations, the NFU (Netherlands Federation of University Medical Centres) and the umc's have asked to involve the regional ambulance facilities in their regional training plan. This is how things are viewed in a wider area. The Minister of VWS has made 10 million extra available for the training of new ambulance nurses in 2017. I can't tell you what the outcome of that is yet. The agreements, the contracting, are now in the making or are already active. There is an availability contribution for intensive care nurse and emergency nurse training. These can be considered as the most important pre-training courses for the training of paramedics. So we have to do and-and. We need to look at task differentiation. We need to figure out how to make the job more attractive. We need to see how we can strengthen the training. All this must be aimed at strengthening the trade rather than weakening it. The ambulance care, of which we cherish the quality, runs on very expert and involved people who, I repeat, do their job with heart and soul. They should be able to keep doing that. I now come to a number of specific questions. Mrs Marijnissen asked whether the law would create a possibility for B-transport, planned transport, to be used. The answer to that is no. The legislative proposal merely clarifies the distinction. In the event of a medical need, there is ambulance care. Procurement is not on the agenda. This clarification does not lead to a further extension of the tendering procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u63	That's good news, as far as we're concerned. I have a supplementary question: how should we interpret the text of the explanatory statement? It says: "When the Twaz is created, however, it is intended to limit ambulance care to cases where medically necessary assistance is provided by an ambulance care professional"; there it is again. It says a little further: "Other forms of patient transport are not covered and can therefore be carried out by other parties." How are we supposed to interpret this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u64	The intention of the Temporary Law ambulance care is, was and has always been that it is about medically necessary transport. A while ago, the judge gave a ruling on how to look at this: if there is no medical necessity at all, when it comes to transport, you should also employ medical staff. That would be very annoying for, among other things, the staff. That is why we have said in this legislative proposal: let us clarify this point now. So this is not a change, but a clarification of the intention of the law, as it has always been. Medically necessary transport, whether A or B transport, is covered by ambulance services. This is not about someone who comes back from the hospital by taxi with a bleeding finger; with a Band-Aid on it, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u65	But is it correct that the terms "medically necessary" and "medically unnecessary" are new? The Secretary of State argues that this is a long time ago and that there is nothing new under the sun, but for us those terms are new.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u66	It's a new term that clarifies the meaning of the law. Following that ruling by the judge, it has been said that we must make that point clearer, otherwise it would seem as if you would also have to employ medical staff for ordinary transport journeys, and that is not the intention. That was not the intention of the old law, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u67	I have one final question. We are told by the people who work in the ambulance that the distinction between medically necessary and medically not necessarily is not as easy to make in advance as we make it here in a theoretical conversation. How exactly does the Secretary of State intend to ensure that this consideration is made in advance? We can go back and forth, although it doesn't seem useful, with all kinds of cases, from people who have to go to the hospital for cancer treatment to people who sit in the taxi with a bleeding finger, but when a doctor orders an ambulance, I think it's up to the trained medical professionals to decide whether it's necessary or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u68	That's how it is and that's how it stays. Mr. Chairman. I have already spoken about the SiRM report. Mrs Marijnissen said that there is a difference between the SiRM report and the SP survey. I think the SP survey shows how some people feel about the order. Therefore, it is good that there is a broad SiRM report, in which we can see the advantages and disadvantages of all variants. Then it will undoubtedly appear that there are preferences very similar to those of the SP. How do we ensure that good choices are made for the organisation? I am almost tempted to say: by choosing some parties in the cabinet and others not. This really needs to be left to the new cabinet. I almost wanted to add "fear me," but I won't say that. This also applies to Mrs Marijnissen's question: can the Secretary of State guarantee that there will be no market forces? This Secretary of State can't guarantee that. That's a little related to the answer I just gave. I note, moreover, that the need for a great deal of public guidance is being seen very widely, including in the Chamber. Let me try to formulate it neutrally in the field of ambulance services. That is not just a choice; it is very important to ensure that ambulance services cannot be left to the whims of the market. I assume that the new cabinet will also involve these kinds of considerations seriously in its choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u69	I hear the Secretary of State say that he cannot guarantee that there will be no market forces. As a result, I had asked another question. We were just talking about journeys that the Secretary of State said shouldn't actually have an ambulance on, although that's what's happening now; let's just say that. Does this mean that, for example, foreign parties could play a role in these journeys?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u70	I'm not for that. This means that the choice of organisation and control must also involve the demand for the desirability of new parties in that market. It seems to me that if I look to the future, but you are now evoking me more of a personal opinion that you should look very closely at the steering mechanism to see if you allow parties who are able to provide good ambulance care with knowledge and skills of Dutch health care and not just for profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u71	Our fear is, of course, that we are on a slippery slope. That's what I just said. We are now releasing part, albeit a small part, of what is now ambulance care. We come to a new definition. You just told me. You say, however, that you cannot give guarantees for that part that there will be no market forces. You say you're not in favour of it, but you can't give those guarantees. Do you not understand that we really think that we are coming to a slippery slope today and are discussing a huge change of substance here and not just a formal temporary extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u72	No, I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u73	Secretary of State and Mrs Marijnissen, for the record, you are both polite, but we are still speaking here through the President. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u74	No, Mr President, because it is already the case and it has always been the case that medically necessary care, whether urgent or planned, is ambulance care. It's gonna stay that way. The question about the organization, what degree of public direction you allow, is a question for the new cabinet. I have answered a number of questions. Then there is the question of how we will involve employees in the support for a new legislative proposal. In recent years there have been many discussions on the future organisation of ambulance services, both with professional organisations and with staff, with V&VN, National Platform Works Councils, FNV and CNV. The various variants are now also being developed by the SiRM agency. A guidance group has been set up with all parties involved, including the Patient Federation Netherlands, CNV, V&VN and National Platform. The VNG has participated, but has withdrawn. I hope that she will be able to join us in drawing up the new proposal. I would be in favour of that. The answer is: yes, we are going to involve staff in the drafting of the new proposal. I assume the new cabinet will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u75	A quick question. The Secretary of State said the VNG has withdrawn. I think he means the FNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u76	Yeah, sorry. The FNV
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u77	FNV. Does he have any idea why? We are getting signals that she has also landed in a funnel and that is why she has said that she is no longer participating. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u78	I can imagine that the FNV has other ideas about the organization and does not want other variants to be selected. I do not want and cannot take part in the assessment made by the FNV on this point. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the expenditure of the ambulance services and the question of whether I also think that uncertainty about revenue and expenditure would not be desirable. Already ambulance services based on the current BW are obliged to deposit their annual accounts in the Trade Register. All accounts are therefore public. The Healthcare Authority also receives the annual accounts of the ambulance services and checks that the expenditure they declare is consistent with the amounts they declare in the context of the post-calculation. There is therefore sufficient transparency in this respect. I come to Mrs Gerbrands' remaining questions. Many of her questions have already been answered. She specifically asked whether sufficient investment was being made pending the final planning. It is and remains the case that the RAVs, the Regional Ambulance Facilities, are legally responsible for providing good care, even if it requires investment. In addition, health insurers have a duty of care. This leads to the need for health insurers and the RAVs to ensure that it stays in order. I have no signals and no reason to doubt the RAVs' willingness to continue to make sufficient investments, if necessary, in order to provide proper care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u79	Are you done with this point? Mrs. Gerbrands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u80	That is good to hear, but now the point is again that Mrs Keijzer is going to table an amendment. Then maybe we'll extend three years instead of two years. Who knows what's gonna happen next? I mean, of course, this only increases uncertainty. Why would the RAVs invest in experts and new stuff when they don't even know if they're delivering the care they're delivering in 2021? If the inspection comes in, it's too late. So my question is how to prevent that from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u81	By making sure that the health insurance companies take their duty of care so seriously that the quality of ambulance care is guaranteed. If that requires investment, so must we. The NZa is watching that again. By the way, the NZa also sees in the current situation, in this way we come to talk about the improvement plans, ensuring that the health insurers and the RAVs provide adequate quality care. Mrs. Gerbrands is right. If there is uncertainty about the future, it is always annoying to do so. I'd rather have it as soon as possible. If it comes to those three years, I wouldn't want to say, well, then it's going to be three years. I insist that we want to do it as soon as possible, but that is really up to the new cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u82	Well, that's not up to the new cabinet, but to the Chamber. If we vote in favour of the amendment, it will, of course, be three years from now. Then there'll be parties reclining again. We see that in everything that is postponed or extended. However, my group is concerned that it is going to stand still again and that this will be at the expense of the quality of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u83	We share the need to make quick choices and to see how we are going to shape the organisation. Mr Rutte wondered how the Chamber was included in the definition of the ambulance professional. I have said all that I need to say. I can follow Mr Rutte in his statement that it is good if the Chamber is involved in the consideration and that it is good if it is not a ministerial arrangement but an AMvB, and that this is a very heavy variant. Mr Rutte has a point. I am a little hesitant to say that, because the Chamber has to decide which intervention it wishes to make. The government is prepared to involve the Chamber in accordance with the proposal. I could also live with a heavy front, so that the Chamber at the front is involved in the choices that are made and not at the back. That is, of course, up to the Chamber when it comes to assessing the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u84	The amendment is not from me, but from Mr Nijboer's. Mr Nijboer suggested that if one-fifth of one of the two chambers wanted this to be regulated in legislation, it would no longer be possible to do so under AMvB but under legislation. Can the Secretary of State give his opinion on what this would mean for future flexibility to make any changes that might be required in the care sector? This is separate from the fact that I think we agree that the Chamber should be involved. It is very nice that this has been promised, but what would it mean if it were to take the form of legislation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u85	It gives less flexibility and it takes more time. In that sense, Mr Rutte is right. With a heavy afterhang and a bill requiring you to make a law to make changes to it, flexibility disappears and you need more time. In itself, that's a shame. We have already discussed the decision-making process. The idea is that a new law could enter into force on 1 January 2020. This indeed requires a fairly rapid decision-making process by a new cabinet and an early examination of the new legislative proposal. That is also why we cannot fully plan the timetable. We can say when we get the stuff and when we want to come up with a proposal, but with every statement I make about when the new cabinet would like to make a choice, I'm on ice that I'm not sure it's there. I am therefore somewhat reluctant to do so. I have already spoken about Mrs Keijzer's thoughts on the amendment. The same applies to Mrs Ellemeet's questions about the timetable and the ministerial arrangement. I say again explicitly to her that scheduled transport is not being disposed of to the market. That's not in the bill, and it's not intended. Planning care is also just paramedic care. Mrs Dijkstra once again asked for confirmation that the SiRM report on the variants of the organisation was expected in June. My information is that this is still the case. She also asked for clarification on the issue of European law. The whole period should be proportionate. It must therefore not last longer from a European legal point of view than is strictly necessary. I told you, this can't be cut with scissors. That's why everyone will understand that if you want to come to very fundamental choices, you can't do that in a curse and a sigh. Our estimate now is that two or three years could be proportional, but we certainly don't. It may lead to discussions with the European Commission. We do not expect that at the moment, but we cannot predict it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u86	I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, and I also understand that his preference goes in the direction of those three years. I also heard his remarks earlier about Mrs Keijzer's possible amendment. I do think one thing is important, and Mrs Gerbrands actually said it. Even if you want a final law as soon as possible, the longer you make the extension period, the more uncertainty that means in all areas for everyone who works in ambulance care. I think that's a big concern. That is also why I asked the Secretary of State not to be able to achieve 2020, but to assume that 2020 can be achieved. I keep thinking that he's actually indicating that he's not. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u87	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Here's what I'm worried about. Making a law with all kinds of regulations that you put into it is up to now, but there is also a question of organization, namely: how do you think ambulance care should be organized? That is a discussion that is also taking place in this Chamber, and I have noticed that the views on it have been quite different and may continue to be so in the coming period. I find it very difficult to predict whether that debate will go very quickly in the new Chamber and that we will reach agreement very quickly, of: this is the order, so you can translate it into a legislative proposal, or that this will lead to a lot of discussion. That's my point. I very much agree with what Mrs Dijkstra says: we can do our very best and make a proposal. What are the choices? The new cabinet will have to do that. Whether the parliamentary debate is going smoothly, because there is not so much discussion about this order, and so we are meeting that deadline, I dare not predict that. I can only say that the government will come up with a proposal as soon as possible so that this debate can take place. Then it's up to the Chamber how fast it goes. My experience is that planning questions sometimes take time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u88	I agree with the Secretary of State, but, of course, we have seen it more often: if you extend the deadline and say that it will take a year longer, it will just happen and it will, by definition, take longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u90	So keeping the pressure on the boiler wouldn't be wrong either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u91	Let me say here: even if there would be an amendment which states two years or three years, that is what I believe there is, then I will not consider that as an incentive to take those two or three years as well. I think it would be a good idea to say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u92	If the deadline is extended to three years as proposed by the CDA, I understand exactly the dilemma outlined by the Secretary of State here. Do we know to a sufficient extent whether the law is still in line with European legislation? Or do we run the risk of making a law here, which lawyers are going to say isn't supposed to be, and which the First Chamber suddenly says: there are so many doubts about, we don't approve that law? Then we'll land in the pit together. Is it still possible to get any explanation on that very quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u93	I am a little hesitant because the demand is that the deadline should be proportionate. Then the question is whether two or three years is proportional. When I look at the arrangements for ambulance provision in Europe, in other countries, where a particular organization has been chosen, I do not think that for two or three years there is much to be gained from the proportionality of an amendment that we are proposing at the moment, and we are going to consider very carefully what is the best organisation for the Netherlands. I can imagine that, in the course of further preparation, we will look again at what that means. I think that the new cabinet could give this a little attention and that this point should be explicitly addressed in the drafting of the law. I can't give you any further projections. The estimate now is that that should be proportionate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u94	A new cabinet is no longer about this law, but about the final law. It will therefore have to be final at that time. Can the Secretary of State give any clue that these three years do indeed fit within the laws and regulations? Is it possible to make a very quick check before we vote on it? If we move the vote a little further, is it possible to clarify that? Or is this a point that has to do with interpretation and where we have to explore with each other on the basis of a legal feeling whether or not it can be done? That is sometimes the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u95	Maybe this is what we can do. I have just said that we do not regard those three years as an incentive to take three years. At the same time, the new cabinet must work on a new law. If the new cabinet does not take those three years at all and is going to do it sooner, the question of proportionality is not on the agenda. We'd have had those two years or something in between. Perhaps the amendment could include 'up to three years' or something like that. That already helps to make the trade-off you're looking for security in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u96	We've had a temporary law for five years. Of course, it's about temporaryity. It is not two or three years, but seven or eight years in total. Does the Secretary of State still think it's proportional?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u97	Those five years have not so far led to discussion. Nor do I expect it to lead to discussion if we extend that period for some time in order to settle the matter properly. I don't want to call that discussion either. If we now say that it will take up to three years and that we will do our utmost to ensure that this period is as short as possible, I think we have a good case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u98	Secretary of State, it might be good to come back to this point in the second term. I also see the doubt among Members and we still have a second term. Let's make a deal like that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u99	Indeed, we should not have doubt in our eyes. I agree. Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Keijzer have asked a number of questions about the fifteen-minute standard. The fifteen-minute standard is laid down in a ministerial regulation under the temporary law and is incredibly important. That requirement applies by ambulance region. The field and I see that the fifteen minute standard is not the ideal standard to describe the quality of ambulance care. The norm is the only thing we have and is also important, because it sets a standard. The standard is also important for the purchase by health insurance companies and is used by the IGZ for supervision. The IGZ says it is difficult to ensure that the standard is met, if you can deviate from it. That is difficult, because the inspection will then ask: explain in what cases you couldn't have saved the why. It's very good that the inspection does. The NZa also uses the standard for its supervision of insurance obligations. The NZa has requested improvement plans from insurers for those regions that do not comply with the standard. This year it will monitor the progress of these actions twice. We maintain the fifteen-minute standard until we have other standards that we are all satisfied with. We ask the NZa to look more closely at which regions are failing and what is needed for this. When it is found that the standard is not being met, I will ask the NZa to pay particular attention to these regions in its monitoring of health insurers and driving times. I thought I'd answered all the specific questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u100	Have you finished your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u101	I would have finished my reply, but I see that I still have three questions to answer from Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u102	We're gonna do that first. Then, if necessary, I'll give you an opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u103	There are three further questions from Mrs Keijzer. Are municipalities involved in ROAZ? After all, it's about their inhabitants. For topics where this is relevant, it seems to me appropriate that ROAZ should seek contact with the municipalities. I'll talk to ROAZ about that. I've been asked what I think of the psycholance experiment and the state of play. Many regions are working on pilots, but some of them are still in the preparatory phase. So I can't tell you how many of those psycholances there are. It is very good that experiments are being carried out on new forms of suitable transport for people with confused behaviour, because this is a very specific problem that made it possible to respond adequately. Therefore, subsidies have also become available. But I don't have any information yet on exactly how many psycholances there are. Mrs Keijzer once again explicitly asked whether the distinction between A rides and B rides would prejudice the final law. I thought I'd already gone into that. No, that's not true. The B rides remain ambulance care and remain reserved for ambulance services. I believe that I have already said the following about the deviation from normal times. I will ask the Dutch Healthcare Authority to check specifically with the RAVs where there are questions about this deviation from standard times, what the reasons are and what improvements are needed and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u104	On two of these points, the Secretary of State did not answer exactly what I asked for. My question was as follows. The Temporary Ambulance Care Act states that a health insurance company may be motivated to deviate from the 15-minute standard. When this was introduced, it was a transitional arrangement. Isn't it time to get that transitional provision out of the scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u105	In practice, it is sometimes necessary, for example because there are renovations, because there is still a need to invest in a new ambulance, or because there is a need to look at the pitches. As a result, there are sometimes those exceedances. By the way, it is also true that the technique in ambulance care does not stand still. For example, one often takes the engine quickly to an event to stabilize. It's only after that that an ambulance arrives. There may therefore be reasons why this is not at the expense of the quality of care. But we have to be very alert. The point, however, is that we actually have nothing but the fifteen-minute standard. So I really do not want to screw that up in any way. So I do not want to say that we need different standards, nor that we need to get rid of this derogation. I don't want to say both things right now. In today's practice, it works fairly well. We score high marks. Where there is a deviation from the standard, we see how that is done and whether the quality of ambulance care is at risk. If so, improvement plans will be requested. In view of the temporary nature of this law, I would not therefore like to go into this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u106	But it is already the case that at least 95% of these rush journeys must be on the spot within five minutes of their arrival. So all these possibilities why it doesn't work in practice are already in there. I would therefore ask you once again: is it not wise to take more out of the scheme than that? I am asking all the more because it was a transitional provision. I also asked whether the Court could receive reports on the progress of all these actions, as summarised by the Secretary of State, and on their effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u107	I have no objection to the latter, of course. We will ask the Dutch Healthcare Authority to do so. I think it would be wise not to work on the standards for ambulance services under this temporary law. That would bring back all kinds of other things. Where is it? Where isn't it? And what's the consequence of that? I think we should now, if it is possible to do so, put this law into procedure as soon as possible and then discuss with each other later on whether different standards are necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u108	Finishing, Mrs. Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u109	The Secretary of State also sailed on another point with his answer just past my question. I have asked whether it is not strange that municipalities are not in the Regional Consultation Acute Care. It is being discussed that it would be wise if the ROAZ were to inform and involve municipalities. Practice shows that this does not happen or is insufficient. By simply including municipalities in that consultation, you are right to ensure that they are involved in all discussions, which primarily concern the inhabitants of those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u110	Yes, but in that regional consultation on ambulance care, a multitude of subjects are discussed. Sometimes it is about the inhabitants of the municipalities, but sometimes it is also about completely different subjects. I can imagine that municipalities will say: we do not have to sit around to meet. However, I would like to assure Mrs Keijzer that I will look together with the municipalities and the ROAZ's at which issues indeed affect the municipalities. If they are at issue, municipalities should be involved and should participate in the ROAZ meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u111	I see you're ready. Thank you very much for your answer. I have one more clarity to clarify in this Chamber about the Nijboer amendment. I had it checked out: it's not a heavy front, it's a heavy afterhang. It's a bit legal and technically complicated, but it's good to record that, even for your personal deliberations. So we move on to the second term of the... Oh, excuse! It is good that I am reminded: I would like to ask the Secretary of State for an opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u112	Mr President, you had not forgotten that, but I had forgotten that. In the amendment to item No. 8 by Mr Nijboer that there is a strong involvement of the Chamber in the establishment of the ministerial arrangement; even more, that it should become an AMvB. I have no objection to this amendment and leave it to the Chamber. I would like to ask whether the Chamber would like to see whether it should be the heavy afterhang or whether another form could be devised for it. The disadvantage of the heavy afterhang is that there is less flexibility and that it takes more time, as I have changed with Mr Rutte. The amendment in part No. 9 by Mrs Marijnissen, I advise. We also exchanged that in the debate. The amendment actually states that no change is taking place, while the government's position is: we want to maintain the quality and expertise of the ambulance nurse, but we do want to make it possible for some functional differentiation to take place. We want to record that properly, by the way. Maybe that happens in an AMvB, where the Chamber can watch. As regards Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments to the motion for a resolution. I had suggested to Mrs Gerbrands that we should include 'at least' so that we have a basis for incorporating this into the scheme. If Mrs Gerbrands responds to this suggestion, I will leave it to the House to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u113	If it is correct, there is an amended amendment which states that an ambulance nurse can also work with the rest of the ambulance care, so it is not limited to the rush rides only. Because I understood that I was making a clear divorce. So I'm not gonna make that divorce right now. Only at least on emergency journeys must be a certified ambulance nurse, not only that the ambulance nurse can also drive on other journeys.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u114	I think it would be good to have a look at the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u115	Then we will agree and then you will come back to this specific amendment and this question in the second term. There is also the amendment to item No. 11 by Mrs Keijzer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u116	If Mrs Keijzer could find a way of expressing our mutual effort that three years will not always be three years, but that it will be three years at the most, I will leave the judgement to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u117	Thank you very much for your answers. I would now like to move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen from the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u118	Mr. Chairman. We are sticking to our amendment. In fact, this debate has only strengthened us in this respect. I think we've talked enough about ifs and buts of the introduction of the new term "care ambulance professional." Furthermore, the door is being opened to something that we do not know what will come of. It has not become clear to me in this debate whether the Secretary of State can give the guarantee, in fact, it has become clear that he cannot do so, that there could still be foreign parties or other parties that are going to do so. Then it is not so much about the A and B rides, the emergency care and the planned care, but about part of the planned care. It is evident that by defining whether, if you like, redefining a piece of planned care, of the B rides, which is now covered by ambulance care and is also carried out by the ambulance, a piece of the B rides is excluded. That is what the government is actually saying: that is no longer ambulance care. So that is outside of what we are discussing here regarding the Temporary Ambulance Services Act. That's exactly where our concern lies. That's gonna break the door down. This defines the distinction between the medically necessary and the not medically necessary. That's new; that's what was said. We certainly do not want to do that, because we think that you are taking an advance on something that we do not want it to go that way. And I asked another question that the Secretary of State didn't answer. It was about the profits that seem to be being made here and there in various Regional Ambulance Facilities at the moment. Is the Secretary of State aware of this and what is his opinion on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u119	I'm hesitant, because didn't I understand what's going on here today? I just asked the Secretary of State if this bill doesn't change the fact that ambulance services are defined as a simple product of emergency and planned care. Perhaps I misunderstand Mrs Marijnissen, but does she think that the present law will lead us to anticipate a discussion that has yet to be followed, namely the discussion that planned care will be privatised in the near future? If that is the case, then I am in the wrong debate or I said the wrong things on behalf of the CDA and then things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u120	In any case, I read the answer as follows. And I admit that I had to study for a long time and talked to a lot of wise people about it, because I didn't see it at first either. The SP sees it this way: the distinction between A and B is not affected, but what is now B, the planable piece, is now defined as having to be a medical necessity. That's new, because it wasn't there before. With this you make sure that some of the work that is now being done in the B-ridts, may not be done anymore. It is said in the explanatory statement that we are opening it up to other parties, probably not RAVs, to do that work. That's where our concern lies. That is not A/B, but within B part of B2 is now falling completely into the jargon; I am sorry but there is no other way to put it: that is not really an ambulance care? That's what the Secretary of State just said. So he doesn't think we should do that. It is now. Again, that's new. That is what we are saying: you must not want other, possibly even foreign parties to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u121	Does this mean that I have to combine Mr Rutte's contribution with Mrs Marijnissen's? Do we say to each other, if we adopt this law: yes, we think it is wise that the gentleman or the lady who has to go to the hospital for chemo should go in a regular taxi? Then we are all working together to keep care affordable in a good way. The SP doesn't want the care to be unnecessarily expensive, does it? We all see that in the end in our bounty, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u122	Yes, I think that reasoning is correct. With the conclusion, it won't surprise you, I don't agree. This has to do with the fact that we have heard from the people who are now on the ambulance: that distinction is not easy to make. It is now going too far in the second period to go into this, but yesterday I saw the following. A gentleman fell in the bathtub. He's supposed to be in a nursing home, but there's no nursing home. Does the gentleman have to go to a hospital with an ambulance in a hurry and flashing lights? No, not at all, not at all! But it is very nice at that time that the people of the ambulance are there to do that. In advance, when the report came in, the urgency could not be estimated in that sense whether or not there was a medical need to make that journey. That is what we are going to do here today if we agree not only to the extension but also to the amendment of the Temporary Ambulance Act. We believe that this requires much more debate than we are doing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u123	That seems to me to be a bad example, because that is unplanned concern: someone who falls and who, especially in view of his age, needs to be transported to the hospital to see what's going on, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u124	Yeah, but he could do fine with a taxi, could be the reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u125	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u126	But that's exactly the slippery slope you're getting on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u127	I understand that this is a fervent debate that still needs to be extended. I would like you to say something or ask a question in conclusion now, Mrs Keijzer. And that goes for you, too, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u128	I think Mrs Marijnissen's example is a wrong one, because that is about unplanned medical care. It is a question of whether this law will lead to a decision that we should not take because we will have another planning discussion with each other. I don't think that's the case. I regret, however, that the SP is acting as if it were, because if this were the case, we would have to have this discussion with each other. We would then be doing something very fundamental. In my opinion, that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u129	Finally. In fact, I think that we should have had a very wide-ranging discussion with each other. That is why we, as SP, have previously proposed to explain this controversially, but this could not be because of the technical reasons and the deadlines. But it had to do with this. You're going to redefin some of the B2 rides. There is something new in that, namely the aspect of the medical necessity. We find that very debatable. We had a brief conversation about the different ways in which you can explain that. If you do that now and if you open those rides to other parties, as stated in the explanatory statement, you'll be on a slippery slope. We shouldn't want that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u130	Thank you. Mrs Gerbrands will refrain from speaking. Mrs. Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u131	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the current staff cut-off among highly skilled ambulance staff;]] [[Considering the advantage that a more general job description of care professional can provide for easier recruitment of (higher-trained) staff;]] [[Whereas it is important that highly qualified staff remain available for scheduled transport and are not fully replaced by lower-skilled staff;]] [[calls on the Government to develop the concept of ambulance care professional in such a way that the proposed amendment promotes the influx of highly skilled ambulance staff, ensures that they continue to work in B transport and that task differentiation is made possible where appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Keijzer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34623-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u132	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the first-term response. It's a good thing he agrees that the Chamber is watching very closely how we're going to shape the definition of ambulance professional. There is a proposal that has been drawn up together with professionals from the industry, on which we can speak as a Chamber. The PvdA's amendment that is now there does not fit me well. It doesn't fit Mrs Dijkstra of D66 very well either. That is why we are preparing an amendment to create a veil, which will mean that there will no longer be a ministerial arrangement, but an AMvB. The AMvB goes to the Chamber four weeks in advance, allowing us to stop and discuss the substance of the matter. We absolutely do not want us to have to legislate on such matters. Then we miss the necessary flexibility. I hope that the amendment will be ready before the Secretary of State comes to an end. Otherwise, I would like a written explanation if it does not work within the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u133	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Secretary of State for his first reply. Mr Rutte has already indicated that there is an amendment in which we look at the possibilities of a lighter front. I am still a little concerned about one point, although we have had a detailed exchange of views on it: European legislation. We do not want the senators, when this law comes into the First Chamber, to say that they are not convinced that this is going to be all right. In the note on the report, the Minister states that the Council of State's opinion on this European law has been followed and that the national attorney does not see problems in terms of two years, but we are talking about a year longer. I certainly do not want to postpone things, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State if it is still possible to come back to that year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u134	I call Mrs Keijzer, because Mr Nijboer has apologized to himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u135	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. For me and the CDA Group, it is important and it has become clear that the extension and amendment of the Temporary Ambulance Act does not prejudge the planning debate that we are going to have in this Chamber to the fullest extent. We have been waiting for this discussion for quite a number of years. That is why I have tabled the amendment proposing that this law should not be extended for two years but for three years. Why? Absolutely not with the intention of saying: boys, all calm down, because we have an extra year. No, the intention is still to quickly look at how we are going to organise this in the future, but not with such urgency that we cannot carefully look at all the advantages and disadvantages of the different variants. The Secretary of State has asked me to explain this again. Here's to it. It is therefore not a problem for me to change the wording in the amendment to 'up to eight years'. I think that, to reassure Mrs Dijkstra, it would be a good idea to take a look in the Cabinet's mind to see if there are any European legal objections. I don't think so, but at the same time I say, "Who am I?" In order to reassure Mrs Dijkstra, I would therefore ask the government whether this leads to problems. My second amendment has now been tabled, if it is correct. The second amendment aims to maintain the distinction between ambulance nurses and ambulance professionals. In doing so, I would like to express the appreciation for the highly trained and experienced ambulance nurse, but at the same time I would like to make it possible to give lower or otherwise trained staff a place in the relevant ambulance rides. If necessary, I can also agree that the Secretary of State will respond in writing later on to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u136	I read it fast. With this amendment, I believe that Mrs Keijzer is opening the rush trips to other healthcare professionals. I wouldn't be much in favour of that. Mrs Keijzer deliberately left open the choice to use another ambulance professional instead of the ambulance nurse. In doing so, it makes no distinction between rush journeys and other journeys. So it is keeping the road open for displacement of the ambulance nurse on the rush drives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u137	That is Mrs Gerbrands' interpretation of this amendment, but that is absolutely not what I am trying to do. The amendment also states that rules should be laid down for the use of the ambulance professional and the ambulance nurse under ministerial rules. This bill also includes the ministerial regulation on the requirements that people have to meet in order to provide certain forms of care. So I am absolutely not trying to achieve this displacement. I don't think anyone here wants that. Moreover, you run into the quality framework that Zorginstituut Nederland is currently preparing for emergency care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u138	Mrs. Gerbrands for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u139	In my view, Mrs Keijzer's amendment only retains the name 'ambulance nurse' and nothing else. Because that is the only thing that is being changed about the government's proposal as it stands. The only thing is that the name "ambulance nurse" is retained. Furthermore, we can determine the qualities and supplies per ministerial arrangement. So that is all you are amending with this amendment, Mrs Keijzer. That's why I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u140	It might be good to go to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u141	No, because this amendment maintains the definition of paramedic who is now in the Temporary Ambulance Services Act. This refers to the decision of functional independence which sets out the requirements for ambulance nurses. So what Mrs Gerbrands is saying here is absolutely not my intention. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State, possibly in a written appreciation of the amendment, whether it can nevertheless be read in this way. Then I am prepared to amend this, because I did not intend to read what Mrs Gerbrands thinks here. I think that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u142	Thank you very much. This brings to an end the second term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. I think this was fairly clear. Is the Secretary of State therefore able to respond immediately? That is the case, but Mr Rutte still has a procedural question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u143	Mr President, you can guess my thoughts. I have just sent an amendment to the Bureau of Legislation. So that's gonna come in any minute. If we suspend for a very short time, the Secretary of State can give an oral opinion on that immediately. Otherwise, it's gonna have to be by note. That would be a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u144	I understand that, but I can see that VAOs are still pouring in on the agenda. I can't tell you how long all this is going to take and that's why I just want to start. If we then feel that Bureau Legislation is running, we can always suspend for a while after the answer that has already been given. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u145	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen asked a question about the profits. It is true that, in the current situation, there are also companies that make profits. That allows for the current order. That is precisely one of the reasons for thinking about how the order should be. So if the majority of the Chamber were to believe that this should not be the case in the future, it could decide on the basis of the order debate that should be held with the new cabinet. I also have a comment on the small debate that took place between Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Keijzer. In the way I see it, I share Mrs Keijzer's interpretation. If an ambulance needs to be deployed, it will always take place through the centralist. That's a nurse. It will assess whether it is medically necessary or not. Now I come to the motion on part No. 14 by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Keijzer. They ask for it to be designed in such a way as to promote the influx of highly skilled personnel and to enable them to continue to work in B transport where appropriate. I believe that this motion reflects the main thrust of the debate, particularly as regards our efforts in the field of training and the labour market. I'll leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then I come to Mr Rutte's amendment that is being made. Mr President, I do not know exactly when the votes on all the amendments will take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u146	They will take place on Tuesday. There should therefore be a response before Tuesday, unless the amendment comes very quickly now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u147	At first hearing, I have no objection to this amendment. I note, however, that there is an amendment tabled by Mr Nijboer and therefore now a new amendment which partly addresses that amendment. I could imagine that the Chamber would take a moment to examine with the various authors whether one could come up with a single text. On the basis of what I hear, I have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u148	I can also imagine that the Chamber might still consider leaving the votes a little in order to have more time for discussion, but that is up to the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u149	Then I come to Mrs Dijkstra's questions on proportionality. I have indicated that, of course, that is not a rule. You can't cut it with scissors. The legal assessment we are making now is: the shorter, the better of course, I have also indicated this in the debate, but three years is not disproportionate. Two years is always better. You'll run less risk. However, we do not see that a period of three years is disproportionate. That is our legal assessment at the moment. Mrs Keijzer announced that she would change the wording of her amendment to 'up to eight years'. That means that I can leave the judgement to the Chamber. I am not in favour of having another definition for the term "ambulance care professional." I think the situation is as follows. We've got paramedics. Soon at AMvB, we're going to define the tasks of those ambulance care professionals. There will be several ambulance care professionals, ambulance nurses, as well as others. We are going to lay down the levels of expertise required in laws and regulations. I think that is sufficient guarantee. Let's not look for it in the names now, but let's make sure we make a good AMvB later, where the Chamber can watch. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u150	The Secretary of State has therefore completed his reply. Secretary of State, can I summarize it so that your opinion on the amendment by the VVD and D66, by Mr Rutte and Mrs Dijkstra, which is still in the making, is, in principle, positive and that, should you deviate from that, we should receive another letter? Can you live with that? I see that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u151	In an interrupting debate with Mrs Gerbrands, the Secretary of State just said, when she said that she had amended her amendment, that he should take a look at the text. I am actually curious to know what his opinion is on the amended amendment to item No. 12. I regret, of course, that he is wiping my amendment off the table with such a brief reaction. I have tried to respond to the concerns of the paramedics and to express the appreciation for their work. I tried to secure that in the law. At the same time, I tried to leave the possibility open for an ambulance care professional. So I'm asking the Secretary of State to think about it a little longer. He just got it on his table. I wonder if he's read it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u152	This Secretary of State always reads everything. It is good to stress that the rating for the ambulance nurse, with its expertise, should be given a good place in the AMvB. We have all said that we need to look closely at that. We must also have possibilities for functional differentiation. You've got paramedics. There can be many or few of them. We are going to define the tasks and powers of the various officials. That seems to me to be a very good way forward. Let us not introduce other concepts now. That's what we need to find out. That is why I reject the amendment. I have seen that Mrs Gerbrands has indicated in her amendment what the minimum standard for emergency care is. It is not excluded that other care may also involve the use of an ambulance nurse. It'll be deployed wherever it's needed. If an ambulance nurse is needed on a ride, so can I. That is why I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u153	My amendment just came in. I can live with the judgment 'in principle agree', but if the Secretary of State still wants to read it and give his final judgment immediately, I agree with it. Then I'm gonna need some coulance from the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u154	I think I understood the non-verbal attitude. The verdict is positive. If things are really different, you will receive a written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-17.u155	I would like to thank the Members of Parliament, the Secretary of State, the staff and the people in the public gallery. Vote on this bill is in principle scheduled for next Tuesday, including the motions and amendments tabled.
