ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. I give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV as the first speaker. Speaking time is three minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. "The task of the police is to ensure the effective enforcement of the rule of law and to provide assistance to those who need it, in accordance with the law in force," according to Article 3 of the Police Act. So not to connect, drive political debates or organise eiftars, but to ensure the safety of citizens in the Netherlands. All citizens, with no respect for themselves. That task includes a uniform that radiates uniformity, i.e. without any religious symbols. That is what the code of conduct says, and that is how it should be. People who do not recognize themselves in the police and believe that they do not have to listen to the police, have problems with authority. Chief Aalbersberg clearly doesn't think so. He pays Mrs. Elatik €12,000 a month to "keep sharp" him, and now as a reward on tour along all his teams to regain support. He has lost that support not only among a large part of his agents, but also among the citizens. Police forces themselves organise fortuitous meals with the slogan "change of food" while civilians sigh under the nuisance of what is called "ramadanreljeugd," to name but one example. The urge to get as many people with a migration background in the corps as possible is so great that applicants are rejected because of the lack of that migration background and applicants with a migration background that did not pass the cognitive test are allowed. As I understand it, applicants are asked, even in the recruitment procedure, what they think of the PVV. This not only results in the withdrawal of promising aspirants, but also the erosion of the corps itself. Citizens, mayors, Commissioners of the King and agents themselves are concerned about organised crime, about the continuing terrorist threat of radicalising young people and returned jihadists, and about the disappearance of agents from the neighbourhoods. Aid workers and cops don't get away with it either. Think about the new year. Last night in Amsterdam a police car was pounded with a flower box and then set fire to it, while policemen were in the process of receiving an emergency call. That's what needs to be worked on. A chief of police bowing to the Islamic symbols and a leadership with a discriminatory preference policy do not fit in with that. As far as my group is concerned, therefore, the Minister points out to the corps leadership in no uncertain terms their legal duties and the Minister is putting an end to this inappropriate and also undermining diversity policy, which completely ignores the so-called commitment of the Minister in his letter. I would like to hear his reaction, because I am considering a motion on that point because of the fact that Chief Constable Aalbersberg has indicated that he is maintaining his position and has informed the Chief Constable that there is no basis for it now, but that this discussion will probably come again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u3	The PVV says we're going for neutrality with the police. We also know that there are a number of policemen within the police organisation who are racist and xenophobic. A person who is racist and xenophobic is usually not neutral. It rules out people. What does the PVV think should be done to tackle those racists and xenophobics within the police organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u4	I have answered that question many times, but I will certainly do it again. We need to take a firm stand against that. This debate is also about the appearance of the uniform and, more broadly speaking, the diversity policy. I have just spoken about this. But if Mr Öztürk would like to hear one more time that racist remarks about and again do not belong, I have confirmed that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u5	These racists also radiate something: a piece of racism, a piece of xenophobia, a piece of exclusion. That also creates an appearance that is not neutral. But concrete measures do not dare to take the PVV. It also wishes to delete Article 1. Isn't that what you're talking about taking away the foundation of neutrality?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u6	I have answered that many times. Article 1 of the Constitution ignores the discussion we are discussing. Mr Öztürk spoke about a comment and what the appearance should be. We're talking about the uniform here. I have tried many times to answer that, but you must also want to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. The VVD understands the call for more diversity within national police. I understand that the Corps Command hopes to be able to act even more effectively with a more diverse force. But what I do not understand is how this policy is being implemented at the moment. Both in the Force of Difference programme and beyond, a multitude of initiatives are being taken, with the impression that it is becoming easier for people with a migration background to join the Corps and that they are being promoted. That can and should never be the intention. Diversity is important, but admission requirements are not affected. In the event of unequal fitness, quality must always weigh more heavily. Can the Minister confirm that you are a police career based on what you can and not on who you are? The Chief Constable is committed to achieving a different 25% inflow by the end of 2017. Right now, we're at 20%. How does the Chief Constable recruit 5% in the next six months, I ask the Minister? The number of agents with a migration background has doubled in the last three years. Then it's just good, isn't it? Why all the extra initiatives and test balloons? I would like a response to that. I'll be on the Blue Talent pilot. The VVD has been critical of this initiative since day one. The pilot involves a guidance pathway for people with a migration background who want to become a cop. If they don't make it on the first day of selection, they get a second chance, the minister writes. How can this be reconciled with the statement in the same letter, namely that selection criteria are not affected? And if that second chance has to be there, why not for everyone? I would like a response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u8	The 2016 annual report shows that the doubling of the influx of aspirants with a migration background is partly due to the programme's tailor-made blue. If aspirants with a migration background don't pass the test, they get the chance to be nailed, so they'll make it. I have always heard Mr Tellegen criticise that. Does she suddenly agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u9	No, I'm absolutely not. That's exactly my question. I want to know exactly what's going on with that pilot. I remember the last debate we had with the minister's predecessor on this subject. That is where we got together to ask what is going on with this pilot, because we are actually against it. We were then promised that we would be informed, but we are not. That's why I'm putting that question here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u11	I'm gonna move on to the test balloons the police department recently launched itself. Fortunately, the Minister is very clear about this. Police vacations written purely and exclusively for people with a migration background are inadmissible. But what exactly is the contentious proposal of the Amsterdam police chief Aalbersberg to allow headscarves? The VVD is absolutely against this. The police are wearing uniforms for a reason. The term says it all: uniform. The police must stand above the parties and radiate neutrality, so no SP button, no Feyenoord scarf and no headscarfs. How does the Minister read the Chief Constable's statement that there is currently no support for the proposal? What do you mean, "at the moment"? Can the Minister confirm that the 2011 Code of Conduct is in full effect and that there will never be any religious expression in the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u12	I believe that the words of the Amsterdam Commissioner have been different. He asked for a social debate, to conduct a discussion on religious manifestations in the police and to promote diversity. What is Mrs Tellegen's view of a neutral social debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u13	Discussion is always good. Mrs Özütok has just heard me say that in principle I am not opposed to a more diverse police force, but quality must always be the starting point. I do not believe that the chief of police from Amsterdam only wanted to start a social discussion. He's actually in favour of doing this. That's what the papers have been full of for days. I believe that was something more than starting a social debate. And we are not in favour of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u14	He sought clear support for the ideas to improve diversity in the police. It was a call for a social debate, a call for a debate on this issue. We're doing that a little bit now. What is Mrs Tellegen's position on giving room for discussion in society? I haven't heard her say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u15	I believe that the debate has been a success, because the newspapers have been full of it for weeks. Two groups were very clearly opposed to each other: people who are strongly in favour of it for various reasons versus those who are not in favour of it. Apart from the principled point of view whether you are in favour or against, I find it interesting whether allowing agents to wear headscarves leads to more people with a migration background in the police force at all. I would like that question to be answered; that is separate from the fact that I am at all opposed to the principle. There has to be respect for the uniform, no matter who wears that uniform. It should never be the case that ethnicity determines which agent you address or hold. Everyone in our society must respect the police and the uniform. A diverse corps can make a contribution to that respect, without giving up on the uniform.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr. Chairman. How do we make the police force more diverse when it comes to gender, ethnicity, orientation, level of education and specialist knowledge? That must be at the heart of the debate with regard to D66. The debate should not therefore focus on whether or not agents should wear headscarves. This does not solve the diversity issue in the police. That only leads to polarization. Let me state clearly the position of D66 on key points in the police: government officials dealing with law and order must act as neutrally as possible. Officials in uniform, such as police officers, military officers and judges, should therefore refrain from any form of philosophical expression. But not only neutrality as far as D66 is concerned is an essential condition for the legitimacy of our police; so is diversity. A diverse corps represents a realistic reflection of Dutch society and can therefore perform its police work better. New initiatives are therefore necessary. As far as D66 is concerned, this is a national policy. That is why it is good that the Minister's letter shows that he too is now convinced of the importance of a diverse corps. The Chamber had him there in 2015 with motion-Recourt/Berndsen (29628, nr. 575), after most of the diversity initiatives had been shut down during Rutte I cabinet. That is why I am curious whether there are any results from the Force of Difference programme, which has been launched as a result of the vote. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Diversity is wider than ethnic background. It is no secret that the police urgently need higher education. The response to the 2016 annual report shows that there is no visibility of the outflow of HBOs. What's the deal with that? After all, we can keep pulling at the front, but with a high outflow, that has little effect. Unlike the VVD, D66 is happy with routes such as Blue Talent, where various talents are accompanied if necessary in order to complete the regular selection process. Are we going to apply that widely now? D66 also sees a role for reduced training programmes, not only to promote diversity but also to attract more higher-skilled people. Shortcuts and switching programmes ensure that people who already have a different MBO or HBO training, for example, can turn blue by a shortcut instead of having to complete the four-year training. This could increase the attractiveness of police training for many people. How does the Minister see this? Does he see room for improvement? I am considering tabling a motion on this matter in the second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. "There is exclusion within the police organisation. Cops are being called fucking Muslims by their colleagues. Cops think you should set mosques on fire. Leaders ask cops with a beard if they're radicalizing. These aren't incidents. This happens to the police every day. This is what a lot of cops are going through." These are not my words, but the words of former Chief of Staff Gerard Bouman, the chief of police at the time. We've been two years. Are the problems that Bouman described solved now? Has the police become more diverse? Are the racist cowboys gone? Unfortunately, the answer is no. All those years of beautiful shiny reports, meetings, diversity managers and beautiful words. Nothing's changed. Because now the Amsterdam police chief is being sent on an apology tour. He needs to assure his teams that there's no room for headscarfs in the police department after all. He must take a deep bow and send the signal to the rest of the Netherlands that there is no room for diversity. Unfortunately, this is the fate of a corps that advocates diversity. We at DENK represent diversity in the broadest sense of the word. The Netherlands wants to be a guide country, but unfortunately we are caught up by other countries. Take a look at the next pictures. This is a picture from America. Many parties cite America as an example. This is America, including the PVV, America. This is a picture from England and this is from Canada. It's all possible. I'm fine. There's no complaints. Diversity means that you also give space to each other and appearance does not mean that you always bring a certain religious movement into your work. In the Netherlands we do selective diversity. For example, lhbt agents are encouraged to be recognizable, to connect and seek with the community, but Khadija may not wear a headscarf, Geert does not wear a kettle and Knoops no cross sign. But why should they not be recognizable as Muslims, Christians or Jews, as in the three countries I have just mentioned? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. Neutrality is not determined by your clothes, by your beard, faith or appearance. Neutrality is determined by your actions. Let us create a diverse society, in which you look at the actions of the person rather than at his appearance and at what he carries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u18	Mr. Chairman. The police are there for everyone in society and will therefore need to be a good reflection of our society. But right now, the police aren't as diverse as they want. To give you an example: of the top 71 highest police leadership only one person has a non-Western background. With the Amsterdam police, 18% of the corps have a migrant background, while the Amsterdam population consists of 52% of people with a migrant background. For an institution that functions in the grace of trust and support in society, that is very worrying. The police, and the district agents first, are the eyes and ears in society. They must now be able to do what they are good at: maintaining contact in the neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods. GroenLinks welcomed the proposal of the Amsterdam police commissioner to start a discussion on the diversity policy within the police. As far as we are concerned, the promotion of diversity in the police should not, in advance, create taboos. I am sorry that Chief Constable Akerboom and this Minister quickly smothered the debate sparked by the Amsterdam police commissioner. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there is a great need for such a discussion. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, there should be room for discussion of all proposals that contribute to a diverse workforce. Ultimately, each proposal will have to decide whether the benefits outweigh the disadvantages. I would like to hear from the Minister how he and the police organisation intend to work quickly on more diversity. Many noises have already emerged from the police themselves which show that there is also a great desire within the police to put diversity high on the agenda. It is good to note this, but I would ask the Minister to ensure that the ambitions are really translated into concrete results. Is the Minister prepared to discuss all options contributing to diversity with the police and is he prepared to investigate the public support for the conduct of philosophical and religious expressions by police officers? I await the Minister's response. I'm considering tabling a motion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. Chairman. The Minister knows last year's example of the police officer with a Moroccan background from Amsterdam. He helped his family file a report in Enschede. What happened then is unbelievable. He made himself known as a police officer, but the officers on duty couldn't believe that such a person would be a cop. He was scolded, treated with pepper spray and worked against a wall. His wrist was bruised, his clothes were torn apart, and he was locked in a cell at night. He made himself known as a police officer, but that was not believed because of his Moroccan background. Afterwards, an investigation was carried out. What does the case want? This police officer, I think, has unfortunately been a suspect in the meantime. This shows that discrimination and prejudice are unfortunately deep within the police organisation. It can't be. I am glad that since last year there has been a targeted policy to promote diversity in the police, but promoting diversity is not done by discrimination. If only people with a migrant background are asked for vacancies, this is not the right way to go. If people with a migrant background get extra points, that is not fighting discrimination. What is not good at all is what I see in Amsterdam. A former PvdA politician who has already left her tracks in the city in a negative sense..................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's a ministerial salary. Over the past week, we have seen how the police summit in Amsterdam is raided. How does the Minister see this example? Does he want to end this too? This is expensive public money that should be spent on blue on the street and not on hobbying old PvdA drivers. I am pleased that the Minister has withdrawn from the proposal on headscarves and that the vast majority of the politicians have also distanced themselves from it. That proposal is not the solution. A culture change with the police is the solution. If you're a cop, you have an external danger and you have to be internal comrades. There is a culture that is partly inward-looking, also to protect each other, but that must never lead to prejudice in that culture becoming dominant and causing colleagues to be discriminated against or to leave the police or people not joining the police because they do not recognise themselves in that culture. I also see, and this is a good thing, that in Amsterdam, relatively in recent times, many people with a migrant background have become active in the police. In other cities, like here in The Hague, this is not the case. Can the Minister go into that a little further? What about culture change, for example in Enschede? What measures are helping to achieve this? These are not the measures by which drivers are hired for €12,000 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u20	Mr. Chairman. The reason for this debate was the headscarf discussion, a few weeks ago with the Amsterdam police. Let us be clear: the Minister has already taken a position on this. We understand that the headscarf is not allowed and will not be allowed as part of the police uniform. The CDA Group wholeheartedly agrees with that. Essentially, the headscarf is a religious expression. We attach importance to the fact that organisations, such as the police, radiate neutrality, even when it comes to religion. What matters more today is the diversity policy of the police. Thank you for the letter. With the Minister and the Corps, we support the search for diversity in the Corps, as well as the fact that this diversity is getting a little bigger than it is today. But this is certainly not just about ethnicity. It's also about gender, age, education, orientation and other things. We believe it is important for the police to be a basic reflection of society. In the major cities of our country this also applies to the population with a migrant background. But let us not lose sight of it and let us also say that the admission requirements and the examination requirements are the same for all police officers. When I read the letter, I fully agree with what the Minister says about this: diversity policy, but on the basis of the usual preference policy. At most, an additional effort can be made in the recruitment, training and preparation of candidates from certain sections of the population. But our group is asking to confirm that every policeman and every policewoman must jump through the same hoop in order to graduate from the Police Academy. This is very important, not only for the self-esteem of the policemen involved, but also for the confidence of the public in the police in general. It is good that the Minister's letter is clear on this point. I do have a few questions. With regard to the target used, we read that this is an inflow of 25%. However, we understand that the police in Amsterdam are at 38%. How do these two things relate to each other? It seems a little like it's never enough. When I look at Utrecht, where we see that a lot of agents with a migration background are leaving again, I wonder what we are actually doing with that. We can set ourselves a higher goal each time, but I think it is much more important to see if we can keep the people who work there now and do the job well. That is at least as important and perhaps even more important at the moment. Especially when we're looking at Overfight. I would like to know a little more from the Minister about how it intends to achieve that? Let it be very clear: we ask for attention to be paid to the desire, to the dream of many Dutch young people to get a job in the police force. Despite all the problems, the police are a wanted employer. We really need to avoid creating an image as if you could only join the police from a certain background in this society. Can the Minister state what he is doing to ensure that it is as good for Annie, Truus, Jan and Piet to work in the police as anyone else?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u21	The CDA Group is also in favour of the neutrality of civil servants. Eventually, policemen are also state officials. But they have always made a heavy plea for it and have always supported it in order to give refuse officials the opportunity to refuse citizens who wanted a certain form of marriage. Is it not a little hypocritical to give full support to the refusal of officials and, in this case, to ban a headscarf?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u22	No, that's a completely different discussion. To make it clear with an example; we think it is very important that everyone can marry in any church and that everyone feels welcome in every church and that it doesn't matter at all whether you marry a man or a woman, if you are a man or a woman. The Council of State has been very clear that this does not mean that you should put people's ideas aside for that. The joke is that it is quite possible that you have someone with conscientious objection in an Amsterdam town hall, where about 360 people are marrying, and rightly so, while that does not occur in the Biblebelt. That could be the result of it. In our view, it should not be clear at all to anyone who is opposed to an official what someone thinks, and let that be exactly the case with a yarmulke, a headscarf or a cross.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u23	So a civil servant can simply refuse, from a certain belief. Suppose we get a PVV alderman somewhere, hopefully that never happens, and then an official says he wants another way of working, because he can't work with a PVV alderman on his conscience. It's okay. Apart from that, if young ladies with headscarves, and that is hundreds of thousands in the Netherlands, cannot become police women, do you not think that it is the exclusion of hundreds of thousands of young people who want to participate in this society, who want to make sure that this society becomes safe for all of us? Don't you think it's because of this attitude that you rule out all these young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u24	I'll start with the beginning of the question, about the PVV, that in all honesty was somewhat incoherent. I really don't understand. I would even like to ask the Minister, through you, to answer what Mrs Helder says, whether it is actually the case that police officers are asked: what do you think of the PVV? That's bizarre and unacceptable. I would very much like to know that from the Minister. So much for that point. Then the second part of the question. Anyone can join the police; just not with a headscarf. By definition, if you put on a headscarf, you have to find another job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u26	Does the CDA group say that they simply exclude young people with headscarfs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u28	But do you know that organisations are also asked: did you vote for DENK? It is not only the PVV, but organisations are also asked: did you vote for DENK? I would ask the CDA to commit itself to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u29	I would have liked you to have asked the Minister yourself, because apparently that is a relevant question, which is now only because it happens to be about the PVV. If that were the case, you would have to ask the Minister and I would be equally sorry. I find it striking that you are only saying this as a kind of rebuttal, because it is about the PVV, and that you are suddenly being pathetic. That's totally irrelevant. I just didn't hear you say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u30	You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u31	I do not understand exactly what the CDA Group wants with diversity in the police. Does it waive the proportionality objective? She says it's never enough and always has to go higher and higher. Those targets are proportionate to the population composition. Does she refrain from doing that? She said there's a lot of outflow. I don't quite understand what she wants with diversity in the police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u32	I believe that 12% to 16% of Dutch people have a migration background, so that should be a target. I can imagine that it is a little more in certain cities and that you want to be a little more in the police force, but Mrs Özütok almost made it seem as if 52% of police officers would have to have a migration background. That seems bizarre and totally unnecessary to me. It seems that a policeman with a migration background should be the one who deals with the target group, but that's absolutely not the way it is. I can imagine that we want young agents with a migration background or origin, for example a Moroccan policeman. I find it easier to put it that way, because that's how I did it in prison. I wanted examples from the Moroccan community. They were then group leaders and could be a good example for young people who were stuck. I thought that was fantastic, and I think it's fantastic for the police, but please let's not rush ahead and think that 52% of civil servants should have a migration background, because maybe that's the case in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u33	You're exaggerating. You're really overreacting. This is an example from Amsterdam. I understand from your long answer, in which you look at all kinds of other sectors, that you support the diversity figures and that, as far as the diversity of the police is concerned, you want to take a composition that is proportionate to that of the population as an objective. I heard you say that clearly, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u34	No, because then it's 12%, and that might be a little low. Even in the cities 12% seems a bit low. I imagine you'd want a higher percentage there. I find the situation a little unclear: in Amsterdam 38% is flowing, the target is 25% and I have heard Mrs Özütok say that that is not enough. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u35	You may respond very briefly, Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u36	I understand that we agree that 12% is low and that a different percentage could be applied in the major cities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u37	Maybe. I wonder how these matters relate to each other and what the Minister thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is a great champion of more diversity in the police, because, as the annual report says: diverse teams are a source of creativity and innovation and have greater learning and adaptability, et cetera. It's a good thing the police are doing more work on that. Fortunately, Akerboom is determined to achieve results. At the same time, much remains to be done. First of all, we must ensure that the people who have been recruited remain with the police. This calls for a change in internal culture, because intolerance and bullying in the workplace are two of the main reasons why people do not feel at home with the police and decide to leave the police; Mr Van Raak gave a striking example of this. That means that half of the people who influx, when it comes to a diverse composition of the police, also pours out. The fact that criminals do not see the police as their best friend is fine, but also among groups of the population there is a lot of suspicion and hostility towards the police. We believe that diversity is one of the means of overcoming this suspicion. External issues such as ethnic profiling and discrimination must also be combated. I would like to receive a response from the Minister on the following points. At the moment, the police have temporary recruiters, who do virtually diversity. How does the Minister ensure continuity? Then it's not just about people who just got out of school banks, it's also about side-intromers. When it comes to the whole police force in the Netherlands, shouldn't a kind of diversity agreement be concluded, to recruit both men and women, both highly educated and low-skilled, and to recruit people from different backgrounds for the police? The police are constantly changing, not only because society is changing, but also because the kind of questions asked to the police are constantly changing. We believe that this might help, with external parties and education. I would like to hear a response from the Minister, in particular because that is my last explanation. We now often see a cat-and-mouse game played by the Ministry, the police themselves, the unions and the works council. There's some kind of inconvenience about the diversity policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u39	The debate was also a bit about the keynotes in the police, but the PvdA spokesperson does not go into that. Mrs Kuik has some very nice social questions for the Minister, but what does she think of what is happening at the moment? Does she think ladies with headscarfs can work with the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u40	There's a reason we've made it wider to diversity in the police force. I find the headscarf discussion almost obsolete again. The department has already said that it is not being done, the minister has already said that we are not going to do it. I have been closely involved in the 2011 Code of Conduct which lays down clear rules on police neutrality. I don't even see how a headscarf fits within that code. It is not something that is very fundamental to me, which I am very much opposed to, but I am not in favour of it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u41	The PvdA spokesperson says on behalf of the PvdA that the PvdA is against headscarves in the police. But I do hear a PvdA-Amsterdam, a number of council members and also a number of ex-Room members who may soon be adopted by the minister, such as Mr Marcouch, pleading for headscarves with the police. And he was sitting next to you in the room a few months ago. What happened after the election on the basis of which the PvdA made that turn? Should the PvdA sail a little to the right? Or is it the fear of the xenophobic right corner? What happened internally at the PvdA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u42	I was already here in 2011 when the code of conduct, also at the suggestion of PvdA ministers, was drawn up. So I am very straight and I ensure continuity when it comes to our position. On the contrary, I think it is very good that there is a discussion about whether or not a headscarf and what it can contribute to the diversity or recognition and appreciation of the police. I also think it's okay that sometimes people give it a slightly different color. But I represent the group's position here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u43	And the PvdA is against headscarves. So all those words from council members and ex-Room members and community actions to keep the Muslim community happy have actually been for nothing? That's kind of the game for the stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u44	I'm not here to keep people happy. I'm standing here making sensible decisions for the country. First of all... I have just said that I do not see how a headscarf fits within the code of conduct, which was very carefully implemented in 2011. I think it would be good if the Minister could reflect on that code of conduct, because there are not so many Members of Parliament who still have this code of conduct in mind. Second. As I said, it is not that I find mordicus that it is a bad thing that there is a discussion about it at all. I'm just making another assessment. We are also an open party with many different opinions. Mr Öztürk was once part of it, so he can imagine what it would be like to have an exchange of views. I'm sorry it's something else these days.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u45	Madam President. Diversity, space for differences and multicolor, that sounds nice. Policies that take that into account can have great added value. But if diversity becomes a dogma, it goes wrong. This is a risk that the SGP is currently signaling to the police, also in connection with the whole discussion about headscarves and everything related to them, including ethnic profiling. Is it really necessary to be arrested by a police officer of the same ethnicity? Of course, knowledge of a specific culture is important to better understand and, where possible, take into account. This also includes the fact that you might better understand that, for example, an approach that is a bit tight, that radiates authority and authority, is in some cases more effective than an attitude of: let's have a nice chat together. That is also the case with education. The SGP certainly sees the importance of the desire to have a more comprehensive corps in terms of backgrounds. However, when diversity becomes a selection criterion in itself, one always wonders whether the best candidate will be accepted in this way or whether there may be factors that will give someone who belongs to the right target group the preference. As far as we are concerned, ethnicity or diversity must not be used to clean up a careless procedure or to make concessions to the rightly high demands placed on candidates. The SGP prefers to focus on the lack of capacity of the police and on the workload of investigators, rather than on the lack of diversity. There is even talk of a police-free country. And talk to a cop in person. Every time I am amazed at the incredible loyalty you find with them, but also at the alarming growing disappointment about roster pressure and the lack of follow-up of certain things they know. That all leads to enormous disappointments. In the long term, this will also put the pressure on loyalty. Diversity is beautiful, but we think that the main focus should be on the capacity of the police. Diversity as a theme follows. The SGP appreciates the choice that uniforms are not adapted to, among other things, religious expressions, but in the meantime the Minister writes to the Chamber that policemen from all parts of the organisation want to be recognizable as lhbt'er. I'm surprised to find myself in the footsteps of DENK, but I'm still asking the question: isn't this contrary to the code of conduct on lifestyle neutrality? And isn't that even more true if there is even permission to participate, in police uniforms, in events like the gay pride? The SGP does not consider this to be appropriate to the premise that there are no visible expressions of any lifestyle. On the contrary, it undermines the status of authority required by the Code of Conduct and the neutrality and security of the police function. Finally, I would like to ask to what extent the policy on ethnic profiling might be negative. It is quite easy to say that a white policeman is ethnically profiling when he picks up an ethnic minority. There are too many examples of this. I am not going to go into the question of whether that is right or not; I am going to leave that alone. But how do you prevent cops from being extra reluctant to deal with crime among immigrants? That would also be a very undesirable form of ethnic profiling, for several reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u46	So much for the first term of office. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr. Chairman. The reason for the debate is the debate that has re-emerged about the wearing of headscarfs or other religious symbols in the police. An important issue related to this is the desire and need to make the staff of the police more diverse in many respects. In 2011 agreements were made on the wearing of religious symbols. Mrs. Kuik rightly pointed that out. As far as I am concerned, these agreements still have their full value. If we in the Netherlands choose a uniform for a particular occupation, we do so because we want it to be neutral. That applies to the police and to the judiciary. We think this is so important that we stop releasing people in the choice of their clothes. We want those who represent the Dutch state to radiate in difficult situations and in difficult decisions, neutrality and authority. That is a very sensible position, which I wish to maintain as a minister. At the same time, I think that an organisation such as the police should, to be honest, ensure that it has sufficient diversity in its home. When I was Minister of State, I was responsible for the pursuit of 30% women at the top. We have taken measures to this end, and we have achieved that. In addition, at that time I sent a letter to the Chamber about the importance of more flow, more diversity and more exchange, because I think it is crucial for every organization, whether it is my own ministry, the police or the state service as a whole, that there should be a link with developments in society. You have to stop your organization from getting older. You have to avoid inbreeding in your organization. And you have to stop having only one type of person there. This diversity relates to the cultural background, which is a spearhead of this debate, but also to more things, such as the male-female relationship. One of the first things I was wondering when I was responsible for the state service and looked at the profiles of the Rijkstrainees was: do we also hire people who have a beta final exam package? I also like it when people can add and subtract a little bit. I have nothing against lawyers. I'm a gamma myself with just a beta final exam package. I also think that diversity is very important. This is therefore also very important for the police. Against the background of these general notions, I shall deal with the various questions asked. Following the statement of the Chief Constable, Mrs Helder asked whether I think there would be room for discussion about religious expressions in the uniform in the future. If we, as a society, choose to demand a uniform in a particular profession, then we have good reasons for doing so; I have already indicated that. I do not need a discussion on this because these good reasons stand and stand. Mrs Helder asked whether there was a policy of preference. Mrs Tellegen also mentioned this. There is no preference policy. The quality requirements are paramount. There are no concessions to this either. But the moment you notice that your organization has a profile that no longer corresponds to the composition of society or that is at all unilateral, as I mentioned in my introduction, it is wider than just the cultural composition, and you notice that it does not change automatically in your assumption policy, then it is logical that you take additional measures. My job was to raise the percentage of women at the top. I've done it with great pleasure. At that time I indeed started a number of activities and programmes to ensure that this percentage went up. My predecessors did, but when I was responsible, I did. For we had these fine women in our house, but there were apparently some visible or invisible obstacles which did not automatically and not quickly increase that percentage at the top. The department notes that diversity is insufficient, along the lines of the cultural background, but also, for example, due to the lack of side-insurgents, financial expertise and ICT expertise. Then I think it is logical that targeted action should be taken to ensure that diversity does exist, without compromising quality. But you don't get there either by sitting on your hands, so you pay some extra attention to it along a number of routes. I think that's a wise choice. I answered Mrs Tellegen's question about the desirability of discussing the position on visible expressions of faith. She asked me how I was facing the Blue Talent training program. If someone fails admission to police training, there is the possibility of a second chance. That goes for everyone. If you find that the composition of your organization doesn't have the diversity you want, it's hard to sit on your hands. In this context, it is possible for people with a multicultural background to go through a support programme. This doesn't mean the demands are going down. It does not mean that these people are the only ones to have a second chance, but it does mean that we can see whether we can ensure that they meet the eligibility criteria with a little push. We are not going to lower the eligibility criteria. Mrs Tellegen also asked about the rate of achievement of the 25% target. She thought there were only five months left, but the 25% target is for the end of 2018. We are now at about 20%, so there is good hope with the Chief Constable and myself that this will be feasible. Mrs Tellegen also asked why additional initiatives are needed at all. I hope to have indicated that if you find that the composition of your organization is not what you want, you will not compromise the quality, but you will engage in activities to direct the organisation to the situation you want to go to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u48	Those six months I deduced purely from the Minister's letter, which states that, although this 25% will apply by the end of 2018, the Chief Constable himself would very much like to be at 25% in 2017. Now the VVD is not in favour of quotas at all. Targets are just a little less strong than quotas, but still. Hence my question: is this a serious ambition of the Chief Constable? Will he get this coûte que coûte? If so, how is he going to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u49	I will never blame anyone for having a higher ambition than had been said before. Again, I share the ambition of a more diverse police force. If that ambition is achieved already in 2017, Mr Akerboom and his people will get a big plume. If it hasn't been reached in 2018 and the formation is still going on, otherwise there will be someone else.I'm going to look at him very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u50	Of course, I share this ambition with everyone and I also know that it is high on the Chief Constable's agenda for reasons. I am concerned that at some point you can say about those targets: "I have to make it. I have to get it. At the end of 2017 is in sight and there is only so much left to do." That immediately brings me to my second question about Blue Talent. I think that's a very tricky one. I hear the Minister say, on the one hand, that he does not diminish the eligibility criteria, but, on the other hand, that he also supports people with a migration background who do not meet the first day. What about someone who doesn't have a migration background, who just didn't make it, but who really wants to work with the police?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u51	I totally agree that it's hard. In that the situation does not differ from the other example I used, that of women at the top. In my perception, there is an equal share of women with talent to men with talent. You can then conclude with each other: you know what, we do nothing. But if you don't do anything, the situation will probably be the same as today. Within the limits of no quality concessions, I think it is justified to make a number of additional efforts to achieve the result you want to achieve. And again, we have done this to women, and we are doing this to people with financial or ICT backgrounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u52	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Engelshoven asked whether there are sufficient opportunities for higher-educated people, another form of diversity, to flow through short-term training. There are now abbreviated training courses for influx into the police. The police are also looking to join a number of regular forms of education outside the Police College in order to organise accelerated influx. This can be done, for example, when it comes to financial expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u54	I would like some clarification on that point. In this question, I was concerned not only with those with higher education but also with those who already have a different MBO training, for example an MBO training in safety. Those people can also choose to join the police at a later date. It would be a shame if they had to do Police College for another four years, and that is why I asked if there is such a shortened route for MBOs. If not, will the Minister promote that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u55	I should dive in on that. The shortage is, frankly, less for MBOs than for HBOs, but I will still look into whether there is a separate programme for MBOs. I will reply to that question in the second time, if possible. Mrs Van Engelshoven also asked about the outflow. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked about this. This question was also raised this morning in the debate on accountability. No output figures are recorded according to ethnicity or level of education. The qualitative picture of traditional police officers and police officers is that the outflow is very low. In itself, this is perhaps a point to pay attention to in the context of diversity, because a healthy outflow also helps to increase diversity. However, there are indications that the outflow is a little higher among the groups we are looking for. This means that we must expect the leaders of the police to be able to deal with the other profile that the police organisation is looking for now, in addition to the traditional officer we will always need. Part of the programmes aimed at this aim is specifically aimed at the executives to ensure that they also retain the scarce talents. Mrs Özütok asked if I am prepared to discuss options that contribute to more diversity policy. I have already indicated that I consider diversity to be of great importance to quality without any concessions, and that I therefore support the programmes that have been put in place. What I do not support is what Mrs Özütok asked for, namely to investigate religious expressions in the police and the space for them. I have already indicated that I consider the choice already made to be very appropriate for professions in uniform: no religious expressions. Nor do I need an investigation, because its background is so obvious that an investigation will not yield anything in this case. Then Mrs Özütok asked me to go further into the targets. I have already indicated that the target for people with a dual cultural background is 25% nationwide from 2018. For the top of the police, the top 61, the chief of police strives for a wider diversity, not only in terms of a multicultural background, but also the proportion of women and side-intromers. He is right to say that we must also be more diverse in the summit than we are today. Mr Van Raak asked whether sufficient progress is being made on the cultural change that you need to ensure that the results are maintained. A comprehensive action plan has been drawn up to which a number of Members of Parliament also refer, but it requires a constant effort. The police have a proud, strong culture with a lot of good in it, but which also makes it more complicated than with another type of organization to make such a change. So this isn't just finished. We may also find disappointments, but the fact that Mr Akerboom regularly and with my support puts forward the importance of this issue also indicates that he is working on this cultural change. Then Mr Van Raak asked about Mrs Elatik's hiring. I assume Mr Van Raak understands that I do not personally sign the appointment of all 60,000 people working in the police force. Mrs Elatik's remuneration appears to be based on a contract for the hire of externals, which falls within the framework of contracts for the hire of externals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u56	Yet it is ridiculously much: €12,000 that is about as much as a minister deserves for a programme director, which also has a hint of friendliness. We have also seen in the last week what has happened in Amsterdam in the field of fêting and income. Something's wrong! Is the Minister prepared to take a broader look at how this fêtering culture originated in the Amsterdam police summit and how we can put an end to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u57	Those are two important things, but very different things. If someone is hired as azzp'er, then there is the maximum hourly rate, which is not entirely comparable to a salary of a minister or someone else, because azzp'er has to pay for all risks and insurance himself. What matters to me is that the adoption ofzzp'ers takes place within the rules that apply to them in general. And that happens, again, without me personally being able to control all those contracts in such a large organization. In addition, Mr Van Raak, probably following the reports this week on the persecution of senior police officers in Amsterdam, raises another important issue, namely that there is unfortunately reason to press charges. It will not surprise Mr Van Raak that I too have been very uncomfortable affected by this example of persecution and by any persecution or condemnation of police staff in connection with self-enrichment, corruption or leaks. I think that is a terrible thing, and that is why it is a good thing that we are taking a hard action. I only fear that the population is about 1% of saints, about 1% of villains and the rest of ordinary people. That comparison has been heard from me before. In every organization this is likely to be the case. I can't guarantee that things like this never happen to the police. However, we must use our procedures, the instruments of the rule of law such as the Public Prosecutor's Office and judges, to prosecute. That's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u58	We will discuss corruption in Amsterdam in greater detail. Otherwise, we'll take care of it ourselves. Let me return to the subject we are talking about: diversity policy. Someone is hired externally for €12,000 in the month. This must be an insanely important function, where insanely important work is carried out which is in no way indispensable for the police organisation. I would like to know from the Minister what this function is and why it is so important that, in addition, there should be a ministerial salary against it. We don't have to do that now, but we can do that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u59	What Mr Van Raak is now asking of a minister is to assess an individual contract with a corps. The term "micromanagement" is still not quite appropriate for that. It is important to work within rules. I understand that this is the case here. My knowledge of ZPP contracts leads me to say that you cannot just compare a salary of an employed person with the remuneration of azzp'er. But to judge individual contracts on a national level, that is a very good thing. The idea behind the responsibility of a local chief of police and a local triangle is that those involved can decide for themselves whether to accept people, both internally and externally, within the rules that we lay down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u60	I would like to have more of an opinion from the Minister on what is going on here. In Amsterdam, the police are in the line of fire. She has to do very difficult things there. How can you explain to a police officer in Amsterdam that someone is sitting on an agency for this amount to think a bit about diversity policy and about image? Do we really not think this is too much fun together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mrs Van Toorenburg asks me to take over the task of the local chief of police, namely to assess whether he wants to hire someone or hire them locally for a task he considers important. We find ourselves in an unworkable situation when the Minister makes individual decisions by Chiefs of Staff we have quite a few in the Netherlands to judge on a case-by-case basis. That's completely unworkable. How many times do I get to hear the pressure on the police? Mr Bishop also referred to this during this debate. If I have to ask individual chiefs how they work in individual appointments or hires, we will no longer be able to do our job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u62	And yet I keep saying that some things are inexplicable. To contribute to the police for such a sum and in such a construction in Amsterdam, I find really impossible. I am very sorry that the Minister does not want to judge this. Sometimes you have to check with yourself if you really want to do this within the police or if it's impossible to explain. Let it be said from the CDA group that I think this amount of money for this job in thiszzp-construction is total, but it is therefore totally impossible to explain to the cops who are in the line of fire every day!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u63	Since Mrs Fatima Elatik is not here, I think it would be wise to make a comment on this. She can't defend herself here. I have made contact with her for a while and I know that she is not responsible for diversity policy. I think it would be nice to report that here too, because she cannot do that here herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you. The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u65	Sure. I come to the questions put by Mrs Van Toorenburg. She asked me to confirm that all police officers must meet the same quality requirements. I fully confirm that. She also said that the national target for diversity based on cultural background is 25%. She asked whether it would be possible for an individual corps to apply a different percentage. My answer to that question is yes. That is actually in line with my answer to the previous question. It may well be that a local chief of police on the basis of his field of activity says: I want a different percentage in this area. The national chief of police then sends it in such a way that the sum of the amounts is close to that national percentage of 25. That's the kind of local customization I think is very sensible. If people are recruited with the necessary effort, and possibly with additional efforts, how is it ensured that they stay? Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Raak asked that question. I told you, police leaders are also really trained to handle diversity. They are also addressed to their ability to deal with various employees and to prevent these employees from leaving unhappily. Furthermore, a staff monitor is held every three years. In this we can see what is going on, for example, with the sense of safety and what the employees think of the way in which they are led. We can see that for the organisation as a whole, but also for each team. So through a number of routes we ensure that people who have been recruited with difficulty are prevented from leaving the organisation. Could it be that a job interview asks for political conviction? Mrs Van Toorenburg asked that question and joined with a question from Mrs Helder. But also the spokesperson of DENK asked this question. No, I find it very undesirable to be asked to do so. Here too: I have to admit that I am not in every job interview, so I can't quite guarantee that nothing ever goes wrong. But I find it very undesirable and very wrong to ask for political conviction. PVV members are welcome to join the police, as are people who vote for DENK or any other party. People who don't vote are welcome to the police, even though I always regret that. But also people who don't vote are welcome, and they don't have to tell them that they don't vote. Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked if Jan, Piet and Klaas would be welcome to the police. I don't know if exactly those three names were mentioned by her, but I think I'm in the neighborhood. Absolutely welcome. But the approach route is: guarantee of quality and neutral appearance. However, where you find that the police are not sufficiently diverse or insufficiently compatible with society, we will, if necessary, take corrective action. That's also kind of the definition of leadership and control. Mrs Kuik asked: would it not be good to conclude a national diversity agreement? There is a Charter Diversity. I do not know why that has been given an English name, but that is a statement of intent on the diversity of employees who sign an employer. I signed it at the time as Minister of State. The police also signed it. The national agreement requested by Mrs Kuiken therefore exists and has also been signed by the police. Ms Kuik asked about the temporary appointment of recruiters for the specific recruitment of side-instromers. The intention is that the regular employees for recruitment and selection should have and apply diversity to the retina. There are indeed temporary recruiters in the framework of the Force of Difference programme. These are available until 2018, as the 25% target covers that year. If you set a target for a given year, I think it is logical that you normally focus the use of people and resources on that year, because you have the goal that it is then anchored in your organization. That doesn't mean the attention should be gone after that. On the contrary, it must be a more logical part of what you are already doing. Mr Bishop asked: are we not going crazy? I hope I have indicated in my replies that I think it is right to pay great attention to diversity, without compromising quality, and that diversity can vary from region to region. It also depends on the area in which the corps operates. Mr Bishop specifically asked how I rhyme police participation in the Gay Pride with the principle of no visible expressions of lifestyle. The Gay Pride is a very Dutch, very Amsterdam holiday, which I can actually enjoy myself. I respect that Mr Bishop might do a little less. The essence of his question is: is that now contrary to the principle? No, in the uniforms, in everyday practice, a cop shouldn't have any sexual preference, either, because that's how we agreed. The fact that the police are taking part in a festive occasion is, for me, first of all, the category of "work should also be fun" and, secondly, the category of "shows that you participate fully in society." We had a debate here not so long ago on the abuse of homosexual sexual orientation. The issue was raised: do they dare to report it? At that time, I argued that it is very important that people with a homosexual background feel that they can report to the police without wanting people with a pink triangle or anything else to walk around on the police uniform.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u66	This sounds very liberal, but in my opinion it is a somewhat more complicated situation. If a police officer chooses to participate in a pro- or anti-Erdogan demonstration, is that allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u67	Not in uniform, but as a private person, yes. If anyone thinks that's a nice leisure, it's not against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u68	But why can't I do that in uniform? Then where's the border? At a time when we tolerate this in this way because we find the Gay Pride to be cheerful, does the Minister quite rightly note that from SGP angle there is something different about this than where the border lies? Why should a demonstration against anti-Semitism not be carried in a uniform manner? Why not with all kinds of other expressions, but with a Gay Pride like that? Then we're on a slippery slope, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u69	Trials are aimed at a political goal by their nature, so there can no longer be any question of neutrality. In the Netherlands, Article 1 of the Constitution, we treat people equally regardless of their sexual preference, whether they work for the police or elsewhere. Fortunately, we have room for a day like the Gay Pride. Agents may participate in the party, but it is not so that they may then walk around with a pink triangle or any other expression of sexual orientation on their uniform. In my opinion, that remains within the lines of the law as the agreement we made in 2011.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you. Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u71	I saw, and I found that very cheerful, that you did all the interruptions in threes, so I thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u72	Well, let's go! Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u73	I understand that if a policeman puts on an orange pin on King's Day, he gets to join the party in uniform. I think it's just a weird story. I would like to point out that we are running the risk of this clouding and of calling into question clarity and clarity. I don't think we should want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u74	I think that was a statement by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u75	Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u76	I had the same impression, although Mr Öztürk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u77	I see that the Minister has neatly turned off all the groups. The fourth spokesperson was from DENK. The Minister did not reply to that contribution. Perhaps the officials have overlooked this in support of the Minister. I would ask you to do so in the second term and to include the following question. We've read the program Power of difference. You can read it quickly; they are two A4's, a bit more than the PVV program, because that was one A4's. The question is whether this minister with two A4's program can address such an important item for our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u78	And you asked this question in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u79	I am sure that I have answered the question of whether there can be a question of political conviction. I am sorry, I did not have this question ready, but I will answer it now. From the bottom of my heart: I hate piles of paper. Really, you can't make me more unhappy than you can by capturing what you mean in such a pile. Then you probably don't remember what you mean. I think we know very well what we're talking about here. We want the police to join and move along with the composition of society and to take the necessary measures where this does not happen automatically. You can do that on one A4's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u80	For the sake of clarity, this question was not asked in the first term, so you have not overlooked anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u81	Oh, well, then I answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u82	I didn't say that either. I have said that this question can then be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u83	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u84	My point is as follows. When it comes to jihadism, the word they came up with here, we have research, programs of hundreds, thousands of pages. When it comes to racism and xenophobia and the approach to ethnic profiling, and when it comes to diversity, you come up with two little A4s. That's out of balance. Do you really want diversity in society, or do you say: I have to do it and I have to show that I'm doing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u85	I think the equation is crazy. Unfortunately, there is a serious threat of jihadism, in which real human lives are at stake. We are also taking serious action against this. There, too, that does not lie in the amount of pages. That is a subject of such a threat and such a seriousness that I find the comparison with the number of pages that we devote to this equally important subject completely flawed. I leave it entirely to the responsibility of DENK; in fact, scandalous!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u86	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u87	The threat of racism that you do not want to see and the threat of xenophobia, which we experienced in World War II, which you do not want to see: if you say that this comparison does not work, then I think you should really consider your work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u88	Through the chairman, remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u89	Yes, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you. I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u91	I think this is very misplaced. I think this is really misplaced. I also find the comparison with World War II very, very misplaced. No, I think it's really wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u92	We are therefore ready for the second term of office. Speaking time is one minute per group. That includes filing motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u93	Then I'll make haste. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. He has clearly said that it is very undesirable to ask about the political preference in the application process. In fact, that violates the law. But it really happens more than once. I get a lot of e-mails about that. These concerns remain, therefore, despite the Minister's clear response. There is also concern about another issue. The Minister makes it very clear that he does not need to discuss the head cloth in the uniform, with reference to the code of conduct. The Minister certainly has a point there, but I am sure that it will turn up again, especially since Chief Constable Aalbersberg has said that he is sticking to his point of view. I therefore believe that the next motion should be tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Code of Conduct on lifestyle neutrality requires the police officer to adopt a neutral attitude in the interests of his authority and neutrality;]] [[considers that the police officer should therefore refrain from expressing, adding and/or adorning the uniform, as previously decided by the then Minister, the Central Organized Police Consultation and the Corps Management Board;]] [[Considers that the self and/or co-organising of fortar meals, the authorisation of Islamic symbols on or in the uniform and the conduct of discriminatory personnel policies is contrary to this;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the corps leadership to cease such activities immediately and to respect its own code of conduct,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-712]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u94	You may ask a question about the motion, but do not repeat the debate, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u95	Thank you in advance, Mr President. It's the fortifications that matter to me. Is the PVV against Christmas dinner, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u96	We are opposed to this, in the sense that the police must maintain authority. At the beginning of my speech, I made it clear that the search for connection in this way is not part of the two legal tasks of the police. I quoted the eitar meals because they are tweeted endlessly about them and because many people are deeply disturbed by them. That is not to connect; that is to bow down to an ideology that is not appropriate in the context of the neutrality I have always maintained, not to go along with the victim role that Mr Öztürk sometimes takes a little bit. That had to be said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u97	Only if it is really about the motion, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u98	I would like to ask the PVV Group whether it wishes to change the motion in such a way as to include 'iftar and Christmas meals'. Then she's honest, then she's not hypocritical and then she's in favour of police neutrality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u99	Are you going to vote for the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u100	I think that was a question to the PVV and not to the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u101	That was a joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u102	I'm not changing the motion. Mr Öztürk has to deal with the explanatory statement I have just given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u103	Mr. Chairman. Careers in the police force are based on what you can and not on who you are. It is good that the Minister has reaffirmed that principle here today. It is also good that he has indicated that the code of conduct is fully respected and that there is no room for religious expression in the police. At one point, I'm not entirely satisfied. That's the Blue Talent pilot. The VVD simply doesn't think it's fair to all those who just didn't make it that first day and who don't have a migration background. It's called a "preferred policy." I'm gonna keep having trouble with that. I can't see it any other way. Is the Minister prepared to indicate how the pilot is going to proceed and when it will be evaluated? You can do that in a letter; you don't have to do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. D66 welcomes the fact that the Minister here has firmly endorsed the importance of a diverse police force, obviously within the limits of quality and neutrality, which we consider to be very important. I am pleased that the Minister has shown ambition on this point, because he says with Mr Akerboom: if the targets can be met earlier, please. We are pleased with that. I am also pleased that the Minister says that the Blue Talent pilot helps us to increase diversity. I would ask him once again: he was not quite clear on this in his response to the question whether it would be extended. It's just like the way we get more mbos on the HBO and with which the influx into the pabo increases. In other sectors, too, it is very common to take people by hand in places where you want more diversity to overcome barriers. I was not quite satisfied with the answer to the question about shortened training paths of people with, for example, an MBO background, which allows you to address a wider palette in the influx. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the composition of the police organisation can still be more diverse according to training, gender, ethnic background and orientation;]] [[Whereas the future scope for police personnel can be used for this purpose;]] [[Whereas, instead of standard four-year police training, a reduced training course or switching programme may attract more interested parties for a job with the police;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for the Police College to offer reduced training pathways to people with a certain (pre-) training so as to be able to be trained to "blue" through an accelerated course,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Engelshoven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-713]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u105	Mr. Chairman. Diversity is not only achieved by organizing an iphara meal once a year and with a few colourful photos and two A4's program proposals. Diversity is achieved through action. Diversity is achieved by standing behind the people who also want to look diverse. Neutrality is not determined by your clothing, faith or appearance. Neutrality is determined by your actions. In order to do that, I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wearing religious expressions such as headscarves, tassels and cross-signs under the Code of Conduct on lifestyle neutrality for police officers in function is prohibited;]] [[believes that everyone should be able to express their identity within the limits of the law and that diversity in the police force should be increased;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the code of conduct on lifestyle neutrality is adapted in such a way that religious expressions such as headscarves, yarmels and cross-signs for police officers are allowed to function,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-714]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u106	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering the questions. I would also like to thank the Minister for making a great deal of work on the diversity of police forces. When it comes to seeking social support and the answer to the question of whether that social support is needed, my group very much needs a little more insight. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the divided reactions to the conduct of religious expressions by police officers indicate that an understanding of the social basis is desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to provide for a study of the public support for the conduct of philosophical and religious expressions by police officers and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-715]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u107	Mr. Chairman. I was able to satisfy Mrs Helder in part with my answers, but she has tabled another motion in respect of item No. 712. It concludes as follows: considers that the self and/or co-organising of fortar meals, the granting of Islamic symbols on the uniform and the conduct of discriminatory personnel policies is contrary to this, and calls on the Government to instruct the corps leadership to cease such activities immediately and to comply with the code of conduct. This motion assumes that, among other things, the police are pursuing discriminatory personnel policies and allowing Islamic symbols, and that is not the case. This motion, as formulated, I must advise against. Ms. Tellegen asked for an evaluation of the Blue Talent pilot. I'll be happy to give it to the Chamber. It seems to me most logical to do so in the course of 2018, because then we get an idea of achieving the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u108	And your judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u109	It's not a motion, it's an oral request. I'd like to do the same where possible. Mrs Van Engelshoven asks if the pilot Blue Talent will be rolled out wider. It seems logical to me that this question should be included in the evaluation. The Van Engelshoven motion in part No. 713 calls on the government to "examine the possibilities for the Police College to offer reduced training pathways to people with a certain (pre-) training so as to be able to be trained to "blue" through an accelerated pathway." I consider this to be a policy support, so I leave it to the Chamber to decide. The Öztürk motion in part No. 714 calls on the government to ensure that the code of conduct on lifestyle neutrality is adapted in such a way that religious expressions such as headscarves, yarmels and cross-signs are allowed in office for all police officers. I advise against that motion, because of the great importance of a neutral appearance of government officials in uniform professions. Finally, the Özütok motion on item No. 715. It invites the government to provide for a study of the social support for the conduct of philosophical and religious expressions by police officers and to inform the Chamber of Representatives. This also applies to the fact that I find it so undesirable that people on behalf of the government should have a neutral look that I do not need an investigation into it, so I also recommend this motion. With this, I hope to have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-9.u110	This brings us to the end of this debate. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, the MPs, the messengers, the officials and the people in the public gallery.
