ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. If slaughterhouses had glass walls, we'd all be vegetarians. Animal rights activists have made undercover recordings in a Belgian slaughterhouse where, according to reports, Dutch label and quality butchers buy their meat. The images show that animals are being put to death in the most horrific ways. They are kicked and beaten into the carnage, pulled to their ears or their legs and worked with currents. Numerous pigs are raised alive and their throats are cut unsed, after which some animals only find the drowning death in the hot tub. All under the watchful eye of vets. The question to the Secretary of State is what he thinks of the footage. What does he think of the incredible animal suffering that takes place in a slaughterhouse where the meat ends up with Dutch butchers? Is he prepared to take measures, both with regard to imports and in Dutch slaughterhouses? Is he willing to go to camera surveillance in all Dutch slaughterhouses? What does he think of the fact that the boss of the Dutch Food and War Authority finds it necessary to send soothing messages to the world that it is not so bad in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am in this Chamber for the first time in a new composition, unfortunately on a sad subject. The images that showed up last week about the slaughterhouse in Tielt in Belgium were horrible. There were horrible abuses on display. I thought it was literally nauseating. In doing so, I answered Mrs Ouwehand's first question. Things happened there that shouldn't happen. I find it incomprehensible that people who worked there were guilty of that or allowed them to happen. My Flemish colleague immediately intervened. He saw it as a very serious animal welfare incident. He immediately suspended the approval of the slaughterhouse in question and therefore closed it. It will not open, he has indicated, until there are clear improvements and he has the assurance that such a thing cannot happen again. So he's acted decisively. I believe that he has done so quite rightly. Mrs Ouwehand also asks what it means for the import of meat coming from that slaughterhouse. We have heard that meat from this slaughterhouse also went to Dutch butcher shops. The Belgian authorities are responsible for monitoring food safety in the case of exports. They have done extensive research on this. They have found that there are no concerns about food safety and therefore do not resort to the recall of the meat. They are the ones who have responsibility on the basis of European rules. Mrs. Ouwehand also asked about cameras. There has been talk in the past about cameras in Dutch slaughterhouses and making images of them available to NVWA. Of the eight slaughterhouses in the Netherlands which slaughter pigs, two cameras have been installed for internal surveillance. Not the other one or not yet. However, these two slaughterhouses have not so far been prepared to make the images available to NVWA. In view of the abuses that have taken place in Belgium, I would like to start again with the Dutch slaughterhouses, because I can imagine that, following the example of their Belgian and French colleagues, the Dutch slaughterhouses also attach great importance to transparency and proper control. Obliging camera surveillance is an option but it has legally proper hooks and eyes. I can imagine that the Dutch slaughterhouses would like to install their own cameras after these events, just as their Belgian colleagues have now promised. I can also imagine that the Dutch slaughterhouses now want to give NVWA access to the images in order to show that Dutch slaughterhouses have nothing to hide. I would therefore like to discuss this with the Dutch butchers. Finally, Mrs Ouwehand's question on the statements of NVWA. The NVWA explained how the supervision of the slaughter is carried out in the Netherlands. There are inspections of the animals at the time they enter the slaughterhouse alive, the animals are inspected after slaughter and spot checks are carried out on the slaughter itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Secretary of State appears to be moving towards mandatory camera surveillance. That's a nice step. I wonder why he only wants to talk to the abattoirs about that. We can see that France has already taken a step forward and is moving towards mandatory camera surveillance. I can imagine that the images should be made available to the supervisor in any case, but also to the public. I must say that the question about the way things are going in the Dutch slaughterhouses is being skilfully avoided by the Secretary of State. That is also how this discussion is always conducted. There are whistleblowers, there are undercover images that show that the animals suffer seriously in the slaughter process and then there are soothing words: it's all fine, there's a veterinarian there, don't worry. The Research Council for Security concluded that even in the Netherlands the sector does not hesitate to break the law. The most recent compliance reports following the so-called improvement process of the NVWA show that food safety may be monitored slightly better, but animal welfare is certainly not. It's about millions of animals a year. If 4% of pigs are slaughtered unintoxicated because the slaughter process and the stunning process are not going well, they are 56,000 animals per year. Then we haven't talked about the CO stunning to which they are exposed in sealed cellars. So we don't see any of that, but we do know that the animals suffer seriously, seriously. It's 14 million pigs a year. What's the Secretary of State's answer to that? Is it not time to say that slaughter is accompanied by brutal violence towards the animals, that it is time to substantially reduce the number of animals we slaughter, that there should be more peace and space in the slaughterhouses, that there should be camera surveillance and that the awfully high speed of tires should be reduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u4	In principle, of course, slaughter is not a pleasant process. We don't have to convince each other about that. If you want to eat animals, they have to be killed first. This is done in principle in the Netherlands in a way that protects animal welfare as best as possible, namely by ensuring that the animals do not receive any of it and that they are unconscious before they are slaughtered, except for the unsedated slaughter for religious reasons. So animals are intoxicated. That's what happens with the pig slaughter generally with CO. There are discussions about that. That is also why research is being carried out into alternatives to CO. Does anything go wrong at the slaughter? Yes. At the same time, the NVWA supervises as closely as possible. Mrs Ouwehand sees in the reports that the NVWA is getting better and therefore more and more often finds abuses, with the slaughterhouses ticking on the fingers and sometimes reducing the speed of the tyre or temporarily stopping the slaughter altogether. Mrs Ouwehand suggested that something goes wrong in 4% of pigs during slaughter. It is as follows: an error is found in 4% of the samples taken. That's a little different than 4% of pigs. So it's a lower number. I also saw this percentage drop by in a press release from Pigs in Emergency, but that is not the way it is. The NVWA is present in slaughterhouses to prevent abuses and to ensure that slaughterhouses comply with the rules. If this does not happen, the NVWA acts immediately. The NVWA is getting better and more stringent than in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u5	The Secretary of State does what his predecessors have always done, namely through semantic discussions covering the place with the cloak of love. The Party for Animals is a little done with that. If you look at the figures from the NVWA compliance reports, it turns out that in many cases things are not going well. If pigs are already intoxicated by this terrible CO method, which we have to get rid of and on which the cabinet has received a motion calling for an end to it, 4% of the samples still go wrong. You can pass that on with good decency to the entire pig population that ends up in slaughterhouses. Of 56,000 animals per year, the throat is cut unintoxicated. They are raised alive and then bleed to death. The Secretary of State refuses to face the seriousness of the situation. A debate will be requested by Mr Graus and we are going to support that request wholeheartedly. The last word on this has not yet been said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u6	But I do want to, because I do not think Mrs Ouwehand does justice to the situation. She calls this a semantic discussion, but the most important thing is that we start from the same facts. If an error is detected in 4% of the samples, it is quite different from that in 4% of the animals. Let us not work with alternative facts, but on the basis of the facts as they stand. They are already annoying enough; let me be clear about that. I therefore indicated that I would like to discuss the installation of cameras in all slaughterhouses in the Netherlands and the provision of the images. You can legally enforce that, but that's extremely complicated, because you install cameras inside a company. That's got a lot of legal hooks and eyes. It would be much easier to do so voluntarily. I think that the abuses that have taken place in Belgium give the Dutch slaughterhouses a great deal of reason to show that they have nothing to hide and to be transparent about how the slaughter process is taking place. That is why I want to discuss this with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u7	I have two questions, but first of all I would like to make a comment, because the people in the gallery and the people at home must be well informed. In the Netherlands millions of animals per year are consciously slaughtered, cut and torn open. I have tabled motions requesting that an animal first be intoxicated irreversibly, so kill it before ripping it open and slaughter it, but they are not even adopted by the Chamber. That's not right at all. I come now to my questions. I have been asking for unannounced checks for ten years and not only by someone from the NVWA who is intimidated. There must be an animal policeman, someone with police and criminal powers, preferably with a weapon or pepper spray, who can intervene if someone is intimidated. The checks must be carried out unannounced. Camera images can be manipulated. You have to walk into a slaughterhouse at different times of the day with an animal policeman or wife and an NVWA inspector. Then if it's detected...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u8	... there must be imprisonment and closure. Those concerned and those convicted must be banned from keeping animals for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u9	We have often talked about the unsedated slaughter, including with Mr Graus. He knows my views on that. There is no doubt that we will be able to talk about this for a short time. Mr Graus called for unannounced inspections. The inspectors of the NVWA are continuously present in the pig slaughterhouse. So we don't have to announce the inspection or announce it, because the inspectors are there all the time. They can walk in unannounced at any time in places where they are slaughtered, and they do. So that's what happens. Finally, Mr Graus called for criminal jurisdiction. Of course, the NVWA has the power to transfer to the D.A.'s office and she does. If she finds abuses as we have seen them in Belgium, they will be guaranteed to be passed on to the prosecution and prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u10	I ask a number of questions in one context. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that the director of the NVWA has spoken in turn by saying that there were no additional controls possible, while the Secretary of State is the political boss? I think that's a strange situation. That's one. Two. It is said that something is wrong in samples at 4%. I believe that this is at odds with the fact that the NVWA is constantly present in the slaughterhouses. I would expect it to be reduced to zero. Is there any indication that this will be reduced to around zero? In this case, can the Secretary of State guarantee me that this kind of thing will not occur, never occur in the Netherlands and that we will have a strict, 100% enforcement in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u11	The NVWA is an independent supervisor and must also be independent. It must therefore assess its own risks and determine how much supervision is necessary. I attach great importance to a model in which politics does not determine this, also in view of the discussions I have had in this Chamber over the past year. The tone was usually whether the controls could reduce the number of us here and there. I'm glad the NVWA can make their own choices. That's what I stand for. As regards the remark that the NVWA indicates that there is a great deal of control in Dutch slaughterhouses: I said that the NVWA is permanently present in the slaughter of pigs in Dutch slaughterhouses. It is very good that the NVWA provides clarity about the way it works in the Netherlands. Can I rule out the fact that Dutch slaughterhouses have ever failed? No, definitely not. That is why it is good that the inspectors are here. They have as little chance of doing so as possible and promote compliance with the rules. Besides, they act when something does go wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr President, I have to say that there is a contradiction in the reply of the Secretary of State. The NVWA is an executive organisation. This Secretary of State, controlled by the Chamber, is responsible for the enforcement of animal welfare, of existing laws and regulations. I would like to hear from this responsible Secretary of State, ready to go, that he can guarantee me that this will not happen and that he will put his implementing body to work in such a way that, unlike in those 4% of the samples, it can also be more than 4% of the total is in order and that abuses cannot be prevented. I just want to hear very clear words about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u13	Let me explain how it works with those samples anyway. A batch of an x number of animals is taken, an x number of times. In 4% of these batches one finds an error. That could be one animal per batch. Then you have a bit of a picture of what this figure is saying. So it's less serious than it looks. I still agree with Mr Grashoff that where things go wrong, that should not happen. He's asking me if I can guarantee this will never go wrong. I wonder whether he is asking the same question to the Minister of Justice, namely whether he can guarantee that no offence or crime is ever committed anywhere in the Netherlands. No, it's happening. That's what we have supervisors for. They should minimise their chances. Where they find abuses, they must intervene. They do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u14	The footage wasn't for me to look at. I had to quit. It was so horrible. Not only was I shocked, society was shocked and so were our pig farmers. I see now that this is damaging the image of the pig sector. There is no part of it. The problems do not arise in the case of pig farmers, but in a slaughterhouse in Belgium. What will the Secretary of State do to restore farmers' confidence in slaughterhouses, restore consumer confidence and reduce image damage for pig farmers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u15	I have just explained what we are doing in the Netherlands to minimise the risk of abuses in Dutch abattoirs. I have also indicated that where there are abuses there is more serious action than in the past. The Court has also seen this, for example in the report on poultry slaughter, where the NVWA is now applying a stricter enforcement policy, with results. It leads to fewer abuses and also more robust action at the time of detection of abuses. In my opinion, I have consistently argued in this Chamber over the last year and a half that improved animal welfare in pig farming, i.e. during the life of the animals, is an important direction for the entire livestock sector in the Netherlands. I will continue to do so as long as I hold this position. I think it is very important for livestock farming in the Netherlands to use this change. This will lead to increased consumer confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u16	"Know what you're eating" seems like the Secretary of State's adage. He himself says that he advocates camera surveillance in all Dutch slaughterhouses. When will the Secretary of State give a feedback of his talks with the slaughterhouses? Can we get a letter on that? If these talks do not lead to the desired outcome, can we expect legal preparations from the Secretary of State? Is it not an idea to look at animal welfare rules at least in the Benelux context? Could that be a ground for the withdrawal of meat? Could that be an additional incentive to ensure that these abuses no longer occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u17	As a result of the first question, let me say that we are entering into discussions with the slaughterhouses as soon as possible. I can imagine that, because of the current situation, people want to demonstrate quickly to society themselves that they are taking steps. Let us agree that before 1 May I will be able to reconnect or make some progress on these talks, and that we will be able to present in parallel how it should work legally if we want to enforce it. I have said a few times that it is extremely complicated. It makes it really much easier for everyone if slaughterhouses would do so voluntarily. Then I come to the second question. At the moment, withdrawal can only take place from the point of view of food safety. Over the past week, we have seen that many people would have liked to know where this meat all ended up. Of course, people didn't want to buy this meat. In this way they did not want to contribute to the profitability of this slaughterhouse either. We need to talk at European level about whether there can be other grounds to recall meat lots. I'd like to have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u18	The SP has also been horrified by the images on which these questions are based. The Secretary of State says he wants to talk to the sector about volunteer camera surveillance and the voluntary sharing of images with the NVWA. How's the Secretary of State doing on that call? You can ask with the hat in hand "please do this?', Or you can say, "If things don't go well, we'll still choose to go bad, and then we'll use that legal means, no matter how it goes." That's a different angle. I'd like to get a response from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u19	I have just explained that there are the necessary hooks and eyes at legal enforcement. This does not make it impossible, but in general social pressure is an even more effective means. I think that after seeing the images from Belgium, society expects Dutch slaughterhouses to take the same steps as they are now taking in Belgium, so they themselves take the initiative to show that they have nothing to hide. So I am not ruling out legal enforcement, but that is the hard way. I think it would be better for everyone to choose freely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u20	Yes, Chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u21	My ties to the SP fraction are very good. I would like to ask the following supplementary question. We are responsible for social pressure ourselves, but we are looking at the cabinet for legislation. When the Secretary of State says in answering these questions in the Chamber that it is all very difficult and that there are a lot of hooks and eyes on it, it also reflects on the way he is facing the sector. Instead, he could have put the fist on the table and said: you take care of it yourself or I'll take care of it for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u22	Sometimes it's also a matter of how you perceive the answers. This is about what I said. I said I could take care of it legally, but it would be easier and better for everyone if it were to be arranged voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u23	The Secretary of State rightly says that social pressure is of great importance for improving animal welfare and reducing animal suffering. I wonder why he does not say, in response to a question from the Christian Union, "Dear Mrs Dik-Faber, this is not about the image of pig farmers, but about serious animal suffering, about serious suffering from defenceless creatures, and we have the task of protecting them. Why is the Secretary of State constantly using all the avenues offered to him? I'm thinking of the NVWA who's trying to appease me and one of those questions from the Chamber. Why does he not dare to say here: it is indeed going to be quite rough in the slaughterhouses and we have a great job to do to protect these animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u24	Because that is what we are doing, both with the regulation and with the monitoring of compliance with it. All this is aimed at reducing suffering as much as possible. If everyone obeys the rules exactly, they will. Unfortunately, the fact that things are not always going well is a fact. This means that we need to reduce, as much as possible, the possibility of abuses, with as much monitoring as possible and as much presence as possible. We must ensure that at least we do not think about doing this kind of thing consciously, as we have seen in Belgium. We need to ensure that strict action is taken, precisely in order to protect animals. We consume animals. That means they must also be slaughtered. Then it is also our duty to ensure that they suffer as little as possible. That is what the rules and supervision are aimed at, and that is what I have been committed to, from the first day on which I am fulfilling this function.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u25	The figures in NVWA's compliance reports on the monitoring of animal welfare show that animal welfare has deteriorated, as far as animal welfare is concerned in slaughterhouses. The Secretary of State shakes "no," but we can just read that back. My main question is: if the Secretary of State believes that social pressure is important and that transparency is important, is he prepared to impose cameras, for example in the CO cellars? They are legally permitted: that is the way we think we can intoxicate pigs. It would be good if we could all see what happens to those animals in a legally permitted closed cellar full of CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-28-tweedekamer-2.u26	Then I come back to the point I was just talking about with Mrs Ouwehand. I think it is right that she sometimes raises her concerns, but she should not say that compliance reports show that things are getting worse. No, the NVWA has gone much more intensively over the past year. That's exactly what the cabinet promised the Chamber. The NVWA thus also brings much more into the picture and therefore also takes much more action. That was also exactly the agreement between the Chamber and the Cabinet: monitoring and enforcement would be stepped up. So that's what happened. This is reflected in compliance reports. That means the NVWA is doing its job better, just like we agreed. I think I have said enough about the cameras. I'll get back to you on that as soon as those conversations are over.
