ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Remco Bosma, on behalf of the VVD Group, to repeat the well-known rules of the game: two minutes' speaking time including the submission of possible motions, which are preferably short and concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. The general consultation on telecommunications has already been a month and a half ago. In the meantime, a number of things have happened which I should like to mention briefly. For example, the Minister has decided to help around 800 schools build fast internet. My compliments on this commitment. Let us hope that many schools will make use of this scheme. In addition, a draft text has been prepared on the scheme for the disposal of unused cables. I have another question about that. What's this arrangement gonna look like? Finally, I would like to talk about regional orientation. There are still many concerns in the sector. The struggle between two parties keeps everyone in their grip. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, in the long term, radio broadcasting is only intended to take place via DAB+;]] [[noting that a licence granted to an FM transmitter by means of the mandatory coupling is now also the basis for a DAB+ transmitter;]] [[Whereas the permit condition for regional orientation, provided that the FM transmitter range was the norm, no longer corresponds to the range of the DAB+ transmitter and therefore this permit condition becomes obsolete in the long term;]] [[Whereas regional focus can currently be abused by market players in their competition with each other and this is not in the interest of the listener;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate in the Strategic Note to Broadcasting Distribution that the regional orientation requirement in the transition to digital radio can completely disappear,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Bosma and Mr Oosenbrug. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. Like Mr Bosma, I have heard from various quarters, from various radio parties, that they are seriously concerned about the way in which the law, the rules, are enforced by AT, Agency Telecom. I have therefore been more informed about the situation, because I feel that the Chamber should listen carefully to the signals it is getting from the market. However, I would also like to make it clear to the report that there is no way in which the Telecom Agency is dealing with the problem in an unacceptable, discriminatory, non-knocking, strange or unfair manner. I understand that market players themselves are very confused. I can very well imagine, at least from my position here behind the cathedral, that they are being called upon again to get out well with each other. I do not yet know whether I can support the motion, and I have yet to read the motion, but I wholeheartedly endorse Mr Bosma's call to the Chamber to consider the criteria for regional radio as they appear the next period after a possible auction. A new Chamber will have to do what you and I are no longer in, I say to Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u4	Mr. Chairman. In view of the AO and the concerns and expectations of the radio sector and the black book that has been offered to us, I would also like to make the following motion on behalf of my colleague Remco Bosma of the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2011 and 2013 the Chamber has been committed to improving relations between the Telecom Agency and the radio sector;]] [[Whereas, following an initial period of improvement, the situation is now deteriorating and unnecessarily Juridised, leaving dossiers such as regional orientation, helicopter measurements or network improvements unresolved;]] [[Whereas a solution to these issues and standardisation of relations is urgently needed, including with a view to digitisation and innovation in the radio landscape and the necessary ether space;]] [[Calls on the Government to resume the dialogue between the radio sector and the Agency with ambition and to use the next six months to arrive at concrete solutions that will be useful for both the sector and the Telecom Agency;]] [[calls on the Government to establish, within a period of 12 months of today, a normalized, dejuri-dated and adult supervisory relationship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Oosenbrug and Mr Remco Bosma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24095-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u5	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma asked about the unused cables. This subject has been under discussion for a while between the Minister of I and M and me, because we wanted to get to the bottom of this matter before we took a decision on it. We've come to an agreement. We then drew up a legislative proposal for the implementation of a directive on broadband cost reduction. This is a directive of the European Community which aims to create a great deal of telecommunications infrastructure in Europe and to reduce costs. We need to implement that directive. The bill to do so has recently been accepted by the Council of Ministers. It is now before the Council of State for advice. After that advice we will re-examine it in the Council of Ministers and then get it to the House of Representatives as soon as possible. In advance of that, I can say that it is moving in the direction that the obligation to tolerate unused cables will not lapse until a specific request for clean-up is made. It is now regulated that such cables should be cleaned up after a period of ten. Often these cables are not in the way or can be used again. We are waiting for a request to be made and only then will the obligation of tolerance lapse and the cables will have to be cleaned up unless something better can be done with it. So that's all in the bill coming to the Chamber. We will discuss it in detail. I'll come to the motion in part No. 411 by Mr Bosma and Mrs Oosenbrug. It calls on the government, in the strategic memorandum on broadcasting distribution, a note which still needs to be made, to completely abolish the regional orientation requirement in the transition to digital radio. It's a bit of a typical thing. Normally, the cabinet first draws up its mind and discusses a note prepared by one of the directors. The cabinet then adopts that note and offers it to the Chamber. Depending on the consultation with the Chamber, application and implementation will be carried out. Now it is said in advance by the Chamber on a section what needs to be done and what needs to be written in that note. If we switch to digital radio, a new situation will arise. It is quite possible that this regional policy will then lapse. I think that is probably the case, but I would like to take a look at it in its entirety. will be established and presented to the Chamber. If I can keep that space, which we as a cabinet must have, if I can explain that this motion reflects the current view of the Chamber as a signal to the Cabinet, but that the Chamber realizes that we have to take responsibility for the note ourselves, if Mr Bosma and Mrs Oosenbrug want to give that explanation of the motion, then I can leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u6	That lenient explanation needs the consent of the author, because there is something else in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We need to focus on the text. I can agree with the explanation given by the Minister to the motion. We indicate that developments are moving towards digital radio and that this will eliminate regional focus. That should not be a straitjacket in the transition process. If that's the message that's being picked up, that's fine with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u8	Does that also apply to the second signatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u9	In this case, I am prepared to go along with the words of my colleague in the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u10	Then the "judgment chamber" remains standing, with a shared interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u11	Mrs Gesthuizen has not distinguished herself in her ten-year career in the Chamber by blindly following a ruler and approving everything the Telecom Agency does. It has said that it believes that the Telecom Agency, a regulator who also has the task of monitoring the rules we have established here, is doing so in a reasonable way. It shouldn't be any different. A supervisor is there to make us talk here for nothing. We make rules with each other. That is what we do carefully, we discuss it, and then we come to decisions. We'll record them, then they'll be in the First Chamber, then the Council of State has already advised on them. In this way, something has been achieved in a democratic process, and that must be respected. To check that, we have a supervisor, and we have to let that supervisor do his job. Of course, the supervisor has an interest in having good relations with the field he has to supervise, but the relationships must be clear. The parties in the field must do what has been democratically decided and behave in a reasonable manner. The regulator should ensure reasonable compliance with the rules. I have the impression that the Telecom Agency is doing so. Mrs. Gesthuizen has the same impression. We have received a motion from Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Bosma. They state that the situation is deteriorating again, leaving files such as regional orientation, helicopter measurements or network improvements unresolved. I don't think they'll remain unsolved. It's files that are clear. Authorisations have been granted where requirements have been imposed, often on the basis of what has been proposed by the licence applicants themselves. There are provisions about the power with which you are allowed to broadcast. And compliance with this must be monitored in a sensible manner. All these things are clear at some point, and then they must be respected. That needs to be monitored. The motion states that the improvement of relations is urgently needed. I think this is a field where different interests live, where one is in competition with one another and where one is also used to communicating very directly with the House of Representatives. This is also reflected in the involvement of the spokesmen here in the debates. As a whole, we have to stand together to ensure that what we have laid down rules are complied with in a normal and reasonable manner and that they are monitored in a reasonable manner. That's what the Telecom Agency is for. The motion states that the government should resume consultations between the sector and the Telecom Agency and that it should use a period of six months to arrive at a concrete solution and a standardized, dejuriated and adult supervisory relationship. In my view, there is a normal supervisory relationship and the Agency Telecom is right to do its best to ensure that the field is handled in a reasonable manner within the margins it has as a supervisor. I will be happy to continue to work with them to ensure that it stays that way and that we actually solve problems that arise and that we can solve. The purpose of this motion, however, is to ask for something that I think is already there. The motion is therefore unnecessary in my view, which is why I advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u12	There was indeed a nice news item on the Agency's own website. I also take more information than just information from the sector. What I understand from that is that if you look closely at the measurements, I'll bend it around to something that everyone understands better. You can drive 50, but you drive 50,2. That is now being maintained. My question is really very simple. Should we not discuss this first, rather than say: we are currently investigating 45 radio stations? Wouldn't it be better if you started talking and said, "You're driving a mile too fast?" Isn't that a better way of doing things than waving the legal stick? That's the question I'm asking in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u13	I do not have the impression that there is no consultation at all. I think there is very frequent consultation. I wonder whether the relationship between the conduct of consultations and the actual action where this is necessary is still reasonable. I want a supervisor to monitor the rules we have established. That must be done in a reasonable way. The field must also behave in a reasonable manner. I'll keep following that. If I get signals that things aren't going well, I'll perform. However, I have the impression that the Telecom Agency is doing this in a reasonable way at the moment and that there is a lot of consultation going on. So I do not need to create a normalized situation, because it is already there. There is also adult supervision. Let's be careful with our own rules and our own supervisor. I have therefore advised against this motion by Mrs Oosenbrug and Mr Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-19.u14	The vote on motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday.
