ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-5.u1	Go ahead, Mrs. Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-5.u2	Mr President, I was so focused on the content! Thank you for the favor here. Following the exchange in last week's debate, in which we discussed the motion and in which the Secretary of State indicated that he wanted to amend the motion in order to be able to implement it, I give a brief explanation of why I should like to move the motion in this way. I would also like to respond to what the Secretary of State said and make a gesture that I think we can get out together. In the course of the debate, the Secretary of State undertook to grant wage and price indexing to the Stichting Dienstcentrum GVO and HVO. There was still uncertainty about the rest. I would also like to say, on behalf of the other authors, that this motion is intended to regulate this too. We can mention a number of areas of coverage, namely the extra-legal powers of the Secretary of State or the lump sum. At the same time, I must say that it is no use in this Chamber to put all this very precisely in the operative part of a motion. That's why I'm not adjusting the motion. I'll give the Secretary of State direction. After all, he knows best where to find resources within his budget. With this explanation, I believe that the motion that has already been tabled can be voted on and I do not need to table a new motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. The debate on the legislative proposal has been reopened, because there is now a short third deadline. Is there anyone who would like to speak further? That is not the case. Then I'll give the government the opportunity to respond in third term. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Education, Culture and Science. You will have to go to the middle of the table, Mr Dekker, because that is where the cathedral is placed and the sound fortifies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-14-eerstekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. That's quite an operation for a very brief response from my side! Mrs Bikker is right when she says that I probably have the best view of where the room for cover is. Actually, I see only one possibility for cover: the lumpsum. If this motion is passed, I will look into it for cover.
