ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u1	This debate has been requested by the Member Graus of the Party for Freedom. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and the members. I would also like to welcome all the others who are looking at this 30-member debate in any way. I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I asked for this debate after again terrible images were shown on the Internet. In this case it was a Belgian slaughterhouse that also supplies meat to Dutch consumers. Fortunately, Minister Ben Weyts performed hard and immediately announced a closure. The secret camera images showed how the already fearful pigs were kicked and beaten massively, pulled to the ears over the ground and thrown alive in boiling water. Some pigs were still fully conscious and were swarming on the slaughter line before they bled to death. Since 2006, the PVV has put more abuses on the map during livestock transports to slaughterhouses. We filed motions for mobile killing stations, followed by carcass transport, which save animals from wounds, fractures, misery, pain and stress caused by long transports and abuses in slaughterhouses. We asked for permanent stricter control and enforcement during, before and after transports, up to the killing process, the slaughter process. The PVV submitted operative part in order to be able to deal harder with assholes within livestock transport companies and slaughterhouses and to be more severely punished by high fines in relation to the crime or imprisonment, followed by a life-long ban on keeping and dealing with animals or working with them. These are defenseless animals, which are often far more sensitive than all of us put together. In the case of structural recidivist actions by transporters or slaughterhouses, we call for the seizure of lorries or the closure of the slaughter line until the slaughterhouses are closed. It's possible in Belgium too. We should be able to do the same. In order to prevent threats, habitation and intimidation, we want an NVWA veterinary surgeon accompanied by an NVWA inspection officer. For the people at home: the abbreviation "NVWA" stands for Dutch Food and Service Authority. In the case of risky controls, such as during ritual torture, we have even requested the use of the animal police. Last Monday, in a letter to Pardoes, the Secretary of State announced that there would be camera surveillance following an approved motion from the Party for Animal Control. That surveillance would be voluntary, and it can't be. That wasn't the deal either. The Secretary of State also replied to a question from me that there is already permanent supervision, but the letter states that it is a question of permanent and non-permanent supervision. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. I would ask the government and the Secretary of State for Animal Welfare, who is here, to provide the proposed camera surveillance with a legal basis. For all I care, that is done in the Animal Law or in other rules based on that law. I would like to ask the government to ensure that the availability of the so-called closed circuit is not only for the benefit of television and camera images, but also for the benefit of the research carried out by NVWA and administrative law, but also for the welfare of the national police, the animal police. This concerns criminal law and administrative law. Finally, I would like to ask the government, and in particular the Secretary of State for Animal Welfare, to ensure that animal executioners in slaughterhouses are immediately dismissed, are punished in relation to the abuse, are fined to a huge extent and are banned for a lifetime from working with and keeping defenceless animals. That should actually happen to all animal executioners worldwide. I have spoken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. The images from the Belgian slaughterhouse were absolutely shocking. We need to prevent animal abuse. The CDA wants animal welfare to be monitored at the slaughterhouses. The Dutch Association of Varkenhouwers and LTO Varkenhouders rightly stated: "Our pig farmers deliver their animals in full confidence that trade and slaughter treat the animals with dignity." Compliance in the Netherlands is at 96 to 100% good, according to the NVWA's nalefmonitor. If there is non-compliance, could the Secretary of State comment on that? In which category of sampling findings can one speak of non-compliance? What is the 4% that has already been discussed during Question Time? That's the difference between the 96 and the 100%. The CDA considers it important to protect the privacy of employees of slaughterhouses and NVWA staff. It's not unimaginable that the images are going to be used to threaten them. We therefore welcome the proposed use of the images by the NVWA to improve the monitoring of animal welfare rules and the proposal not to disclose the images. This approach seems to me to be an example for the rest of Europe. How does the Secretary of State view this? In what way...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u4	You have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u5	But it's customary for me to finish my sentence. I've got three more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Graus has been standing there for a while, but I suggest that you conclude your speech first. After that, Mr Graus may intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I forgive you, Mr. Chairman. It's your maiden presidency. How does the Secretary of State intend to align the use of CCTV, the closed camera system, with the EU animal welfare platform? In addition, meat is also imported from outside the European Union. Would it be helpful to use CCTV and access the images as enforcement agencies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u8	Why fear? If you're good with animals, you don't have to be afraid. Does Mr Geurts agree with me that not only the NVWA, the administrative law, but also the animal police now also have to be able to watch the animal welfare officers of the National Police, the criminal law? The NVWA doesn't share everything with the animal police. That's been annoying me for five years. We've got to get rid of that skin. The NVWA shouldn't have a shell in the direction of the animal police.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Graus asks me if I am afraid. No, I have care. I just said that. I have made sure that those images are used to threaten people who work in a slaughterhouse. I get to pronounce that, and I do. There are also examples in the world of how this can relate. Then the skin between the NVWA and the animal police. I think the NVWA has more than enough handles to be able to act criminally or otherwise. The Secretary of State will also comment on it. I do not think it is necessary for an additional police force to be sent in that slaughter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u10	A follow-up question, because we do interrupts in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u11	There's a big difference between administrative law and criminal law. Sometimes you need to be able to take criminal action against the bastards who abuse animals and not just administratively. Inspectors of the Member and NVWA are often threatened and intimidated, but they do not dare to report it because they are afraid to lose their jobs. So they need help and assistance from someone with police and criminal powers, from someone with a baton and with pepper spray who can deal with those bastards on the spot if it happens and prevent those intimidations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u12	I think this is special. Let Mr Graus come up with examples. Where are the situations presented by Mr Graus in the Dutch abattoirs? What are the situations in which the police have to come to the rescue of certain officials? I don't know them. If Mr. Graus knows them, I'd love to hear them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Graus is being challenged to give examples, and I am therefore allowing a third interruption. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr. Chairman. I have been on our political group leaflet with predecessors of this Secretary of State. I've been to the Ministry, with whistleblowers, to pastors of this Secretary of State to tell you what's wrong. Unfortunately, I can't share everything in public. Those people confide in me to report it. I've brought in a lot of whistleblowers. For example, I once put the abuses in chicken slaughterhouses on the agenda as a result of a discussion with a former Secretary of State calling my door. That harassment is well known. People are intimidated everywhere. Conductors are intimidated and threatened, policemen, as well as boas and vets. That happens everywhere, all over the Netherlands. Those people need someone with police authority who can act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u16	This is the opinion of Mr Graus. It is Mr Graus' opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Graus, please do not speak outside the microphone. Mr Geurts, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u18	It is Mr Graus' opinion, and I shall leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u20	That there are whistleblowers, that's for sure. The fact that whistleblowers cannot always do their story in public is also a fact. My question to Mr Geurts was next. I was almost moved to tears when I suddenly heard the CDA speak about the importance of privacy. I almost thought, "God, we agree." But maybe the CDA only suddenly has concerns about the protection of animals. It is a justified point, but it is a bit one-sided. Does the CDA see and acknowledge that there are a lot of opportunities to visualize exactly what happens to animals, in transport and in slaughterhouses, without people coming into the picture or coming into the picture? Take the CO-intoxication of pigs. They go in a basement that nobody's with. That's where the CO is released. You can just film what happens to those pigs. There's no other person on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u21	I'm glad the moment the pigs go down and get drugged with CO, there are no people there, because they wouldn't survive. Mrs Ouwehand talks about the privacy of animals, but I did not mention them at all. I talked about the privacy of employees of slaughterhouses and NVWA. As a result, I have indicated that it is not unimaginable that the images are going to be used to threaten people. I'd like to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u22	The Party for Animals is often rubbed with ideas and statements that have not been made at all. I didn't talk about the privacy of animals. I talked about the remarkable fact that the CDA suddenly starts talking about privacy, when we never see the CDA fighting for it when it comes to protecting animals. Anyway, it's just as well a point. I would like to ask again whether the CDA is prepared to acknowledge that it is quite possible to film in this industry without people being identified. The hygiene rules are that people have to wear overalls and wear hairnets. If they show a mouth cap, only the eyes are in the picture. I do not know whether Mr Geurts has any sense of making people unrecognizable, but the whole outfit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Then we could challenge the Secretary of State further. The Secretary of State says: I do not assume that the meat industry has something to hide. Fine. Then let's show you as much as we can. Is the CDA Group prepared to recognise that this is at least an option, regardless of whether it wants it or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u23	There can be so much, but the CDA is not in favour of that. That's exactly what I just reported. I think the Secretary of State with the abattoirs has come a long way on this point. Don't let the rubber band stretch further, breaking it. There's just some potential. I'm trying to warn you that these images can be abused. I hope the Animal Party will confirm that in its contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u24	Mr. Chairman. According to the vets, slaughter is the most stressful moment in the life of a kept animal. It's no fun to be born in intensive livestock farming, to be unsedated, to be castrated unsedated when you're a male pig, but the vets are really convinced that the misery for an animal is the greatest at the time it's brought to slaughter. The Secretary of State said: I assume the meat industry has nothing to hide. And he has started to implement the motion of the Party for Animals on camera surveillance in slaughterhouses. Thank you for that. The current state of affairs is that about 90% of animals are slaughtered in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State has said that this should apply to all slaughterhouses. I also assume that is what is being asked for in the motion. It can happen voluntarily, and if it doesn't, it has to be mandatory. According to the Secretary of State, when will this monitoring actually be carried out? There are still questions about that. We have also asked to use camera surveillance in all European slaughterhouses. I've held a motion on that. The Secretary of State has said a few things about this. I would like to put that motion to the vote. I want this to be the official starting point of the Dutch government. What possibilities does the Secretary of State see for refusing to import meat on the basis of animal welfare requirements? We have the great task of improving animal welfare here in the Netherlands and of keeping everyone working in the sector to the rules. However, it cannot be the case that we cannot impose animal welfare requirements at borders. There are opportunities in this respect. I'll ask the Secretary of State to look into that. And I very much agree with Mr Graus that it should be much quicker to impose a restraining ban or a ban on animal trafficking for those who have broken the rules. The Animal Party has been advocating this for a long time. What about the introduction of a restraining order? So far, my contribution has been to check the rules we have agreed on. And I think we should make sure that happens. But there is also a very different plane, namely the way animals are treated, and what animals have to undergo; things that we all agree with here. Okay, the Party for Animals isn't okay with it, but a majority of the House is. There needs to be more tightening up of animal welfare rules. If the Secretary of State thinks he assumes that the meat industry has nothing to hide, then I challenge him to make images of those situations that look uncomfortable available to the public. I am referring to situations in the transport of cattle, to the catching of chickens, to the way in which chickens are stuffed in the crates, to the way in which they are delivered to slaughter, to the way in which they are hung by their feet on the slaughter line. It seems to me that images of that should simply become available to the public. For the romantic images used by the meat industry, I call the chicken in the grass, and even the smiling pig at the butcher's shop, seem to me to distort what really happens in the meat industry. Let's be honest about that. I think that would only help everyone, the animals, but also all the people working in this sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. Speakers before me have already said that the images from the Belgian slaughterhouse were shocking and that we all realized that this should not and should not be possible. The question was of course: can this happen in the Netherlands? That question could not be answered unequivocally. Yes, of course there is maintenance and control, but not in such a way that this can be ruled out. However, it is important that we do, also for the image of the meat industry itself, but first and foremost because of animal welfare. That is why it is good that this appointment is now made. It is worth complimenting the Secretary of State for having managed to reach an agreement with 90% of all slaughterhouses in a fairly short time. Nevertheless, GroenLinks has a number of questions. First of all, 90% is not 100%. What about the 10%? How's it built up? Why wasn't there a deal with that? Was it too shredded? Or were there companies or institutions that didn't want to cooperate? The latter would be interesting, because then you almost expect that there are risks, perhaps even above average risks. Can the Secretary of State inform us about this? We have recently had extensive discussions on a general declaration of binding. Can the Secretary of State consider declaring this measure, for which there is such broad support, universally binding? That way we can go from 90% to 100%, because that was the intention. It is good, also in the eyes of GroenLinks, that an agreement has been made that these images are not all accessible to the public. Yes, there is a lot to be said for making the procedure in the abattoirs clearer with images, but the GroenLinks Group thinks it is a confusion of methods to use something that is meant to control the enforcement of the rules also for public influence. Yes, public influence can and should, we stand for that, but not by confusing these two methods. However, GroenLinks does not believe that there can be a discussion about the availability of the images. In this respect, we do not find the letter from the Secretary of State sufficiently clear. The images are not automatically transferred to the NVWA, but at the same time the NVWA must have access to them. Can the Secretary of State explain to me what's going on? It cannot be the case that, in concrete situations, there is a discussion or discussion about whether or not the images in situation A or B should be discussed with NVWA. The position of the GroenLinks group is that these images should be made available at any time at the first request of the NVWA. Whether it be samples, risk companies or not, the NVWA must always get these images. Can the Secretary of State agree to that? As far as sanctions are concerned, it is, of course, a voluntary agreement. This means that there is always a bit of doubt as to what happens when such an installation suddenly fails for weeks and then, in case of incidents, it turns out that the images are not there because the installation did not function at the same time. Is there any possibility of sanctions? Could the binding declaration perhaps provide a solution to this? So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u26	I would like to ask you to conclude;'so far' comes at a good time. We are moving on to an interruption by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u27	I heard Mr Grashoff say that he does not want the images to be shared, but I know that Mr Grashoff has a high priority for education. Wouldn't it be a good idea for us children, perhaps in the eighth grade, to confront what happens to animals before they end up on the board?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u28	Yeah, absolutely. It sounds kind of crazy, but maybe we should check out a school class in a slaughterhouse. I think a lot of kids will come back with not very pleasant images of that. It is, of course, a fact that the whole of society is not sufficiently aware of the practice in slaughterhouses and what it generally means to eat meat in such quantities as we do. I fully agree with Mr Graus. But I stick to my point that a confusion arises when a means of enforcing the rules is going to be used for public influence. It also entails risks, for example with regard to the privacy and safety of employees of slaughterhouses. I take that very seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u29	Follow-up question by Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u30	It's more of a comment. I've always tried to get the subject of animal suffering included in education. We may be able to table a motion on this during the budget debate. I believe that children should know that. Nine out of ten people who go to the slaughterhouse or ride with the animal police for a day, stop eating meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u31	I haven't heard a question so I'm going to interrupt Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u32	I can imagine from the point of view of GroenLinks that you need to use different means for different purposes. However, if we stay away from the enforcement aspect for a while, there are opportunities to make better information available to the public about what is actually happening in the meat industry, while ensuring the privacy of workers there. We agree on that. But the Party for Animals sees possibilities for this. Would GroenLinks be prepared to display an open attitude towards the Secretary of State? I have just challenged him to explore these possibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u33	I think the Party for Animals and Green Left share that the way we deal with our intensive livestock farming and the mass slaughter of animals are not desirable. This raises many concerns, from sustainability aspects to animal welfare aspects and ethical aspects. There is certainly a need for a critical reflection on what is happening in intensive livestock farming and in slaughterhouses. I think we should pay attention to that. It is up to the public authorities to ensure that there is good information and information on this by any means. In that sense, I think we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u34	Follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u35	Fine, and thank you. I'm an honest man, so I'm gonna say right away that I'm using this interruption to ask the Secretary of State another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u36	You know I can't allow that. Well, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u37	I ask GroenLinks about the commitment of the Dutch government to at least have GPS checks on all livestock transports, whether that party agrees with the Animal Party that we now have to agree that this is just happening. If Europe does not succeed, this must certainly be done on the Dutch lorries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u38	We're in favour of GPS checks on cattle transports. So we share that view. If necessary, we will critically question the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u39	I just heard Mr Grashoff van GroenLinks say that fewer animals should be slaughtered in the Netherlands. Does he also want to go so far that there will be a quota in the Netherlands of the number of kilograms of meat that can be consumed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u40	No, definitely not. That would be some sort of wondrous dictatorial approach that I absolutely do not share. However, we have a responsibility to see that the amount of meat we eat in the Netherlands is too great for almost all the prosperous countries in Western Europe and for the US, where it is even worse than that, in the end, to sustain our globe in a sustainable way. All the analyses available indicate that. At the same time, we know that we are eating too much meat from a health point of view. In the sense of information, of sketching a good picture of what we are doing to each other, there is really still a world to be won. I would hope that the CDA will also take this into account, because we have a goal here that affects both animal welfare and sustainability and the economic model of our livestock farming in a positive way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u41	Follow-up question by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u42	I'm gonna keep going on that quota. What that leads to is that much less animals can be kept in the Netherlands. I actually hear GroenLinks say: there should not be more animals than are consumed in the Netherlands. We must not make any more money from it abroad, by means of export. Furthermore, we may end up in a system in which we become dependent on imports from abroad to the Netherlands. I take it GroenLinks doesn't want to go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u43	I think Mr Geurts has listened better than he is suggesting here. Because he puts three things in my mouth that I absolutely didn't say. I have tried to respond seriously to Mr Geurts' question whether or not too much meat is being eaten and whether it should be controlled by a kind of quota for meat consumption. On that last point, I said very clearly: no, that would be very strange. But if Mr Geurts asks whether there should be a restriction on the number of animals in the Netherlands, I say: yes, there should be, certainly. How far you have to go, depends on very far-reaching analyses of what is bearable in the Dutch situation. What can the Dutch territory, with its densely populated country, cope with its surplus nitrate and phosphate? At the same time, you could take with you a further strengthening of animal welfare and ultimately produce meat from which everyone can say: if it comes from the Netherlands, it is fair, good and efficient. That should be the trademark. The Netherlands should compete on quality, honesty and sustainability and not on quantity. The latter is happening right now. For example, in pig farming, 50% of all animals live cross the border to be slaughtered elsewhere, including in that Belgian slaughterhouse, while there is virtually no economic chain behind it in the Netherlands. That is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u44	This calls for an interruption of Mrs Lodder's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u45	I was sitting back listening to the little debate between Mr Grashoff and Mr Geurts. When I hear Mr Grashoff talking about honesty, I think he should also be honest about the consequences of the policy that GroenLinks stands for. Of course I understand that meat consumption has to go down according to GroenLinks' vision, but when no rules are laid down, it is the people at home who have to make a choice. The policy advocated by Mr Grashoff and others in this Chamber means that people at home will be dependent on slaughterhouses elsewhere in Europe, elsewhere in the world, for the piece of meat on their plate. That's the honest story. That's okay, but say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u46	That is not the honest story at all, that is the very unfair story Mrs Lodders is telling here. At present 50% of pigs bred in the Netherlands do not end up in a Dutch slaughterhouse, but in slaughterhouses abroad, such as those in Belgium, where sometimes there is less strict enforcement than in the Netherlands. So it's the other way around. When it comes to the honest story about what we consume in the Netherlands about meat, we are talking about information, about informing the public about their health, about how we should deal with sustainability and, based on an analysis of what the soil can carry in the Netherlands, a limitation of the size of the livestock. Let us be clear: I say this again once again in the pig farming sector, one of the biggest costs is the disposal of manure. So, when we could shrink that sector in the Netherlands, the manure disposal costs will decrease and thus improve the economic model of the sector as such. You can never leave that to the individual entrepreneur, but we as a government, in consultation with the sector organisations, should be able to arrange this. If you want to go to stable systems that are actually sustainable, that transition will also have to take place. You can run it right up. I also challenge Mrs Lodders to really think about a solid vision of the future that is both sustainable and animal welfare and contributes to the world situation on this globe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u47	A short follow-up question and also a short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u48	I'll do my best. The VVD Group certainly thinks along with it when it comes to sustainability. When we look at the vision of circular economy when it comes to the manure chapter, GroenLinks can really take a number of significant steps. Mr Grashoff does not do that because of all kinds of other opinions. That's okay, but don't tell me this is the fair story, but look what the consequences are. This wasn't a question, it was a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u49	However, there will be a short response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u50	This is an apert misrepresentation of Mrs Lodders. Whether she consciously does so or if she just didn't get into the thinking of GroenLinks, I don't know, but if she talks about the term circular economy, I think GroenLinks is the party that has given the most thought to this by far and has made very constructive proposals to move towards a circular economy in all branches of our economy, including agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you very much, Mr Grashoff. We now move on to Mrs. Lodders for her first term. She will speak on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr. Chairman. The undercover images from the Belgian slaughterhouse in Tielt were horrible. We have established rules in Europe to monitor animal welfare and food safety. Failure to comply with these rules is unacceptable and needs to be tackled vigorously. Addressing these abuses is the responsibility of the Member State concerned. Fortunately, the Belgian authorities have taken action. I must say that we are having a debate today on an incident in a Belgian slaughterhouse. However, this at least gives the impression that it is not good for the Dutch slaughterhouses either. I'm gonna distance myself from that. The controls in the Netherlands are strict. They are stricter than we have agreed in Europe. The Dutch Food and War Authority (NVWA) has introduced a new method of control for a few years. According to the NVWA website, tens of thousands of inspections have been carried out. It concludes that the rules are being properly observed. The Secretary of State has had talks with representatives of the Dutch slaughterhouses in recent weeks. One of the measures chosen by the State Secretary is camera surveillance in Dutch slaughterhouses. The VVD fraction is against mandatory camera surveillance in slaughterhouses. We can never rule out excesses or an incident like that in Belgium. There are also several disadvantages. I therefore have a number of questions for the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State is still talking about "voluntary supervision." What happens if an abattoir does not want to place cameras, for example because it wants to ensure the safety of the employees or from a cost consideration? What steps will the Secretary of State take? As far as the VVD is concerned, it will not lead to an obligation. The NVWA gets access to the footage. How's she handling this? Should each slaughterhouse draw up a protocol or will there be a one-sided protocol imposed by the NVWA? In what way is business involved? What about the costs at NVWA? Reading images will require additional capacity. Who will pay for this or what will the NVWA no longer do if she gets this job? Finally, I come to the most important point: the safety of employees in the slaughterhouse and the employees of NVWA. We're talking about permanent surveillance in the abattoirs, but what's next? During permanent camera surveillance, employees who do their work in good conscience will be captured on camera. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure their safety? How does he ensure that the images don't come into the hands of people who have bad intentions with them? I think about activist third parties or others. Is the Secretary of State prepared to stop his efforts if this is not adequately regulated first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u53	I don't understand what Mrs. Lodder's fear is. The Secretary of State stated in his letter of Monday that 90%, even a little more, would like to cooperate. These are in particular the big boys who are members of the industry organisations. They've got all these closed-circuit TVs. They'd like to share that with the NVWA. Those people aren't worried. Why should it not be compulsory if there are some slaughterhouses within that 10% that are about to refuse to do so? Or does Mrs Lodder want an uneven playing field to be created?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u54	That's exactly why I mentioned it. You cannot prevent an incident or an excess as we have seen in the Belgian slaughterhouse. Incidents or excesses are just gonna have to be tough on you. In the Netherlands, we have the Food and Waren Authority for that. Slaughterhouses may refuse to do so from a cost consideration or because the owner is afraid of the consequences for his employees. It's not that simple. However, just to be clear, we are talking about an incident in a Belgian slaughterhouse here today. Mr Graus has requested a debate on this. Because of the way in which we are now talking about slaughterhouses in the Netherlands, it seems as if it is all wretched and tormented and as if all slaughterhouses are working as they are on those horrible and really reprehensible images. I'm not going anywhere near that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u55	Then Mrs Lodders has really not followed the debates in recent years. Here too there have been abuses and here too there has been footballing with chickens. That all ended up with us. Will you stop talking about that? This is happening everywhere. Do you know what this is about, Mr President? It often has nothing to do with the director of the slaughterhouse, but with the fact that people are being taken out of the former Eastern bloc. That's where they have to invent the word "animal welfare." They have a very different frame of reference in terms of animal suffering or animal welfare. These people apply the last acts to such an animal, which has often had a wonderful life with our farmers or at least as little life as possible. I am concerned about the animal suffering; let that be very clear. If Mrs Lodder is to stand up for the slaughterhouses in this way, she must also ensure that they are all treated in the same way. If the big boys all say they're gonna join us, they've promised the Secretary of State, so should the little ones, because that's what I'm most worried about; you should know that quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u56	Then Mr Graus will also have to come up with a cost statement and a proposal to cover the costs of these small slaughterhouses. That is one of the considerations that could affect him here. I have followed all the debates here in recent years. I make work visits to several slaughterhouses every year. I'm talking to the people there and I'm talking to the people of NVWA. If there are excesses or abuses, they must be dealt with. For that we have the Dutch Food and Service Authority. Those people are permanently in the slaughterhouses. In fact, I have already made a point that a slaughterhouse cannot even start if the inspector has overslept and is not there; that can always happen. That's how it's arranged in this country. I would say to Mr Graus: go with me; then I would like to hear all the excesses he is talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u57	Mr. Graus, we're doing two-way interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u58	Something was said that wasn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u59	Then you may make a factual correction, but you cannot make any further argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u60	Yes, I'd like to make a factual correction. If Mrs. Lodders had visited Tielt, she wouldn't have seen this, just like the director didn't. It happens because there are no cameras.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u61	The reason why I don't visit Tielt is that we in the Dutch Parliament are not dealing here in the Netherlands with the slaughterhouse in Tielt. We are dealing with the Dutch slaughterhouses. That's where I go on a regular job visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u62	Mr. Chairman. Gandhi once said that you can read the level of civilization of a society from the way she treats animals. It is certain that the images of slaughterhouses in the Belgian Tielt, where pigs were kicked, beaten, electrocuted, drowned alive and in general severely abused - say, tortured, witnessed a great lack of civilisation. The fact that the slaughterhouse in question subsequently announced that it had large expansion plans makes it all the more painful. But it has already been said that we are not about Belgian slaughterhouses. However, the terrible images of the horror slaughter house led this Chamber to call on the State Secretary to commit himself to camera surveillance in all slaughterhouses in the Netherlands and to lobby for this in a European context, first and foremost to ensure proper treatment of the animals but also in the interests of the sector itself. The letter from the Secretary of State shows that he has been working with it fairly quickly, for which I am grateful. In any case, it is a gain that the sector, or most of the sector, wants to commit to camera surveillance throughout the entire route in the slaughterhouse and to providing access to the Dutch Food and War Authority. Moreover, the NVWA must have sufficient resources to be able to effectively control it. I would like to say quite frankly that the SP usually prefers legislation rather than self-regulation, because self-regulation over and over again shows that the temptation of evasion remains too great for someone in the sector. I would almost say that this is a fine challenge for the sector to prove us wrong, because if there are incidents, if the agreements that are being made now are merely paper agreements and if protocols on which agreements have been made are not respected, you will see us standing here with legislative proposals. But for the time being we can also say that at least a good step has been taken. And a nice addition to the next link in the chain: the cattle transport, on which there is also a lot to do. But we will undoubtedly be discussing this in the future. Another word about a small group that has not yet been mentioned here, namely the self-slaughtering butchers. That is a rather small group of entrepreneurs, who slaughter only a very limited number of animals in a non-industrial way. They are concerned that they will also be forced to invest in extensive camera surveillance. They have also written to the Secretary of State about this. However, this is a very limited group of about 100 entrepreneurs, which responds precisely to the growing demand of consumers for a transparent origin of meat from the neighbourhood, not from industrial chains with animals. As far as the SP is concerned, this group should not be subject to agreements with the large association of interests of slaughterhouses but should be able to make an exception for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u63	I'm a little freaked out about this. The SP always believed with us that you leave an animal dead to an expert, and to a veterinarian, so that there should be a veterinarian. You can't have animals killed by miscreants. A vet hasn't spent eight years studying for nothing. He knows how the death process can proceed as quickly as possible. He has to see to it. No one else can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u64	This small group of butchers, which is also under the supervision of the NVWA, is an example of how it can be done. The beast comes from a farm near that is also slaughtered in its own neighborhood, with much less dragged and large scale. We see a positive side to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u65	Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists believe that the rules we have agreed on for slaughter in all situations, and therefore in the case of home butchers, should be properly monitored and enforced? I remember that the SP was very grateful to us for supporting our proposal for a ban on unsed ritual slaughter. We come up with a new bill, counting on the support of the SP. But of course we must ensure that those home butchers do not become a place where you could evade that imminent ban. So does the SP maintain 100% control and enforcement of the animal welfare rules we agree on for slaughter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u66	To enforcement, absolutely. The question of whether you should invest in large-scale camera surveillance is a question of doubt, because it concerns very limited quantities of massacres. But the NVWA absolutely must remain on top of that and you should not have some kind of avoidance possibility. That is why, of course, there are also maximum standards on how much can be slaughtered. You can't just turn an industrial slaughter company into a home butcher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u67	We shall then proceed to Mr De Groot, who will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Chairman. The events in the Belgian slaughterhouse are repulsive. You're wondering what's gotten into people to behave like that in front of animals. These events underline the need for adequate control, including in the Netherlands. The D66 Group welcomes the fact that there seems to have been learned from previous Dutch scandals. Cameras can play a role in this improvement of supervision, but I have not yet received a good answer in the written round to the State Secretary's opinion on the effectiveness of the use of camera images. In what cases does the NVWA decide to use camera images? The same applies to food safety. For example, has the Secretary of State examined the use of video images as an alternative to the incisions in cattle, as he has been recommended? At the same time, it is not quite clear to me which abattoirs are participating and which are not. Will the Secretary of State make public who does and who doesn't? This week it was announced that the American Food Authority had found that Dutch veal was infected with E. colibacteria. In the case of hygienic work and debris with stool, the percentage appears to be around 90 to 95, as well as the meat temperature. More than 15 million massacres involve impressive numbers in absolute terms. How does the Secretary of State assess these rates in the light of the findings of the US Food Authority? While we are at calf farming, the risk assessment red meat chain concludes in 2014 that it is unknown what percentage of the animals will be loaded or die during unloading. Is this known and can the Secretary of State guarantee that calves less than 10 days old are not transported over 100 km? The nalefmonitor shows that fixing and stunning does not always go well. Are these random errors in the case of constantly changing slaughterhouses or are they always the same slaughterhouses? In the end, it's about preventing abuses. What has the Secretary of State done to address the root causes of possible abuses? Are there any screens on which permanent images can be seen? As is well known, this works preventively. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he has fully followed the advice of Animal Welfare with the risk assessment of the red meat chain, for the sake of short point 4.2, points 24, 25 and 29. I'd like an answer on a point-by-point basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u69	I heard Mr De Groot talking about permanent screens. I do not understand very well what that means and whether or not the D66 Group would be in favour of it, especially in relation to, for example, the privacy that this party has always been very committed to. As we have been able to read, viewing the camera images becomes an additional task of the NVWA, as this does not replace the other supervision. How does D66 intend to deal with the costs for business in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u70	Thank you for these questions. You also asked the Secretary of State about the costs. He wrote something about it, too. So I'm gonna wait for the further answer on that. As for the monitors: you can hang cameras but the question is then what happens to the images. Do they end up on a computer or hanging somewhere just monitors where you can permanently see what's happening? That is a purely practical question. Hanging up the cameras is one thing, but the question is how it works in practice and that's the main point of how it can work preventively, because that's what D66 is mainly about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u71	That is clear, but I am mostly curious about what D66 itself thinks of both points. I did ask a question about the costs. I have also prepared a motion for the second term on this point, because the VVD Group believes that these costs cannot simply be deposited with the business community. What does D66 think of it and what does she think of it when those images are projected on a screen in the context of keeping people sharp in order to make them do their job better?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u72	That monitor is just a place where you can look at the camera footage. You have to do this in a way that guarantees the privacy of the employees. As far as costs are concerned, these agreements have now been made with industry. I would also like to know how these costs are distributed. Sometimes there are also costs that you simply take with you in your business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u73	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. I would ask you all to remain in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u74	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the questions asked about the abuses in the Belgian slaughterhouse in Tielt and, above all, about the way in which we monitor the slaughter in the Netherlands and what we could possibly change. The last time we talked about this, I indicated to the slaughterhouses that we were talking about camera surveillance. I indicated at that time that I would prefer that this should be done voluntarily and that we should make good agreements on when the supervisor, the NVWA, could get access to the images. I recently informed the Chamber about the arrangements I made with the three umbrella organizations of slaughterhouses on this subject. 90% of all animals slaughtered shall be slaughtered in slaughterhouses belonging to these umbrella organisations. This covers most of the slaughter in the Netherlands, as I indicated in the letter. The Members of Parliament have asked a number of questions about how to deal with the other 10%. I shall come back to that later in the answer. I shall begin with Mr Graus' question. He said that you agreed on a voluntary basis, but I would like it to have a legal basis. Others said that too; Mrs Lodders was seriously opposed to this. Let me put it this way. I indicated last time that a voluntary basis is the easiest for everyone. It's more attractive for the abattoirs. Many abattoirs already have cameras or install them now because of their own business operations, in order to keep an eye on the process themselves. There are also agreements on the privacy of employees. That could be a model for the abattoirs that haven't installed cameras yet. If there are good agreements about the NVWA's access to those images, it is actually adequately regulated. Legislation is a lot more complicated. I assume that the slaughterhouses will actually implement the agreements that have been made. I have also indicated with the smaller abattoirs, which are not connected to these domes, that I will make the call to ensure that they too will install cameras and then give access to NVWA on the basis of the same agreements. If all this is successful, there is no need for a legal basis, but if there are any major problems, it is inevitable to give it a legal basis. Camera surveillance offers real added value to the overall supervision that the NVWA exercises. Also applies: equal monks, equal hoods. If most of the abattoirs are just cooperating, it should not be the case that a few are avoiding it. Again, I assume that it will not be necessary, but it remains something to be held back, as far as I am concerned. Mr Graus said that sometimes there is talk of permanent supervision and sometimes non-permanent supervision. Here's the deal. The large slaughterhouses are all subject to permanent supervision. That means there's always someone who will approve the animals when they arrive alive. At other times in the slaughter process there is also a permanent presence of the NVWA. This does not mean that people are always everywhere in the slaughterhouse, but they are always in the slaughterhouse. The smaller and medium-sized slaughterhouses are subject to non-permanent supervision. Based on a risk analysis, it is determined how often the NVWA is present there. During the supply and inspection of live animals, the NVWA is always present in the slaughterhouses. That is the explanation. Mr Graus also asked what should be done at the time when it was found that the staff of slaughterhouses committed infringements. He said: they must be dismissed immediately, a fine must be imposed, there must be a life-long ban on working with animals. It works like this. The NVWA shall act if it finds infringements. It is administrative supervision, so there is also an administrative sanctioning. In doing so, they focus on the slaughterhouse. It is also assumed that the slaughterhouse has a responsibility to ensure animal welfare in that slaughterhouse, including by properly trained staff, internal quality checks, a welfare officer, etc. In those exceptional cases where it is found that a person is really willing and knowing to cause animal suffering, there is still the possibility of criminal sanctions. Which means they'll be redirected to the state's attorney's office. Mr Graus also asked about the measure of punishment in those cases. Normally, written warnings or warnings will be given to the slaughterhouse or administrative penalties will be given. The Administrative Fines Decision lays down the penalties and their level. These range from €1,500 to €5,000 per offense. So, if the scale of infringements is large, that can increase considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u75	Live pigs have more feeling than many people, and also more feeling than many MPs. We have seen that it is simply thrown into boiling water alive, that it is pulled on the ears, that it is kicked and beaten. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that a person who does so should be given prison time, not just a fine, and that he should also be given a life-long ban, including a private one, on keeping and working with animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u76	If you see such practices, as has happened in Belgium, there would be a good reason to transfer them to the Public Prosecutor's Office for criminal sanctions. A criminal sanctioning is always seen on the individuals themselves. So that is different from the administrative penalties that can be imposed on a slaughterhouse. A slaughterhouse can also be shut down. That is what happened in Belgium. But if you see that employees are really deliberately misbehaving, you can redirect that to the D.A.'s office. Then the D.A. will decide on the persecubility.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u77	The Secretary of State says it can be done, but it has to be done. I'm concerned about the situation in which there are no animal police people present. NVWAs are often intimidated. It just happens. That does not go directly to the Secretary of State, because they are afraid of losing their jobs. I have another question about the voluntary nature the Secretary of State spoke about. He says that 90% of them already want to cooperate and that 10%, perhaps a part of that 10%, will be difficult. Then why not have a legal anchor? What's wrong with that? The other ones want it already, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u78	I also said it's something to hold back. I have said before that such a legal anchoring is complicated. But if I have to, I'm willing to use it. However, on the basis of the agreements I have made now, I assume that it will not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u79	The Secretary of State continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr Geurts asked when there was non-compliance. He also referred to the different percentages he had found in the letter and in the national monitor. In respect of animal welfare in the large red meat slaughterhouses, the NVWA finds non-compliance in all process steps. It may be the landing of the animals to the slaughterhouse, it may be the placing of the animals in the slaughterhouse, it may be the fixing and stunning. In short, it may be all process steps in the slaughterhouse. Further information on this can be found in the national monitor. It was given to the Chamber earlier this year. It contains detailed information. Mr Geurts also asked about the 4%, which was also mentioned earlier. I think that is what this was about in Question Time. The NVWA carries out checks on batches. There is slaughter in batches, i.e. in groups of animals. At 4% of those batches, something wasn't right. A shortcoming was thus noted. This may also mean that there is a deficiency in one pig throughout the group. That is why I explained during Question Time that it does not mean that something goes wrong in 4% of pigs. We are talking about 4% of the controls. You can read in detail in the national monitor what exactly is being observed and how it is being handled. Mr Geurts asked if I could set up camera surveillance in, for example, the EU animal welfare platform. We have asked the partners in the Vught declaration, the EU's like-minded countries, if they would support a proposal to allow the European Commission to set up camera surveillance in slaughterhouses for that platform. There was no support for that. It has been stated that, for example, privacy law is a reason not to support it. It is also felt that responsibility should remain with slaughterhouses or that other forms of supervision are better and more appropriate. This does not mean that there is no focus on camera surveillance in other Member States. I've given the Chamber an overview. That overview is also in the letter I sent to the Chamber. Member States are each working on it in their own way, but they did not feel the need for a bid in the EU platform. Mr Geurts spoke about employee privacy. He pointed out the risk that images against employees could be used, for example by activists. It's not illegal to film employees. The law gives room for this, provided that the purpose for which they are filmed is set in advance and that there is clarity about it among those who are filmed. In this way, there is a kind of threshold in the legislation before you switch to the use of cameras. At the same time, that space is there. You can make good agreements about that, too. I think the privacy of employees is important. I also see the risks pointed out by Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders. The advantage of the agreements I made with the abattoirs is that the images remain the property of the slaughterhouses and that they do not end up on the streets and can be used there for other purposes. Good agreements on these matters must also be made when the protocol is being drawn up. Mr Grashoff asked whether this measure could then be made universally binding on camera surveillance. In this case, you would be talking about legislation if you wanted it to become universally binding. It does not really apply to the issues for which we normally use the universally binding instrument. You're talking about a legal obligation. I have just said that I assume that the existing agreements will lead to success. However, if there are any major problems as to whether the participation of smaller slaughterhouses is insufficient, I will consider a legal obligation. We can also look at the possibility of applying the legal obligation to companies that do not cooperate themselves. Those companies are then forced to do so, and with that we respect the companies that do it on their own initiative. But those are things that we should be working on at that time. Mr Grashoff also asked about the remaining 10%: does it mean that these companies do not want to cooperate? Not all abattoirs are connected to the three large domes. These are particularly small and medium-sized slaughterhouses. They are, to a large extent, already represented by the VSV, which has also endorsed these agreements. The VSV therefore cooperates with these agreements, but there are also smaller and medium-sized companies that are not associated with them. We will approach them in the near future. We will urge them to comply with these agreements. But they were not represented by a dome organization that sat at the table. So I cannot see that they do not want to cooperate. In fact, it seems to me that it is also in their own interest for the smaller and medium-sized slaughterhouses to participate in this. Then the footage. In what cases are they available? There must never be a discussion if the NVWA wants to look at the images. I agree with Mr Grashoff. This is also part of the arrangement. It must be crystal clear that the NVWA can always watch live if it wants to and that it should always be able to look back at images. The agreement on this must be worked out in a very secure manner. This is about ensuring that there is always access to the images and the retention period of the images, because you can keep them for a certain period of time, also on the basis of the legislation in force. We want to make the agreement that everyone keeps the footage for the same length, so the NVWA always knows they're there. The privacy of the employees is also part of the agreements that need to be made. The agreements must guarantee that there can never be any fuss about access to the images. Mr Grashoff also asked about when cameras have not worked or when images are not available. This issue will also have to be part of the agreements that we are working on here. We must also clearly agree on the consequences when cameras are dysfunctional or when images are not available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u81	Thank you for the speed with which the Secretary of State is working to ensure that cameras are monitored in all slaughterhouses and that good agreements are made. The motion adopted by the Chamber gives him the room to do so. The motion finally states that the State Secretary himself has said that an obligation is not excluded. Does this also include the fact that if it does not work with the agreements, if the images are not made available to the NVWA, whereas the NVWA does, this is a reason to point out to the sector the stick of the obligation that is behind the door?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u82	Sure. I'm assuming you don't have to, but that stick is behind the door. This must lead to the desired result. Moreover, legislation takes time. It takes time to make a law and get it dealt with here, especially in this case because it is not the simplest law, because it also affects privacy aspects. However, it is also in the interests of the slaughterhouses to do so voluntarily. When you talk about mandatory camera registration and the fact that the NVWA can always access the images, it becomes much easier legally for third parties to access the images. That has already been discussed, because that is something the slaughterhouses will probably want to avoid. It is therefore also in their interest to regulate it on the basis of joint agreements. The basis for the arrangements is there. That is very nice, but it still has to be worked out so that it works in practice. The smaller abattoirs that are not part of the domes must therefore also participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u83	Does the Secretary of State expect him to reach 100% coverage in the near future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u84	Mr Futselaar's question concerns the self-slaughtering butchers. I will come to that, but I shall now confine myself to all the other abattoirs. I will approach the smaller and medium-sized slaughterhouses that have not yet joined these agreements in the near future. I do not know how they will behave, but given the cooperative attitude of the three large domes, the vast majority of the slaughter in the Netherlands, I do not expect them to adopt a different attitude. But that's just a prophecy. In any case, I will do everything in my power to ensure that they join us in the near future. I am now making a small bridge to the question that Mrs Ouwehand asked: how quickly will this happen? Wii still have to work out these agreements very closely, but I do want to take significant steps in the coming months. It would be nice if most of the agreements made had been reached by the end of the year. Mrs Ouwehand also asked about the restraining order. The Chamber will receive a letter from the Minister of Security and Justice on the restraining order before the summer. Mrs Ouwehand further asked: what are the options for refusing to import meat on the basis of animal welfare? There are currently no EU regulations or directives on the basis of which imports can be refused if issues relating to animal welfare have been identified. Nor is it the case that the meat can be retrieved afterwards. That's what we saw in the situation in Tielt. It was up to the Belgian authorities to monitor this. They only carry out a recall when there is a danger to public health. There is no basis to execute a recall due to animal welfare degradation. Finally, Mrs Ouwehand said that it would be good to make images of every step in the slaughter process available. Mrs Ouwehand knows that I am very much in favour of transparency in the way our food is produced. As a consumer, you need to know where the meat comes from, how animals are kept, how they are transported and how the slaughter is carried out. I think it's a good thing for consumers to know that. If you go into it and you go around the internet for an hour, you can find most of it yourself. There's a lot available. Farmers are showing more and more and Vion is showing more and more; he is trying to give an impression of how the slaughter process is taking place. He recently promised to show pictures, including of the stunning of pigs in the slaughter process. However, let me join with Mrs Ouwehand's appeal: don't hide it, just show it how you do it, show it honestly how you do it and how it works. I think consumers have a right to that information. This also gives consumers who are wondering where the chopstick, the steak or the meatball comes from the opportunity to look up more information about this and see how meat is produced before it ends up in the pan at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you. I know the Secretary of State's commitment, and I appreciate it. It also affects one of the foundations of the debate on livestock farming and meat production. There is constant tension between the image that the sector itself would like to communicate, not completely and using sometimes some euphemistic jargon................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this transparency also means that all parts of the House of Commons have just been made clear and that this must be clear to citizens? That not one party in jargon communicates and then gets angry when someone makes it very explicit? Does he agree that this tension isn't helping?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u86	I share what Mrs Ouwehand says. In the end, transparency is always in the interests of producers. That goes for the same thing here. Sometimes that is done a bit euphemistic and concealing; of course everyone wants to tell the story from their own perspective. That's understandable, too. However, I am convinced that if that perspective gets too far away from reality, society will correct it by itself. We have an information society where so much is available and where it is possible to find out so much, that it doesn't make much sense to try to put things away. Every politician knows: if you're a little too rosy about your own election program, that's also corrected. This also applies to companies in this sector. So I think it's extremely sensible for a company to show itself how it actually works. There are always two golden rules. If you run into something in a company that you think you'd rather not show, you might have a very good reason to think about if you're doing it the right way. That might be a very good reason to take another look at that. You must be able to show everything and dare to show it. On the other hand, consumers who eat meat but do not really want to know how that meat is produced may have to think about it again. After all, eating meat means killing animals. I have said before that, of course, we do not really like to know that. But it's part of it, and it's part of the meat that's in the pan at your place. That meat comes from somewhere; it comes from living animals. It is then good to know that everything is being done to ensure that these animals ultimately suffer as little as possible from the fact that "we" as a society consume meat. Then it's a good thing you're showing as much of that as you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you for that answer. I also ask this because organisations such as Wake-up Animal, which explicitly and plastically describe what happens to animals in the meat industry, are often accused of demonising farmers. However, these organisations simply describe what happens to animals in the meat industry. That reproach has not yet occurred today, but we do hear it regularly. I think it's important that we just embrace factual information in this society, even if it looks painful or if it isn't cozy information. Let's not put that away as an attempt to demonize farmers, because civil society organisations like Wake Animal simply don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u88	I think it always helps if we have two sides out of understanding each other's views and each other's situation. That means it's fine if you put your finger on the sore spot sometimes, when you say: there are things in the existing practice that I don't like and we should really change them. At the same time, it is good to look into the other side. How did it come to be like this? I have often said here that the way we keep animals in the Netherlands has arisen in a process of decades. That has led to where we stand today. In that process, for the sake of increasing efficiency, perhaps some steps have been taken to ask oneself today: should this have been the case? Should we not try to get back to farming where animal welfare is given a more important place? I think that should happen. That also means something to the farmers. They must also be able to make that change and they must be able to make enough money from it. I think that understanding of the farmer's position is also part of this discussion. So I also think that sometimes too much is being pointed at. Farmers are also part of the system that we all created. If we want to change that, I think there are a lot of good reasons for wanting to change it, then you will have to do it together. That "together" is sometimes a bit thinly present on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u89	I see that Mrs Ouwehand wants to respond to this again, but unfortunately we have made the agreement that we are doing interrupts in two. I therefore ask her not to ask any further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u90	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. But there is a suggestion being made here that I must, unfortunately, refute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u91	You have your second term for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u92	I have just used only one round in an interruption, Mr President, so if I may...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u93	Then I will be on smooth ice, Mrs Ouwehand, because others would also like to make use of their opportunity to intervene. I would ask you to do this in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u94	Mr President, you have just allowed Mr Graus to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u95	Then he actually wanted to correct something. If you want to do the same, I would like to give you the opportunity to do so. But then it must be short and factual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u96	The Secretary of State is actually suggesting that the civil society organisations I was talking about do not understand the farmers. That is factually incorrect. This social organisation points to us, the political one, who is responsible. On the contrary, there is a great deal of understanding for the clamp in which the farmers are in. It would therefore be nice if the Secretary of State did not suggest that there would be no understanding in these organizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. The Secretary of State will continue his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u98	That is "actually" corrected, but we are talking about the same organisation that has recently been campaigning against the slaughter of healthy animals as if that were not the current practice. So if it's about sticking to the facts, then we can all improve something. I do not think there is much point in going into this further in detail. The porte of my message, which I believe was very close to Mrs Ouwehand's, is that we will only move forward if we understand each other and have the willingness to deepen each other's position. This applies both to people who want to change livestock farming and to people who work in it. Mrs. Ouwehand must have heard it all. Mrs. Lodders said she's very opposed to mandatory camera surveillance. What if abattoirs don't want to cooperate? What am I gonna do? I'm not allowed to make her do it. I'm in something else. I assume that abattoirs will cooperate, especially those connected to the domes but also the smaller abattoirs. On the basis of the discussions I have had with the representatives of the umbrella organisations, I am confident that they will do so. But of course, it must not be the case that all these good-willing companies are going to make this investment and cooperate, but that a few companies are going to avoid it. That is why I have said that I am certainly holding back the possibility of legislation, even if it is only to be able to force the breakers if necessary. I assume it's not necessary, but, like I said, that stick stays behind the door. Mrs Lodder asked whether each slaughterhouse should draw up a protocol or whether the NVWA would do so. The protocols will be drawn up in consultation between the business community and the NVWA. It is simply a question of making practical agreements on, for example, the way in which access to images is shaped in practice. Each slaughterhouse will have to join it by adopting a protocol, either centrally drawn up or drawn up specifically for that slaughterhouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u99	I would like to refer to the previous answer by the Secretary of State to my question on the general binding declaration and the comment he is now making towards Mrs Lodders and me on keeping legislation under control. My thinking on the general binding statement was that I see a clear parallel to another issue, which we have discussed very extensively and several times. In that matter, the Secretary of State did choose that means. I do not yet see the significant difference and therefore do not understand why this could not be a suitable vehicle. It has the advantages that the State Secretary himself has outlined. The sector has more in its own hands, and it is legally something else in terms of ownership of the images and such services and, at the same time, a clearly fixed end goal, namely 100% participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u100	The tricky thing is that we actually have the instrument of the universally binding declaration for business initiatives that, for example, contribute to sustainability or jointly set up an agenda for research and innovation. Of this you can say: that is in fact for the benefit of the whole sector, of all companies, but it will only succeed if everyone participates. If there is sufficient support for such steps, then we can make such initiatives generally binding from the government and we can therefore force companies to participate or to pay a contribution to them, because that is mostly what this is about. That is a different matter from what we are talking about today, namely a supervisory toolbox. For this purpose, the general declaration is simply not intended or appropriate. This is really about the use of cameras that you install yourself, for which we make agreements on how they are directed and how the NVWA can use these images. This must be possible on the basis of voluntary agreements. If not, then you really need to go to regulation. That is the appropriate step to enforce such a thing; a general declaration is not appropriate for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u101	Follow-up? That is not the case. Then the Secretary of State will continue to reply in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mrs. Lodders asked how I guarantee the safety of the employees. Based on these agreements, the images remain the property of the slaughterhouse. They can therefore be viewed by the NVWA, but they do not become the property of the NVWA. This means that the images cannot come into the hands of other organisations, which may have different intentions. For example, the images fall outside the WOB, because they are not owned, not even via-via. I believe that this has taken away Mrs Lodder's concern. Mr Futselaar asked about the self-slaughtering butchers, who are worried. Like him, I can see that we are talking about a very specific and very small group. I understand the concerns. For me, the priority is from big to small: the main priority was with the largest slaughterhouses, all of which are connected to the domes with which I made the agreements. On the basis of these agreements, the matter must now be settled. The next step is to regulate the small and medium-sized slaughterhouses. Those are still abattoirs where they are slaughtered on a commercial basis. This does not happen in the same quantities as in the large slaughterhouses, but camera surveillance still brings significant added value. Again, the installation of camera surveillance, including from its own business process, would be a logical step. The self-slaughtering butchers, of course, are just different: because they slaughter themselves, they do not install cameras to keep an eye on their own business process. I can see that there is another situation here. As far as I am concerned, this group has the lowest priority. I'll talk to her, see what's possible. This also applies: there are self-slaughtering butchers who do want to install cameras, which can facilitate monitoring. We're going to have a conversation, but I understand these concerns very well. Mr De Groot asked some more technical questions. He asked to begin in my opinion about the effectiveness of using cameras. The letter states that camera images are a useful support tool for supervisors, with the emphasis on "supporting." They offer added value for those times when the NVWA is not present at a particular place in the slaughterhouse. This even applies to slaughterhouses where there is permanent supervision: the NVWA cannot always be present everywhere in the slaughterhouse. For slaughterhouses where there is no permanent supervision, the NVWA is not always there. In either case, it can help. The operation of supervision is mainly preventive. Monitoring is not primarily aimed at detecting infringements, but at preventing infringements, namely because you know that you are being watched. For that camera surveillance has an added value, because the NVWA can also look back at times when it was not there, yet afterwards what exactly happened. We will work that out concretely in the coming period, to ensure that it actually gets that position. Mr De Groot asked me whether I would like to make public which slaughterhouses will and will not participate. I'm assuming they're all gonna join us. If that is not the case, I have already said that I am holding back regulations to force them to participate if necessary. However, the commitment is to make sure that they are all in on it first. Should that work out differently, it is reasonable to talk about who we have been able to make good agreements with and who is not yet on board. With regard to camera surveillance, Mr De Groot asked whether, because of its preventive effect, there should be screens in the abattoirs. We can discuss this if that would also have added value for the slaughterhouses. Mr De Groot also asked about the abuses involved. I shall mention a few. You can also see some of this in the national monitor. For example, there are too many animals in the lofts where the animals enter. Things go wrong when animals are driven up in the corridors between the lofts. Animals can become entangled. Things go wrong with the anesthesia and the fixation. There are also things that go wrong when actually killing the animals. All steps in the process have been found to be flawed. Mr De Groot also asked about the reports on E. coli bacteria found on veal in the USA. In Miami, the FSIS, the American NVWA, found that a consignment of veal was contaminated. Exports to the US by the company in question were immediately discontinued. That company also ran a recall. The NVWA has been informed and is keeping an eye on it. The source of the infection is currently being investigated. They haven't found it yet. It is a contagion that is not a violation in Europe, but it is in the US. Except in America, no contamination with this bacteria has been found on other products from the same company. They're all being investigated as closely as possible. Mr De Groot also asked whether animals under 10 days of age would remain within the 100 km transport limit. According to the Transport Directive, animals under 10 days of age may not be transported at all. For the sake of safety, the Stichting Branche organisatie Kalversector will last fourteen days. So the animals are not transported at all when they are so young. Finally, Mr De Groot asked a question about camera surveillance in the case of incisions. I assume he is referring to the slaughter phase of the animal, so when the animal is already dead and is further cut into it. My agreements with the sector do not relate to that stage. This is really about animal welfare, and that plays from the moment the animal enters, until the moment the animal is dead. That's why I made arrangements about camera surveillance. So it's not about the moment that the animal is already dead and is being processed further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u103	I thank the Secretary of State, but I see that there are still some interruptions. First of all, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u104	Just for the Acts. In the Netherlands, millions of animals are given incisions and throats, trachea and everything are cut while they are still conscious. That's ritual torture, also called ritual slaughter. That happens to millions of animals a year. The Secretary of State has just told my colleague De Groot that the animal that gets an incision is already dead. That is precisely not the case with millions of animals. That is why I have been advocating a ban on ritual torture since 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u105	I didn't hear a question. That was more of an observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u106	I expect to be able to inform the Chamber in the very near future about the state of play regarding the ritual slaughter in the Netherlands and the arrangements made by Secretary of State Bleker with the so-called covenant partners, namely the slaughterhouses and the representatives of the religious groups in the Netherlands. If the Court so wishes, it may then discuss it further on the basis of current information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u107	My question about the incisions does indeed relate to this. This is one of the recommendations in the risk assessment of the red meat chain. It was put forward as an alternative because it would be more hygienic. Did the Secretary of State do anything with that advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u108	I think Mr De Groot's question was what I did with all the opinions in that report. It is too far-reaching to go into this in detail. Many of the opinions referred to by Mr De Groot were addressed to industry rather than to the public authorities. The advice given to the government in the report which I believe is now in his hand only concerned the previous point: the intoxicating slaughter of animals. If Mr De Groot wishes to discuss in detail the whole risk assessment of the red meat chain, it does not seem to me to be the most appropriate time for this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u109	Before I come to my interruption, I would point out that one of my questions has not been answered. I asked what the costs will be for the NVWA and what the NVWA will no longer do if she gets this job.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u110	It can be done within the regular tasks and therefore within the regular budget, because it is just supervision as the NVWA now carries out at the abattoirs. It makes the implementation of supervision at some times more effective and sometimes easier, but it does not result in additional costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u111	Would you like to ask a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u112	I absolutely do not share this point. I think the Secretary of State is on a slippery slope. We have been discussing the NVWA's tasks for many years and over and over again I hear these kinds of comments, but that aside. My interruption concerns the safety and security of the employees. I am not reassured and satisfied with this, especially given the answer given by the Secretary of State to Mr De Groot that screens might have a preventive effect. By doing so, you already suggest that there can be a wide view and that those images can be re-recorded and brought out by others. Another reason why I am not reassured is the fact that the protocol has not been worked out. It is not yet clear whether the protocol between the NVWA and the business community or between the NVWA and individual abattoirs will be established or whether it will be presented in the direction of the abattoirs as a withdrawal note from NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u113	Those are different questions in one. Mrs Lodders first asked about the costs. The NVWA has, of course, looked closely at the question of whether it can be within the current enforcement and supervision capacity. If Mrs Lodder wants to increase the supervisory capacity and the budgets available for this purpose, I believe that this should be discussed in the formation or in a subsequent cabinet. This would, of course, help the NVWA to further improve supervision. Anyway, that consideration is up to her. The use of cameras as part of the supervision does not lead to a cost increase for the NVWA and can simply be within the existing capacity. I say that it does not have to lead to an increase in costs for business. I've agreed to that with the business community as well. As regards the safety of employees, the remark that screens could have a preventive effect was made by Mr De Groot. That's not part of the deal I made. All I have said is that I would be happy to include this suggestion in the discussions we are having with the slaughterhouses, but it is very much up to them. After all, this is really about the way slaughterhouses decide to use technology to improve their own process. This therefore has no further function for monitoring. For monitoring, it is important that the cameras are well-focused and that all steps in the process are properly represented, so that by viewing the camera images you can see whether it went well or not. Relevant to the supervision is also that the NVWA gets access to the images at any time when the NVWA wants to and that the NVWA, if it so wishes, can watch live as well as watch images. Therefore, good agreements should also be made on retention. The core of these agreements is that we make them together. I therefore assume that we can also agree jointly on the protocols on how this is done. As Mr Grashoff rightly said, you do not want to have a discussion on the floor of the slaughterhouse. You just want this to be secure. That's in everyone's best interest. So I'm just assuming that it's really possible to do this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u114	Mrs Lodders, your interruption is limited to the position of the workers, not the costs; that was the other point that had not yet been answered. So the follow-up question is about that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u115	Yeah, about the issue of people's safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u116	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u117	I'm not reassured by the Secretary of State's reply. I note that the Secretary of State has made an agreement with the business community to use these images in different ways: to see them or to watch them live. However, the agreements on actual use have not yet been established. Therefore, I have no idea what such a protocol or arrangement will look like. I will make a comment on the question of costs in the second period, because we certainly do not share that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u118	All right, if Mrs Lodder has another analysis on that, I'll be hearing it in the second term. That seems special to me. With regard to the safety of the employees, I have now stressed a few times that, because of voluntary agreements, the images remain the property of the slaughterhouse. Mrs. Lodder's concern was: what if those images end up in the street? It would then be possible to identify these employees, and this might lead to problems for the safety of the employees. However, these images are not in the hands of the NVWA. So the NVWA can't get those footage out on the street. That is true the responsibility of the supervisor or the supervisor. The government's down. I also indicated in the letter that many abattoirs already have cameras. They use them to keep an eye on the business process and to improve it where possible. Those abattoirs will have taken measures themselves to prevent them from getting into the streets, but that is further up to them, because the images are their property and they remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u119	I thank the Secretary of State for his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u120	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the next three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that animal executioners within slaughterhouses are immediately released, are punished in relation to the abuse including a lifetime ban on working with and keeping animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the availability of the so-called closed-circuit television images not only benefits research by the NVWA (the Dutch Food and War Authority) (administrative law) but also for the benefit of task holders animal welfare of the national police (criminal law),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas France and Belgium are preparing a legal obligation on camera surveillance in slaughterhouses;]] [[noting that 90% of all abattoirs within interbranch organisations voluntarily cooperate in camera surveillance by NVWA;]] [[noting that small slaughterhouses operating outside inter-branch organisations are responsible for the killing and slaughter of millions of animals per year;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the proposed camera surveillance with a legal basis in the Animal Law and/or in further rules based on that law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-912]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-913]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-914]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u121	I would like to thank my colleagues for supporting this debate on behalf of defenceless animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u122	This is recorded in the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u123	Mr. Chairman. There was not that much support for this debate, but of course there was support from the Party for Animals. I'll file the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet claims to assume that the meat industry has nothing to hide;]] [[noting that the information and communication of both the sector itself and the public authorities is not a complete or completely clear representation of what is happening to animals in the meat, dairy and egg chains, including the use of jargon which is not meaningful to citizens;]] [[calls on the Government to propose greater and effective transparency on the life and death of animals in the meat, dairy and egg chains,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, as soon as possible, but by the end of 2017, to implement 100% GPS control on Dutch livestock transports and not to exclude it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-915]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-916]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u124	Finally. All the criticism that civil society organisations I know have about the way animals are handled in the meat industry is directed towards politics. It is therefore not aimed at farmers who make use of the freedom that this policy gives them to treat animals in a way that we know is morally wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I am able to do so, including as regards the objective of 100% coverage. I think this is a proper course of action. I agree with the views on the universally binding declaration versus legislation. That's a bit legal, but I'm assuming the Secretary of State has better information on that right now than I do. I'm left with the filing of one motion. It may not necessarily be necessary, but I think it concerns the Achilles heel of the system, so that is why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a protocol with the abattoirs will determine the way in which NVWA has access to the footage;]] [[calls on the Government to establish in the protocol that the camera images should be made available to NVWA at all times at the first request of the NVWA and without restrictions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-917]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the safety of abattoir staff and NVWA should not be compromised;]] [[believes that camera images from slaughterhouses should never fall into the hands of malicious (e.g. activist) third parties;]] [[calls on the Government not to undertake (permanent) voluntary surveillance as an additional control option for NVWA before the safety of the staff of the slaughterhouse and NVWA in question is secured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-918]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mr. Chairman. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that voluntary agreements will be reached with industry on the use of camera images (closed circuit TV/CCTV);]] [[Whereas access to and access to the camera images becomes an additional task of the NVWA;]] [[Whereas the capacity of the NVWA is under pressure;]] [[Considering the State Secretary's commitment to industry that the burden of using camera images for business will not increase;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of how this additional task is carried out within the current capacity before it makes this measure effective,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-919]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u128	Mr. Chairman. I will not go further with the explanatory statement. I think that the motions speak for themselves, but we will certainly come back to that when the NVWA operates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mr. Chairman. With regard to the self-slaughtering butchers, we are satisfied with the reaction of the Secretary of State, who acknowledges that it is a separate case. Therefore, no motion, but we insist that, when it comes to drafting legislation in this area, this group and its somewhat separate status should also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u130	Mr. Chairman. In this debate, it has become clear that camera surveillance can help to improve monitoring, but above all in the preventive sense. However, there is still a lot to do. It is a question of covering all the abattoirs and the protocols to be drawn up in order to provide adequate privacy for employees. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in response to the animal abuse in a Belgian slaughterhouse camera surveillance in slaughterhouses is being extended;]] [[Whereas such monitoring should lead to an improvement in the effectiveness of the supervision by NVWA, should, where possible, have a preventive effect and should not lead to an infringement of the privacy or safety of slaughterhouse staff;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to monitor in which other European countries camera surveillance will be widely deployed and to learn from the design of these systems;]] [[Invites the Government to monitor to what extent the NVWA obtains images at its request, how these images are used by slaughterhouses and NVWA, how this monitoring affects the work in slaughterhouses, and to report to the Court within one year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28286-920]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u131	I heard my colleague De Groot talk about preventive action, but it is precisely to be able to deal with any animal bugs afterwards. As I understand it, there are enough inspectors out there, but it is precisely because what they do not see can always be brought back to deal with people afterwards, not preventively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u132	Of course, that will also be part of it, but the most important thing is the fact that you are watching the supermarket just like in the supermarket, there you also get a picture of yourself being watched. So the preventive effect of this has, in D66's opinion, also been well underlined by the Secretary of State, which is, of course, the most important. In the end, it's about not doing anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u133	This is indeed about the preventive effect that Mr De Groot has indicated. That suggests that images should be more widely available in such a slaughter. That means that you can make all kinds of other images of that with all the consequences of that. Next, the motion speaks I haven't received it yet, so I've tried to quickly write in on how to monitor how images are obtained and how images can lead to influence etc. However, I note that there are no agreements, for example, on the safety of employees of both slaughterhouses and NVWA. Where is D66 when it comes to people's privacy and security? You're letting that go. Why don't you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u134	That is by no means the case. You have now received the motion, so you can read it. There are still many agreements to be made with industry and protocols need to be drawn up. One of the first considerations is that the privacy and protection of employees should also be given a place in it. In addition, the whole system must operate in such a way that it also works preventively. So I don't see your point under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u135	I have the motion before me and I do not see in any way in the recitals or in the operative part anything about the implementation of the protocols and where the importance lies for D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u136	In my explanatory statement to this motion, I also indicated that there was still some work to be done. Hence this motion. As a Chamber, let's take a good look at how it works for the privacy of the employees and how it works within the entire supervision anyway. Let us come back to that in a year's time. We are at the beginning of a new development. An incident, which did not happen in the Netherlands, gave rise to it. I think we need to look at how this development continues and then we need to come back to it as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u137	This little interruption debate with Mrs Lodders certainly raises some questions. There is also a motion from the PVV that says that it should simply become legally mandatory. If I listen to your answer in this way, is the D66 Group in favour of a legal obligation or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u138	You can't read that in the motion and it's not about that either. The Secretary of State has indicated that he will initially try it by making good agreements with the business community. We have every confidence in that. Of course, it is far from preferable to regulate it voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u139	Then we came to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. There are nine motions filed by the Chamber. I note that the Secretary of State is able to reply immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr. Chairman. I shall confine myself to discussing the motions tabled. In his motion in part No. 912 calls on Mr Graus to ensure that animal executioners within slaughterhouses are immediately released, are punished in relation to the abuse, including a lifetime ban on working with and keeping animals. We already have a criminal toolbox where we're talking about animal abuse. I think that's enough. Mr Graus is also asking for something that the government is not about, namely dismissal of employees. This really concerns the relationship between employer and employee. We're not part of that. So I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u141	If someone throws a pig in boiling water, pulls its ears, kicks and hits it, then he should get jail time and a life-long ban on working with and keeping animals. This is the Secretary of State for Animal Welfare! Then who's gonna take care of it? Isn't the Secretary of State also involved in the supervision of slaughterhouses and the handling of animal executioners? Then why not in slaughterhouses? If someone behaves like an asshole with animals, they should be sentenced to prison and a life-long ban on keeping and working with animals. This Secretary of State can arrange that. Someone like that should just be blacklisted. He'll never work on a petting zoo or a slaughterhouse again, ever again!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u142	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u143	Mr Graus is very angry, but he is asking for something that has been there for a long time. He wants someone to be prosecuted for assaulting animals, and that's the case. I have already said: if abuses such as those that have occurred in Belgium were to be found in the Netherlands, I am sure that they would be placed in the public prosecutor's office. I daresay that the prosecution would go to trial. That's the responsibility of the D.A.'s office; that's the jurisdiction of the D.A. Animal abuse is simply criminally prohibited and can therefore also be prosecuted in the Netherlands. It already is. That is why my reaction to the motion was that the instruments we have, in my view, are sufficient to combat animal cruelty. Mr Graus also asks the government to oblige the slaughter to fire such a person. It can't be. This concerns the relationship between employer and employee, which is governed by civil law. That's different from criminal law. However, I am guessing that the abattoir workers who are guilty of such practices will also immediately point the finger at the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u144	I do not want the whole debate to be repeated in the discussion of the motions, but Mr Graus has tabled a motion on this subject for a reason. He may ask a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u145	Hundreds of millions of animals are slaughtered every year in the Netherlands; hundreds of millions. I am one of their voices, one of their representatives. If you'll allow me, Mr. President, I'd like to ask you one more question. My motion is also about a life-long restraining order. The Secretary of State says anything in my motion can be done. Then there is the promise that there will be a life-long restraining ban. That's what I'm asking for. There is no such thing in the Netherlands. We don't have a life-long restraining order. That's why I'm asking. The Secretary of State can ensure that such a person never comes to work in a slaughterhouse again. There just needs to be a blacklist; then it's end of practice. I really want to get a commitment on that right now. We have to be able to deal with these bastards, right? It's all daddy and wet, it's all weak... I won't pronounce it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u146	No, I wouldn't do that in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u147	I have just said that before the summer recess the Chamber will be informed by the Ministry of Security and Justice about the restraining order. I have also said that there is a criminal instrument to deal with animal abuse. They're gonna use that, too. That may not be exactly the instruments that Mr Graus sees before him, but it is certainly strict and it leads to severe penalties for crimes. In his second motion, in part No. 913, Mr Graus asked the government to ensure that the images of the cameras were also made available to the taskkeepers of animal welfare in the police, which was formerly the animal police, says Mr Graus always. I have to discourage this motion, because the camera footage is for the appointed supervisor and that's the NVWA. She also has the opportunity to pass cases on to the Public Prosecutor's Office if she sees anything that should be prosecuted. The NVWA is perfectly capable of that. That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u148	What is your opinion to the Chamber on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u149	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u150	The animal police still exist, you know. It is always said: formerly the animal police. But there's no such thing as animal police. Their number is even being increased; there will soon be more than 200 animal policemen. The papers say the animal police no longer exist, but she still exists. Only, they are officially called: task holders animal welfare of the national police; that is what I said. One of the most commonly heard complaints from the animal police, from the people on the front, I am in contact with those people throughout the country, even on a daily basis, is that the NVWA has a kind of skin around it that the animal police don't get through and that they don't want to share information. That's a common complaint. I once filed that complaint with the Inspector General of the NVWA. He said he'd do something about it, but the best man isn't here anymore. That was Mr Paul, someone I had great faith in. This is what this is about. In view of the criminal law, which the Secretary of State also supports, I believe that the animal police should also be able to see these images. I don't want a man or woman from the animal police to have to discuss this with NVWA. If the animal police get to the scene, she should be able to see the footage next to the NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u151	Caretakers focus on live animals outside the slaughterhouse. They have limited capacity. I think it would be wise for them to use this limited capacity where it is most needed and not to look at it in a slaughterhouse. Government supervisors have been active there for a long time, namely NVWA's supervisors. Mr Graus suggested in the motion that the supervisory authorities of the NVWA only maintain administrative law. No, at the moment when they find abuses that can be prosecuted, they redirect them to the Public Prosecutor's Office and are therefore also prosecuted. So what Mr Graus wants, the possibility of criminal prosecution, is already settled. However, it is not at all reasonable to allow police officers to look at animal welfare, because then two government regulators look at the same images, whereas those task officers should focus on animal welfare outside the slaughterhouses, for example, in animal farms, in people who deal poorly with their animals, etc. That's what they're for. Mr Graus has always been a great advocate of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u152	I'm sorry, but I'm one of the people who wrote to the covenant that was once drawn up. We were a tolerating partner back then. I have spent many times in the room with Mr Opstelten. The animal police may interfere with all animals, with live animals, often until death, that is true, but even after death. I've set up another veterinary forensic team to do that. So the information doesn't add up. The animal police are allowed to check at a slaughterhouse as well. She may also sidestep cattle transports. Something's been published in the media once that doesn't add up. The animal police can do anything, they can do more than the NVWA and the LID. All I'm asking is this. If an animal police officer comes to the scene and wants to see that footage, he must be able to see it without having to have a discussion with someone from the NVWA. Is that so hard? Those discussions take hours. They take days and cause a lot of misery. The peels are there. And the frustrations are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u153	I think my advice was clear in order to discourage this motion. If the Chamber decides otherwise, I'll know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u154	I see another interruption by Mr Grashoff following Mr Graus' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u155	That is a bit unusual, but the answer of the Secretary of State is important for the voting behaviour of my group, including on this motion. Is it true that these images can be continued by the NVWA if they can be used in criminal proceedings? So they're not going to go to the police, they're going to go to the D.A.'s office. Is that documented?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u156	It already is. If there are images on which criminal acts have been committed, they can be applied for in criminal proceedings. So these agreements do not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u157	As a result of the interruption by Mr Graus, I need clarity from the cabinet or the powers of the animal welfare officers, the animal police, so broad that it is also possible to control animals in the meat industry, in the slaughterhouses. It is now a well-known game between Mr Graus and the Secretary of State. Can we get a letter from the Cabinet signed by the Minister of Security and Justice before the vote so that there is no confusion about it anymore? Which supervisor does what and what is the mandate and what is not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u158	I am only going to send letters to the Chamber about the mandate of the police in the Netherlands. I assume the Chamber discussed this with the Minister of Security and Justice. Mr Graus asked whether there was any point in ensuring that national police officials' animal welfare officials also looked at the images in the slaughterhouses. I have already explained a few times that I do not see the added value of this, because the NVWA is already there to monitor animal welfare in the slaughterhouse. The agreement is that the NVWA can see that footage. I do not see the added value of broadening these agreements, because I also assume that the task holders will not focus on animal welfare at all, because they already need their capacity elsewhere. It is a bit nonsense to use a double capacity on the same issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u159	With all due respect, the discussion is then about whether you would like it or not. I was previously given the impression that the Secretary of State was on the line that task officers, the animal police, have no authority to do so, as the authority lies with the NVWA. Mr Graus says that things are different and that he had agreed something else with Minister Opstelten at the time. I would like the misunderstanding to be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u160	It's specifically about viewing the images. I have agreed with the umbrella organizations of the abattoirs that the NVWA may at any time look at the images of the abattoirs, so she can look both live and look back as part of the supervision that NVWA already keeps at slaughterhouses. At the moment when the police or the prosecutor wants to see certain images, the normal path is open. The police or the D.A. can get that footage if there's cause for it. This is no different in abattoirs than in any other place in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u161	I would ask the Secretary of State to go to the Graus motion on item No. 914 to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u162	In the Graus motion to item No. 914 is requested to provide the proposed camera surveillance with a legal basis in the Animal Law. There is no clause as to when that should be. I have indicated that I have made agreements with the umbrella organisations, that these agreements will be further worked out and that I will commit myself to ensuring that all slaughterhouses participate in the agreements. If that doesn't work, I want to keep the possibility of a legal basis under control, but I don't want to go into giving a legal basis in the Animal Law already. Since the motion states that it should be done now, I must advise against her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u163	I want to hold this motion as a stick behind my back. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. Mr President, you will no longer be hearing me today, but I would like to say something important about my motion on item No. 913. It's going wrong. If the animal police want to do an investigation, she runs into a wall of the NVWA very often. This is done at all levels within the NVWA. All I'm saying to the Secretary of State is that if the animal police want to do research, they should be able to look at that footage without having to have these miserable discussions with NVWA officials. That slowing down, that administrative burden; it really gives me diarrhea. Please do something about that; that's all I'm asking. I'm not saying that the animal police should be watching that footage all day, but they should be able to use it without the NVWA making it difficult. That is the order of the day and it bothers me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u164	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (28286 No. 914). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u165	I come to the Old-Hand motion in part No. 915. It calls for proposals for greater and effective transparency on the life and death of animals in the meat, dairy and egg chains. We have just had a brief discussion or exchange of views on this. I have said that I am very much in favour of transparency. But this motion calls on the government to come forward with proposals. That would mean that the government would impose it. It is not specific, but I assume that Mrs Ouwehand thinks that images should be made of everything and that they should be shown. That goes a long way beyond what we were talking about earlier. It concerns, for example, the obligation to use cameras in all kinds of other places in the process. I don't think it's proportionate if it's enforced by the government by regulation. I have said before that I am convinced that various parties in the meat, dairy and egg chains themselves have every interest in being transparent about the keeping of animals and the transport and slaughter of animals. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u166	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u167	The Secretary of State gives his own interpretation of a possible proposal for greater transparency and then says about his own idea that he is not in favour of it. The motion leaves room for proposals. The idea that the Secretary of State has just come up with, he has already shot himself. In the motion, the government is asked to come up with a proposal that it does like. So it's an invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u168	Open invitations are always very friendly, but if the Chamber asks the government to do something, it is also useful if it is clear what is being requested. I challenge Mrs Ouwehand to make something more concrete that she would like to see. As the motion now states, it is my interpretation that it goes far beyond what we have just discussed. I am very much in favour of transparency, but that does not mean that in all cases the public authorities can and should impose any kind of transparency. This is also something that the parties themselves must do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u169	That was clear to me. What the Secretary of State himself can do is to look again with his communication department at all the ways in which animals in the livestock industry are communicated. The jargon can come out. It can be a little more explicit and clearer for citizens. What he can do is, in consultation with the sector, to see whether it is sufficiently in line with the reality that we have discussed in the debate. A new website has been launched on the meat chick industry. There's room for discussion with the sector. The sector can be said to be a little too distant from reality and that this is not helping. I am thinking of such proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u170	We live in a free country. That's good. We have both social and journalistic organisations that, as any party in our society, represent reality a little more rosy than it is, which then exposes it and points it out. That must be done in our society. I don't immediately see it as the responsibility of the government to do so. In fact, I think that the government should be very careful to interfere in discussions or put something in the right place. Then you quickly come into the role of censoring what may or may not be said about. I don't think that's appropriate. This is exactly why I said it would help if the motion became more concrete. In this form, I must dissuade it. Unfortunately for Mrs Ouwehand, this also applies to the motion on item No. 916. It calls on the government to implement 100% GPS control on the Dutch livestock transports by the end of this year. That is not feasible. GPS is part of the pilots for quality systems in livestock farming. It's an expensive instrument. For long-distance transport, GPS is mandatory under the European Transport Regulation, but it will not be possible to achieve 100% GPS control of Dutch livestock transport by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u171	The promise to do that nationally already dates back to 2014, if I am not mistaken, so that has been going on for a while. So when did this happen? All Dutch cars transporting manure are checked with GPS, aren't they? That is where it is possible at national level to impose this obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u172	Sure, because there was every reason for that. The signs of fraud in the case of manure, Mrs Ouwehand, have recently been able to see this for herself in the report of the PPE-DE are so strong that there is a need for additional control. In this case, things are different. At present, there is no direct reason to proceed with an obligation. That is not requested in the motion either. There is only talk about not excluding the obligation. We are now waiting for the pilots on the quality systems. Then we will see if we can take further steps to scale up if the pilots show that this is of added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u173	The pilots have been running for a few years, at least that's the story of the cabinet for a few years. The Secretary of State says again that we have to wait for the pilots, but that may take until the end of the day. What is the real expectation, because that promise has been in place for a few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u174	The answer to the question when exactly the completion of these pilots is foreseen must remain guilty, but at least not in this year, and that is what the motion asked for. I'm gonna stick to dissuading that motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 917 and Mr Grashoff's request that "the protocol lay down that the camera images should be made available to NVWA at all times at the first request of NVWA and without restrictions." That's exactly my bet, too, so I can take over that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u175	If there's no objection... Mr. Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u176	However, I would like to amend the motion. It says "at all times" and that must be "at all times." I think it is wise to include this correctly in the final text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u177	Very well, thank you. Is there any objection to taking over the motion in part No. 917?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u178	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I would like to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u179	Then we'll put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u180	Then you will understand that I see the motion as a support for policy and therefore leave it to the Chamber to decide. In the motion in part No. 918 the government is requested not to engage in voluntary camera surveillance. That is, at least, a remarkable request, because it is precisely the slaughterhouses that undertake voluntary camera surveillance. Secondly, the motion calls for the safety of the staff of the slaughterhouse in question and of the NVWA. I've said before that the footage remains the property of the abattoir. It is therefore also up to the slaughterhouse to ensure the safety of these images. So do the abattoirs that now have cameras. As long as the images do not become the property of the NVWA or of the State, it is also not possible for the government to ensure that these images are safe. That is, therefore, very much the case with the abattoirs. They're voluntary agreements. People hang up those cameras themselves. We make agreements about how they're targeted. We make the agreement that the images are kept and that the NVWA can get access to them, but the government cannot guarantee that the abattoirs themselves take care of their own images. That's what the abattoirs have to do. So I cannot carry out this motion as it has now been formulated and I must therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u181	I object to the one-sided lighting of this motion, because it expressly states: does the government not ask for voluntary camera surveillance 'as an additional means of control for the NVWA', as long as I say it in my own words 'that protocol is not in place'. That is why I have tabled the motion for a resolution. I would like to put 916 to the vote, because it even states that it should be made available to the NVWA without any restrictions. Not only do I think that this motion is one-sidedly highlighted, but I think that the Secretary of State creates the impression that these images should be available without us as a Chamber being able to assess what such a protocol looks like and whether the safety of employees of both slaughterhouses and NVWA is guaranteed. That's really a step too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u182	I'm looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u183	Let me look at Mrs Lodder's image of how this works. What happens on the basis of the agreements is the following. There'll be cameras up there, there'll be cameras up there. The agreements are about how they should be targeted, so that they actually record what is useful for the NVWA. That's a deal. Secondly, the NVWA must be able to view those images at any time, either live or looking back. That is why agreements are made about how long the company keeps these images. So it's just the supervisor, the employee of the NVWA, who's going to look at the footage. This has no consequences for the safety of employees. Slaughterhouses that are already making footage will ensure that these images are kept properly. The most important thing is the agreement that the NVWA can always look at these images if it so wishes and that no further restrictions are applied to them, as was indeed stated in Mr Grashoff's motion. This protocol deals with the way in which this is done in practice, so that there can be no discussion about it in the workplace of the slaughterhouse. I do not, to be honest, see what consequences these agreements would have for the safety of the employees. Mrs Lodder's concern is whether those images can end up on the streets. It's footage from the abattoir, which means they're owned by the abattoir. It's up to the abattoir to take care of that security. I've said before that if you move on to a legal obligation, there will be other matters involved. Then it may be that images are requested by third parties in very special situations. On the basis of these agreements, however, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u184	I think that the Secretary of State is very easily stepping over that aspect. We will not get along, certainly not in this debate. When we talk about a protocol, it includes how images are looked back and where images are looked back. I can just imagine those images being taken to an office or some other environment. I can think of a thousand-and-one examples and that should be laid down in a protocol. There's no protocol. In response to Mr De Groot, the Secretary of State then indicated that screens could also be hung in an abattoir. All this has consequences that I can't overlook. I'm not taking responsibility for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u185	That point is clear. Then I'll look at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u186	There are already abattoirs making footage and there is even a single butchery that the NVWA also has to look at that footage. This motion suggests that the NVWA should stop looking at those images, but of course that is not the case in practice. The intention is to record everything neatly in agreements on how the NVWA gets access to these images and how they all happen in practice. If Mrs Lodder says that there must be proper agreements before this is used as a standard part of regular supervision, then I can state that this is precisely what is intended. That would be a policy support. However, that is not in the motion. Something else is being asked in the motion, and that is why I remain silent about this motion. I come to speak about the motion on item No. 919 in which the government is asked to inform the Chamber of how the NVWA will carry out that task within its current capacity. I am, of course, prepared to do so. As I said, it can be done within the existing budget and capacity. The cost to business will not increase either. I will inform the Chamber of the manner in which the NVWA is carrying out the task, and I will do so after the protocols we have just concluded. Then we can put it in concrete terms. That leaves the House to decide on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u187	Thank you. We're getting to the last motion, in part no. 920.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u188	In the motion in part No. 920 is requested by the Government to monitor the way images are obtained and used by the slaughterhouse and NVWA, and how this monitoring affects the work in the slaughterhouse, and to report to the Court within one year. I can leave the vote on the motion to the Chamber provided that I can interpret the motion in such a way that the Chamber is informed one year after the agreements enter into force, so that it will not work for more than a year. Within a year from now, there is not enough information to assess what the camera surveillance adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u189	I shall look at the author of the relevant interpretation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u190	That's fine. It's really about watching the protocols work and seeing how that's going to work out for privacy, employee protection and prevention, making sure this doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u191	That leaves the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-24-tweedekamer-4.u192	This brings us to the end of this 30-member debate. The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs for this debate, as well as the Members.
