ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u1	We will begin today with the VSO Implementing modified motion of the Member Lodders on an exemption from CRISPR/Cas9. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State and the speakers. At the beginning of the afternoon meeting, we are going to vote on the motions submitted to this VSO. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Esther Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We regularly talk in this Chamber about genetech, genetic manipulation of crops. Something crazy happened this summer. The government has drawn up a position paper, a vision, on the question before it, without first discussing it with the Chamber. Rules have been agreed on genetically modified crops: safety must be guaranteed and there must be freedom of choice. There's some discussion about that, because there are new techniques. And suddenly, without consulting the Chamber, the Dutch Government has taken a step forward in the European debate on this issue. The unfortunate thing is that previously adopted motions from the Chamber which say that freedom of choice must be preserved and that labelling must be in order have been ignored by the Cabinet. When we asked about this in the written consultation and asked whether they would then be included in the new course, the Secretary of State said: that is what the Minister of VWS is about and that will come later. We think that's a weird thing to do. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 23 February 2017, the Court ruled by a majority that safety and freedom of choice should be maintained as a pillar of biotechnology policy, and (so) also stated by a majority that final products of processing techniques involving DNA intervention should be identifiable as such;]] [[noting that lack of labelling significantly reduces the freedom of choice of farmers, growers and consumers;]] [[noting that the Dutch Government intends to have officials present a vision at the Modern Biotechnology Conference in Agriculture on how new processing techniques should be assessed, including techniques involving action at DNA level;]] [[calls on the Government to base its vision at this conference on the motions adopted by the Chamber for the preservation of freedom of choice and recognition of processing techniques involving DNA intervention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27428-347]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer to the questions raised last week. Much has been said on this subject in recent years. That is why it is a good thing that we are working vigorously. We had some doubts about the approach. We believe that this dossier should continue to be a priority. The sector must be able to work and retain its leading position. We would like to draw the Secretary of State's attention to the importance of the sector. She knows that, of course, but does she also want to make it clear to her successor that there should be no delay in this dossier? Can the Secretary of State tell us what is going on in other countries? Does it go beyond just the laboratory test at CRISPR/Cas? That's not quite clear. Will it also continue to inform us of the progress of the proposal being discussed tomorrow at the High Level Group in Brussels? Will it continue to actively involve the sector in the future? We have a leading role to play, and as far as my group is concerned, we must continue to play that leading role in the global food issue. So much for my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you very much. Finally, we will go to Mr von Martels on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The members of the CDA Group have also, of course, taken note of the letter on the state of play regarding the implementation of the amended motion by Mr Lodders on an exemption from CRISPR/Cas and the proposal to amend Annex 1B to Directive 2001 on new processing techniques. We have a number of questions about this. Our first question is about the process. We would like to have been informed of the proposals aimed at updating and making the legislation that would be drawn up in the future, even before the discussion at European level takes place. Why wasn't this chosen? In addition, we wonder what the players in the field, the stakeholders, have brought in and whether the Dutch commitment has changed as a result of the discussions with the stakeholders. Can you explain why the opinion of stakeholders has not been followed, which means that the proposal will not be submitted to other Member States? Although more action will certainly be needed on the European debate on new techniques, the members of the CDA Group appreciate discussing the proposals with the Secretary of State before they are introduced at European level. We also have questions about the content. We do not believe that having a fundamental discussion on the structure of European legislation on biotechnology is the proper implementation of the motion calling for a specific exception at European level in the case of plant breeding. We agree with the Secretary of State that a fundamental debate must be held at European level and we welcome the fact that it has taken the initiative in this regard. However, we do regret that there are not two paths, namely: the specific national and European admission of the CRISPR/Cas technique and the general conduct of a European debate on new techniques, not on one proposal but on several possibilities. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's contribution. The Secretary of State has asked to suspend for a few minutes. So that's what we're doing. Stay close.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u7	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State to answer the questions raised and to give a response to the motion tabled by Mr Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr President, thank you very much. Perhaps it would be a good idea to say a few words about the process in the light of the further written consultations. Both Mrs Ouwehand and Mr von Martels suggested that I would come up with a proposal that was not previously communicated with the Chamber. Fortunately, that is the case. On 21 March last, a letter was written to you about CRISPR-Cas and the Lodges motion in which I simply made the proposal to amend Annex I B. By the way, I can imagine that with that amount of letters things sometimes don't look so good on the retina, but it did. As a result, the dialogue with the sector started. Mr von Martels is right that the sector found this proposal difficult. Why? Because they are afraid that if we start working on the directive, we might open Pandora's box and put them in a different position in terms of space and possibilities. The unfortunate thing is that I am being put in an impossible position on this file by your Chamber with the Lodges motion, which I am, as it were, chasing after the rags. That motion says: make sure that these processing techniques can be applied more generously. We have been trying for ten years in Europe to get a different interpretation of the current directive. There's just no such interpretation, that file's stuck at that point. Either you accept that, but then I have to come to you with "I can't carry out the Lodders' motion." I'm sure you'd be very sorry about that, and you wouldn't accept it either. Either you accept that I am indeed taking steps to pull things off in a discussion that does not even lead to decision-making, and then to see how far we can get. That step has been taken and I have really informed you of it. After that, I went into consultation with the sector. It is true that the sector is critical of this, but the other way around, I do not think that doing anything for the sector is an option either. They have undoubtedly also come to your Chamber to say 'do something with that directive'. Then you shouldn't be alarmed at the moment when we are indeed taking a step. I do not think it is going so fast in the sense that we are immediately turning the whole directive upside down. By the way, and I think that is important for Mr Von Martels and others to know, there are two countries that have already had some kind of reprimand from the Commission because they have made an exception in their national regulations for some CRISPR-Cas techniques, and that is not allowed. Recently, in my words, a ukaze has come from Brussels with a very clear message: this cannot be done. That's not a solution. In the letter and in the written consultation I have also explained very clearly what the options are. We're having a discussion tomorrow. It will not lead to decision-making. It is actually an exploration to see if there is any support, including from other Member States, for any other directive to be adopted on this point. If we don't, we have a problem, because then we probably won't get anywhere. If it is, we need to follow very carefully. Of course, I will not only discuss these follow-up steps with the sector, but I will also share them with the Chamber, as we have always included you in this process, in this spring, in the summer and also now, in what we are doing. That leaves me with an assessment of Mrs Ouwehand's motion. That motion calls for two things, namely freedom of choice on the one hand. That's what I'm for. That is what I am saying here, and that is also the commitment of Dutch policy. But Mrs Ouwehand also mentions recognition of processing techniques. The issue of the Lodders' motion is precisely that it gives more room for manoeuvre in this respect in order not to record a particular technique as such. If I were to accept this motion now, I would actually do something that contradicts the previously adopted Lodders motion. It can't be, unless the Chamber feels otherwise, but I don't think it is. For this reason, I must therefore advise against this motion in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u9	Of course, that's the funny part. The Party for Animals has not been in this coalition, that is no secret. A motion from the VVD has been passed and then a motion from the Party for Animals. Within the coalition it is apparently agreed that the motion of the VVD overrulet the later adopted motion of the Party for Animals. After the adoption of the Lodders motion, the Chamber said that the recognition of processing techniques involving DNA intervention should remain regulated and guaranteed. So I'm surprised about that. That's the final verdict of the Chamber. In my opinion, the Secretary of State should feel free to take them into account in the vision she intends to have brought in tomorrow by officials.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u10	I honestly suspect that we will have another vote on your motion by tomorrow. Then we shall indeed see how this Chamber ultimately judges. My point is that I have already been sent out in the spring or something before with the order to carry out the Lodders motion. I'm very loyal to that. I'm gonna do that until someone says no more. I haven't had that message in my eyes so far. It is, of course, nuanced, you know that too, because it is important that you also make that processing possible in a way that is a little easier for the companies that work with it. If this Chamber says that it does not really think it is such a good idea, then that must indeed be demonstrated today during this debate. But the tricky thing is that sometimes there are things in the Chamber that are contradictory, as sometimes happens in the case of directives that are adopted in Brussels. In addition, it is up to the Cabinet to decide how the wording of your previously adopted motion is to be used, which states that final products of processing techniques at DNA level must be identifiable as such. That's what VWS is gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u11	This is a really weird guy. We were aware that the cabinet says: we believe that freedom of choice can also be guaranteed without labelling. After that, the Chamber said: well, we do not trust it; these techniques should simply be recognizable. The cabinet had a vision about how to handle it and the Chamber said: it has to do something else. She's taken a motion. Then there is a discussion about how the cabinet deals with all the motions that have been adopted. The motion adopted by the VVD and the motion subsequently adopted by the Party for Animals will then be discussed in detail by the Secretary of State: it does not play a role in the European debate; you will hear from the Minister for Health. I think that's a really weird guy. I also find it odd that the Secretary of State needs a second statement from the Chamber to know that this recognition for this Chamber is really an issue, as it turned out in February, after we had already seen how the cabinet wanted to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u12	I find it difficult what you are saying, because the debate on recognizability is, of course, an excellent discussion that you should have with the Minister of the United States of America. That doesn't change the fact that there can be room in there to say, "What do you think?', Because that's what this discussion is about. It's a processing that you actually qualify as modification. I know it's very nuanced. I also know it listens closely. Nor is it the case that we want to ignore the fact that this motion is also there, but I did not have the impression that the Lodges motion was, as it were, caught up with retroactive effect. That's not how I read the motion that was passed. I don't think you said that when you filed her. If that proves to be the case now, if there is a retroactive interpretation, that will have to be demonstrated by the vote on your motion today. I just dissuaded that motion, but it's up to the Chamber to decide if she thinks it's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mrs. Ouwehand, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes, Mr. Chairman, excuse me. Very briefly. I should like to add that this is not the case. The Minister of VWS is about how we can properly label the products in the Netherlands. Of course, we have all kinds of discussions about this, but the European rules now say that it must be recognizable if there has been action at DNA level. This Secretary of State is discussing this and may wish to amend those rules. In that context, the motion has been tabled. It is not appropriate to refer to the Minister of the United States of America at the national level if this State Secretary amends the European rules in such a way that this motion may not be implemented. That's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u15	But I really have to go back to the way in which Mrs Ouwehand's motion was tabled at the time. That motion was really not in any way by me, nor, I suspect, by an important part of the Chamber, interpreted as the signal "stop the execution of the Lodders' motion." It doesn't say that either. We're having two discussions. One is about how to make it recognizable that something was done to the DNA. We agree that this must be done. The U.S. Secretary of State is thinking about how to do it nationally. This must also be done at European level, because these are all harmonised proposals. The other point is what you experience as a technique in which the DNA is encrypted. That is what we are discussing. In the motion-Lodders it was said that you should not consider the technique CRISPER/Cas in any case as keying to DNA. If you now say that your motion will reverse that interpretation with retroactive effect, I do not think it is fair in the debate, because that motion was not tabled in my knowledge. That's how me and the cabinet don't experience it. You can do two things very well. You can make that recognizable that's encrypted with the DNA that's something we agree on while you say that you see a number of techniques as processing and so we consider it different. I think that's the discussion. We're really very open in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u16	In today's votes on the motions, the Chamber will give a further ruling on them. Mrs. Ouwehand, I see you at the interrupt microphone. You have now spoken three times; I am not going to allow this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u18	You have a point of order, but you've been three times, so I'm not going to allow any more interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u19	I have a point of order. I have requested those votes for today, but if the Secretary of State replies in this way, I fear that the Chamber will not be able to reach a weighted judgment. So I have to accept that tomorrow the vision will be introduced at the conference without the motions being accepted, but this debate will take more time. I'm canceling the votes. I'm holding my motion, but I'm very dissatisfied with this. You can tell from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u20	Yes, we can see that. We will report that the votes will be cancelled because the motion will be held.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr von Martels, is it necessary for you to make an additional comment after the motion has been held?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would like to have the opportunity to put a question to the Secretary of State, especially in view of what she is going to bring into Europe. I would just like to know whether she makes a difference between native and foreign DNA, because it is very important to know how she deals with this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u23	The answer is yes, of course. Again, in the direction of Mrs Ouwehand and the Chamber, I say that I will keep the Chamber very closely informed of the course of the discussion. It does not now lead to an amendment of directives. It could take years for you to take a next step. In any case, I will ensure that we are always very precise in what we do and do not bring in. We did. In all the letters, in March, in summer and after summer, we have always put all this out loud, I would say, to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-27-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you very much. Then we have come to the end of the VSO. We suspend briefly and then the Chamber continues the debate on palliative care in the district care.
