ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u1	The Minister of Education, Culture and Science replaces the Secretary of State, who is in Brussels. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Two weeks ago, the entire grandstand here was loaded with masters and girls from elementary school. They came in angry: their workload is too high and they earn less than their colleagues in high school while their classes are just as big, their education is just as high and their title is worth just as much. Where they came in angry, they left furiously, because Secretary of State Dekker showed in the debate that they didn't understand anything of their profession. He thought it made sense, that poor reward: after all, a group of toddlers is easier than a group of teenagers? That statement indicates how far away he is from the workplace, from the daily reality of masters and girls. After that, he did not take back this statement in conversation with teachers. This statement led to teachers giving up faith in him. "A shocking and repulsive contempt and misconception," they even call it, "a sacrifice." They're right. So I have only one question for the Minister of Education. Whose side is she on? That of Secretary of State Dekker or that of the teachers? Is she prepared to take back these words here on behalf of the cabinet and apologize to 120,000 masters and teachers who do that important work every day?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me say first of all that I greatly appreciate the commitment and craftsmanship of teachers, both in primary and secondary education. Teachers work hard on the future of our children and deserve our respect. I have also heard that the PO action group in Action stated in an open letter that it was disappointed with the statements made by the Secretary of State in the debate on the workload. They feel that the Secretary of State doesn't take the problems seriously and that's why they don't trust him anymore. Let me say first of all that I very much regret the situation, because it is precisely in education that it is of the utmost importance that we work together, as politicians, together with school leaders, parents, pupils and, above all, teachers. The pressure on the relations between PO in Action and the Secretary of State is not good. I am therefore sure that he too deeply regrets this situation and would like to invest in mutual trust. This was also the subject of a discussion last week between the initiators of PO in Action and the Secretary of State. I understand that it was a spicy conversation, but also a pleasant conversation, in which both parties have gained a better understanding of each other's views. Of course, this does not solve all the problems. Instead of choosing one, I would like to stick together: together with the Secretary of State, as a cabinet, but also with the school leaders, the teachers, the students and everyone who works hard in education. There are two themes, the reward and the workload, which deserve our attention, including mine. They deserve a lot of attention. I'm happy to do what we can still do as a missionary cabinet. I assume, I am sure, that mutual trust is of enormous importance and that it is therefore also a matter of great concern to the Secretary of State. I am sure he wants to invest in maintaining trust and continue to raise together in order to improve education in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thanks to the Minister, who talks about "building together" and "keeping trust" and also refers to "a spicy conversation." The crux is that the teachers did not have to abandon the confidence in the Secretary of State until after the meeting with them by the Secretary of State. Why? Because he did not distance himself from his words, because he once again underlined his understanding of the difference in pay between a teacher in primary school and one in secondary school. So if the Minister says that she wants to hang out, then of course the SP agrees with her very much, but that starts with one thing: the excuses of this cabinet for the words with which it has deeply offended the teachers, 120,000 people. That seems to me to be a necessary step. Obviously, the Secretary of State didn't do that in that conversation. Then let the Minister be the wisest. Again a compelling appeal to the Minister. It is precisely because of cooperation with teachers and the commitment to education that this first step is needed to restore confidence. Apologize!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u5	I have indicated that the Secretary of State also deeply regrets this situation. I can also tell you that he regrets that his words have given rise to the idea that he would not take teachers' concerns seriously. He therefore deplores the situation that has arisen. It needs to be fixed, and that's what he's doing. Maybe you don't do that with one conversation. Maybe it's gonna take more than that. Maybe it's gonna take a thorough talk about the pay scale. Of course, everyone chooses their own words and their own tone. The Secretary of State has indicated what arguments he saw for the pay gap between p.o. and vo. I would add that I see arguments for saying that these differences are very large in a number of respects and that teaching in primary education is perhaps the hardest thing to do. After all, you have to be able from group one to group eight and you have to be able to differentiate. You have to be able to deal with the role of parents. That is a very difficult task. That is what we are going to discuss with you, I hope, and with the schools and the teachers and students. The Secretary of State has promised that the Chamber will receive a further letter in which we will look into the pay gap. In doing so, we shall be getting through very well what has been said last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u6	It's not about the image that was created. It's a standard argument that is often used when someone doesn't want to apologize for what he's said. Then you regret the fuss. That fuss was created precisely by the words of the Secretary of State. I quote: "I think there are arguments for differences in remuneration. You don't just look at the training people have received. A class with adolescents, children who are a little older, is also a bit different." The conflict between almost the entire field of education, the masters and teachers, and the cabinet is not due to an image created, but to the fact that the Secretary of State has stepped on their souls. Then there's nothing but excuses and trying to restore confidence, because in the injury period of a cabinet period an entire professional group can still fight you in the armor, can't be good for anyone. If the Minister is not prepared to do so, I am afraid that the restoration of confidence is still a long way away. Once again, I appreciate the Minister's words when she says that she can think of arguments as to why the work of masters and teachers is perhaps even more important or heavier at primary school. Personally, I don't think we should make a game out of that. Start with excuses, then the restoration of trust comes after.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u7	I have already said that the Secretary of State regrets that his words have given rise to the idea that he would not take teachers' concerns seriously. So I'm not saying it's just an image. Things have happened that the Secretary of State also says he regrets. I do not think it has any added value when I say that I am going to apologize, because there is a need to work between the directors, between the cabinet on the one hand and the profession, the teachers, on the other. That must be based on mutual trust. I can tell you that the Secretary of State is working on this. That is why he also entered into the conversation with PO in Action. We see that the air is not completely cleared up, but the Secretary of State and I continue to work together to take measures that are necessary in this missionary period, as far as we can take them in this missionary state. In short, this is not yet done for us either. We are happy to continue the discussion with PO in Action and other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u8	The Minister says that apology doesn't have much value right now; "because we have to go on." Apologies do have value. That is precisely the condition that teachers have attached to talking to each other again. They've given up trust in the Secretary of State. What conditions do they attach to a follow-up? "We wait for the Secretary of State to apologize and take back his words." Those excuses are therefore of great value. In view of the Minister's previous words, I have one final question. What is the cabinet position: is the difference in remuneration between primary school teachers and secondary school teachers justified or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u9	We sent a letter to the Chamber in February. We have indicated that the reward is a point of discussion. Moreover, we are very pleased that we, as a cabinet, have been able to abandon the zero line that education has long stood for. The remuneration position of teachers is important in order to be able to compete in the labour market as an educational sector. Partly because of the lack of teachers, this deserves continued attention. The Chamber can expect a follow-up letter on this matter before the summer. That's the cabinet position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u10	For the summer of 2017?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u12	Of course, it does not make much sense to ask the Minister for an apology for a statement made by the Secretary of State; I agree with the Minister. Does the Minister agree with me that the argument that the Secretary of State, in the debate that has taken place here, I assume that she has used this in the meantime to avoid thinking at all about the gap in salary between primary school teachers and teachers in secondary education, was really an opportunity argument? I imagine there's nothing you can do about it, and as a cabinet in a missionary state, you don't have an opportunity to solve it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u13	Your question is clear. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u14	... does the Minister agree with me that it is a purely occasional argument in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u16	Does the Minister agree with me that the existence of a Member of Parliament is at least a lot simpler than that of an elementary school teacher?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u17	I have not been to the debate, but I have, of course, seen the shorthand report. I read it in such a way that the Secretary of State has tried to explain how these pay differences have arisen, historically, on the basis of job classification systems and so on. In that debate, he also made a statement about adolescents. I say: everyone chooses their own words and has their own style. I also look at the Secretary of State's statement on his own Facebook page that he prefers not to raise the lowest scale, but to invest more in personal and specific measures. I personally see something in increasing a general scale as a possible measure, but that is what I say as a PvdAer. I also see that there are sometimes sensible things in election programmes, including those of the PvdA, but that is precisely what we can no longer do in a missionary period. So there is a difference in sound colour. That has everything to do with politics. That's what we're here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u18	We are heading towards a considerable shortage of teachers; that is well known. There are as many as 10,000 full-time jobs. So we're talking about more teachers. This shows not only that it is urgent that we invest in education, but also that it is necessary to make the profession more attractive and that teachers receive a great deal of appreciation. We notice that in letters from the Ministry it is very often written about the 'polite workload' or 'experienced workload'; as if it were not real. I am therefore asking a practical question: is it possible in future to refer to 'work pressure' in letters from the Ministry? This is because it does much more justice to the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u19	Let me say first of all that I very much agree with Mrs Westerveld that it is precisely the workload of teachers who experience it that should be at the heart of the task. It is precisely for this reason that we have started to talk about the polite workload, because sometimes work pressure may result from rules that are not recognized as such, which are actually dry wood. You can rest assured that it is one of my greatest frustrations that we have taken so many initiatives on workload and administrative burdens over the past four and a half years. We have done so together with the teachers; think of clean-up and dust comb operations on regulations...... but that this as such does not get through to individual teachers. It is still thought that inspection requirements should be met, whereas they have long since ceased to exist. That has nothing to do with administrative, legal rules, but with the way you experience them. I would like to look at the question of what term you use for this, but I think we agree on the substance that we should, above all, do something about the workload in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u20	You may ask a second supplementary question, Mrs Westerveld, but I will also look at the other members of your group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u21	I know what we are all trying to do about this from this house, but from several studies I am not only talking about the recent research of the NIS, but also about the OECD report and about the conclusions that the Central Statistical Office has been drawing for years now, it appears that education is still the sector with the highest number of burn-out complaints. I therefore believe that we are talking about the workload, while letters from the Ministry also mention the February letter, which sets out the approach to tackling the workload and the shortage of teachers, still mention 'the polite workload'. My question is very simple: can we in future delete the word 'polite' or 'experienced' from those letters and can we just talk about 'work pressure'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u22	The question is whether we are precise enough, because this workload does not arise because we prescribe it or because the inspection requires it. There's a big part of the problem there. A lot of rules have already changed, but in how that gets into the classroom and how a teacher notices something about it, it's still about workload. We can just call that "work pressure," but I don't think that's gonna help us tackle the problem in the right way. Again, I find it less interesting which terms or which adjectives we use. What matters to me is that we cannot hide behind others, govern schools, school leaders or anyone else to work extra hard together with teachers to ensure that they experience more ownership and that their professionalism as a teacher is more appreciated. In that case, reducing the workload and administrative burden is merely a means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u23	When you ask teachers where the workload comes from, most teachers say: the paperwork. As the Minister pointed out, this paperwork is often not from The Hague, but from schools themselves. There are schools that manage to keep that burden down and keep up with that apprenticeship data only in order to really improve education. The VVD has proposed to make these good schools the norm. Secretary of State Dekker has already started this very well through the Operation Rules Roaming. We have tabled a motion which seeks to: come up with Operation Rules Spare 2.0, so that many more schools can learn from those good schools. That motion has been passed. Can the Minister indicate whether we can hear how this will be extended before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u24	Yes, I admit that, because just one of the actions I pointed out, Operation Rules Spare, we have been working together with the schools in recent years. I also note that schools deal with this differently. I also note that there are misunderstandings about registrations which are believed to be mandatory but which are not. A brochure on these misunderstandings will be published for schools in June. I admit that the Chamber will receive the information on this brochure and on Operation Rules Spare 2.0 at the same time before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u25	I think we agree that the position of teachers in primary education is under pressure. This was confirmed today in the ROA's report on the teacher's status and image in the 21st century. This shows, among other things, that the pay gap between p.o. and to have just increased. I'm glad to hear the Minister shares that concern. Is it also prepared to play a role of its own in helping to remove the unrest that has arisen, which is understandable to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u26	Once again, the Secretary of State wishes to do everything in his power to maintain that mutual trust. I note that I deeply regret the situation that has arisen. Should one of the parties most concerned make a personal appeal to me to play a role, I will consider, in consultation with the Secretary of State, where this is useful and desirable, but let there be no misunderstanding that the Secretary of State also sees that we need to work on trust. I already referred to the conversation he had last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u27	Anyone who speaks to the Chamber from that place will do so on behalf of the entire cabinet. That was the Secretary of State, and that's the Minister now. So I do not think she can say that she is here on behalf of a party. In fact, this is a unique moment for the entire missionary cabinet to remove the cold between the angry teachers and the cabinet, which has actually made a glitch. I would like to ask the Minister one more time if she would acknowledge that the Secretary of State has said something very unwise and that he should have taken it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u28	I have just said and I repeat that everyone chooses their own words and has a different style, that the Secretary of State also regrets the unrest that has arisen about the pay differences and that the Chamber receives a letter from the Cabinet for the summer on follow-up steps. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-tweedekamer-2.u29	Thank you.
