ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-5.u1	Henk van Rossum, former leader of the SGP, died on 17 June. I would like to welcome his family, his four daughters, their partners and children. I would also like to welcome Bas van der Vlies and Koos van den Berg. And I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister, Louis Asscher. He speaks on behalf of the cabinet. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand as far as possible. Today we commemorate Henk van Rossum, former MP and group chairman of the SGP. Van Rossum said goodbye to the Chamber in 1986. He began as a Member of Parliament in 1967, in a turbulent time when younger generations openly opposed authority and authority in the Netherlands. Provo kept fun action with the sweetheart. The anti-authoritarian upbringing brought her in. There was a wave of democratisation within many public institutions. In the Lower House you saw this in the order to rejuvenate MPs, who almost every political party imposed themselves. Even the SGP, which by the way was not happy with the rattling relations of authority in the country, had this influence. In this party there was a call, particularly among young people, not only for the policy of testimony to be applied, but also for the practical work of the Chamber. That's why they were looking for new blood. On that wave, Henk van Rossum entered the room. An engineer instead of a reverend, sometimes shrouded in gray suits instead of standard black. Free, but convinced of God's word and the Divine guidance that determines human action. So the ideal man to give the SGP a new face. And so it was. Van Rossum understood what was needed to play the political game and was very well able to connect his religious principles directly to the practical, political handicrafts. That had to do with three properties he had at his disposal. First of all, he was an excellent professional. Van Rossum was trained as an engineer of civil engineering. After the flood disaster, he helped get the water back behind the dikes. He then held various functions in the field of Traffic and Water State. So he knew what he was talking about in his files Agriculture and Fisheries, and Traffic and Water State. Ministers and Secretary of State were alert when Henk van Rossum took the floor. You didn't get away with vagueness or talking around him. He asked for it, and if you didn't take care of it, you could be pretty cornered. A second feature is that Van Rossum managed to combine this expertise with a great service to the people for whom he did it: farmers, gardeners, fishermen and the people of the waterboards. He understood their concerns and understood what it took to make effective policies. His origins helped him, because Van Rossum was a farmer's son with a great passion for farming. His most important achievement was perhaps the initiative law in his name on the water supply of agricultural land. He was the first SGP man to pull this off. But his most striking trait was his cheerful character. Van Rossum had a sense of humor and loved good food and drink. He was sometimes called a Bourgondian by fellow chamber members. He had a generous smile, according to my predecessor Dick Dolman the most roaring smile of all Members of Parliament at that time. And he was very eager to meet his colleagues, right through political differences. Perhaps his boldness has also led to him being reminded not only of that famous law, but also of that one unforgettable statement, which we often hear in politics. Following the RSV survey, he concluded that then Minister Van Aardenne was "shot game." That statement was, moreover, part of his argument against a motion of censure. Because, according to Van Rossum's argument, shot game can recover if the bullet isn't deadly. But that nuance died in tradition. Henk van Rossum has been party chairman of the SGP in the Chamber for the last five years, but his heart went most to the craft Chamber work. Through his outstanding craftsmanship, his practical and religious service, his happiness and his love for politics, he has meant an incredible amount in the beautiful areas he had under his care. On behalf of the Chamber, I would like to offer my condolences to his family, relatives and colleagues in the SGP. It must be a sad time for them. I wish them a great deal of strength. I now give the floor to the Deputy Prime Minister, Louis Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-5.u2	Madam President. For his last great speech as foreman of his party, engineer Henk van Rossum chose in 1986 a biblical motto that also typified him personally. "Distance from evil, do good, seek peace, and pursue it," he quoted from Peter's first letter. He has practiced these words throughout his long and rich life. He did so by rejecting all the evils that did not fit his deeply rooted beliefs, but also by his mild focus on results, consensus and cooperation, and certainly not only in his own circle. Mr Van Rossum attached conviction to substantive knowledge and he maintained the principle without being a sharpener. Many also boast his happiness, his sense of humor and his fetching laugh. And all those traits made him, beyond party boundaries, a highly valued and respected MP. The explanation for this link between principle and practical results is pressing when we look at Henk van Rossum's walk of life. He was a son of Flakkee and grew up in a family whose father was active for decades in the Reformed Party of Reverend Christmas. That was the dolphin of his childhood. At the same time, he was an authoritative civil engineer, trained in Delft, with a great love for everything related to the water state. So a man who also thought in technical solutions. Or, as former room chairman Dick Dolman once wrote about him: "What flows over the field is God's water, but how it flows, man must help." It's a beautiful typography. This attitude is also recognizable in his more general political vision. For a deep gap between principle and practical politics, Henk van Rossum's thinking was no place. Those two could and should go together with, though, a clear hierarchy among themselves. "It's easier to confine yourself only to testimony," he said once, "but I think you should also let yourself be heard about the practical aspects of the things that are being discussed in Parliament. I do, but always in the full conviction that there is a higher leadership that the government should be aware of. That always comes first for me." Madam President. Humanly speaking, the death of engineer Henk van Rossum at the age of 97 ended an extremely rich and well-spent life. A life that was borne by God's confidence, work lust and social commitment to a very old age. I wish his family and his party mates all the strength and consolation. What remains are the warm memories of a man who departed from evil, did good and sought peace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-5.u3	I would ask those present to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-29-tweedekamer-5.u4	I'm suspending the meeting so you can offer your condolences to the next of kin.
