ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on a new gas find over Schiermonnikoog. A warm welcome to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is the first debate with this minister, even the environmental movement, who says he is super smart, fast and pragmatic. That means something. I can't wait to see how he's gonna choose. Is he clearly opting for a better climate policy? So does he choose to carry out Paris, which means that of the well-known gas reserves, about 50% of which must be kept underground, the Netherlands has already taken 80% of its gas reserves above ground, or does he choose to remove the last scraps of junk gas from small fields near our beautiful world heritage? Does this minister choose to listen to the residents? Does he choose the common woman, the common man who lives on one of the islands or go on vacation there? Does he choose to listen to the municipalities in the Wadden region, to the province and to the water boards? Or does he choose to give people like Rijkman Groenink and Marcel van Poecke, the owners of Hansa, the company that wants to drill there, a gift of a few million? For those who are interested: this can be read in an article in Het Financieele Dagblad in September 2017. Does this minister choose peace, nature and employment, among other things in recreation on the islands, or does he choose to disrupt the fragile ecosystem with the chance that this will affect nature on the islands? Does he choose to bring up anything we can get out of the ground, because this might be worth some money? Or does he choose innovation? This minister, when he had another position, I heard enthusiastically about innovation. Now gas underground is a fantastic raw material that you can do anything with. The most primitive way to use such a raw material is to put it up once, after which you've lost it and you've only got pollution and CO left behind. The generations after us and even the present generations find all kinds of beautiful applications for different forms of carbon that are underground. Gas is a nice feed stock, which we can make of everything. So the questions are: does he choose the climate, the Paris Treaty and a beautiful energy agreement? Then he chooses a moratorium. Does he choose to listen to the ordinary woman, the common man and the drivers in the North? Then he chooses a moratorium. Does he really choose innovation and to use those beautiful raw materials for future applications? Then tonight, this Minister is going to opt for a moratorium on gas extraction in our Wadden Islands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u3	I share it; if there is a danger to humans and animals we will lie down for that too. That's why I'm going to have a few questions about it right away. There must also be social support. You mentioned the motion on Schiermonnikoog. But the windmills, which GroenLinks has always been very much in favour of, cause a lot of misery for animals and for nature, as well as mental damage for people. We have only experienced in Leidschendam-Voorburg how much misery a windmill causes. Do you intend to fight this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u4	I am very much in favour of placing the energy of the future, which comes from wind, among other things, in such a way that it causes no or very little damage to birds in this case. For example, a motion from me has been adopted to place windmills on the Afsluitdijk. In addition, very careful attention has been paid to bird connoisseurs. There is now a monitoring system that tracks which birds fly at what altitude. Those mills can also be turned off. Such a regime is important to me for windmills. But we must not forget that unfortunately many more animals die in our traffic, in air traffic, in high-voltage towers and simply fly against our built environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u5	But there was another expert with me tonight who did research into windmills, including porpoises and marine mammals. That's really pathetic. I therefore hope that you will support us in our efforts to combat this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u6	I am certainly also in favour of preserving marine mammals that can suffer from underwater noise. I'm in favour of modern techniques to build windmills so that they don't give so much noise. For that is what Mr Graus is referring to, I think: that these animals are really suffering terribly. There are techniques that avoid that. Together with Mr Graus, I am in favour of all life in the sea being well managed, preserved and guarded, not only for ourselves, but also for generations after us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u7	There is another question from Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u8	It's an energy transition. In the coming period we really need some gas. I believe that Europe is importing 200 billion cubic metres of Russian gas. If GroenLinks is allowed to make the choice, does it say: can you get it out of the North Sea and use it as a transition fuel? Or does it say: I prefer to use that Russian gas, because it will?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u9	We have laid down the choice of GroenLinks in very detail in our program and our billing. In it you can see exactly what we want to do. I actually missed the VVD as a partner in both applying all kinds of innovations very quickly to get gas consumption down if it really stands up for the world heritage and for Groningen. So yes, I agree with Mr Bosman that you cannot get rid of the gas from today to tomorrow. But it's like losing weight or learning a new language. If you never start, you'll never speak Spanish. Then you really have to punch 20 words every week. When it comes to making pace with the energy transition I really missed the VVD in the past. I'm hoping for new rounds now, new opportunities. We have a new minister. I hope we're all gonna make a lot more pace. Then we can actually reduce the gas consumption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u10	We need to speed up; I agree with that. The VVD is on the side of GroenLinks, or GroenLinks is on the side of this new cabinet, which is very ambitious. The Paris Agreement is simply being implemented. We're gonna do a lot of work on that. Still, that gas's gonna stay for a while. So I'm asking: if you have to choose, do you choose the Russian gas? The carbon footprint of Russian gas is 30% larger than that of the gas we win locally. So you can choose not to use anything from the Netherlands, but if we use Russian gas, we will increase the carbon footprint again. What choice does GroenLinks make?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u11	I am very happy that the VVD is extremely concerned about the ecology and foot print of the countries around us. First of all, I think that we should take good care of this for our own country too. Mr Bosman and I both know that Russian gas is simply not suitable for heating, cooking potatoes and domestic use. So it's actually a sham contradiction when you say: do you prefer Russian gas or do you want Dutch natural gas? Because that Russian gas doesn't fit in our gas stoves, we can't cook with it and it's not a replacement. So we have to take the houses off the gas, we have to remove the new construction of the gas, and we have to start heating our houses in a different way and cook in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u12	There is a contradiction here that I have not shown, because for the households you have the Groninger gas, but the industry still uses high-caloric gas, also very much. So that's still an option to use. That's a clarification of my position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u13	So the question is not so much how we get rid of Groningen gas, because this gas find at Schiermonnikoog would have the quality with which it can be mixed into the ordinary household gas network. That's why I assumed the Russian gas wouldn't be a substitute for that. Not all the time I have been in the Chamber, we are doing these debates together, but I have been thinking here for six years that the pace at which we are going off the Groningen gas must be enormously increased and that the amount of exports must also be reduced as quickly as possible. I assume that we will take greater steps with the new cabinet. The Russian gas is not a substitute for that. We both know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u14	Thank you, Mrs Van Tongeren. I shall now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A warm welcome to the Minister. I look forward to the debates that we are going to have to make the Netherlands fully revolve around renewable energy as soon as possible. The reason for this debate is the gas find in the North Sea, above Schiermonnikoog, at the end of September. Two weeks after that discovery, the new coalition presented its coalition agreement, with a clear message that we need to reduce greenhouse gases. In this way, there will be no new gas detection permits on land, but there was nothing about gas in the sea. On 31 May, the Advertising Code Commission found that advertisements that called gas "a part of clean energy" were misleading. That makes sense, because gas is a fossil fuel. The combustion results in CO and the extraction causes damage to nature and the environment. In addition, natural gas mainly consists of methane, a greenhouse, many times stronger than CO. Natural gas itself therefore also contributes significantly to climate change; you do not even have to burn it for that. According to the United Nations, the prevention of methane leakage is one of the most effective and cheapest measures to reduce greenhouse effect. German researchers published a study at the end of August on methane leakages in the North Sea: 3,000 to 17,000 tons of methane leaks out every year. This also happens in the case of holes that are not used for a long time. What can the Minister do to prevent methane leakage at those wells in the sea? Last week, climate scientists from Manchester University reported that the global use of gas and coal is so high that the Paris climate targets will not be met. Gas was explicitly mentioned as part of the problem and not as part of the solution, including the methane leakages mentioned. Does the Minister agree with the Advertising Code Commission, those climate scientists and I agree that gas is not a clean fuel and that gas should not be called "transition fuel" for that reason either? Mr. Chairman. There is another argument against the extraction of gas above Schiermonnikoog: the possible effect on the Wadden Sea. We know that gas extraction causes soil decline and that this, combined with rising sea water levels, can pose a serious threat to the vulnerable Wadden Sea. The unique ecosystem that we are obliged to protect is in danger of drowning. The precise effects on the Wadden Sea are not yet known. A letter will follow, but given the vulnerability of the area and the climate ambitions of the cabinet, gas extraction near Schiermonnikoog should not take place. Mr. Chairman. The new cabinet has decided not to issue land-based extraction permits for natural gas. However, natural gas extracted at sea is just as polluting as natural gas extracted on land. The Animal Party therefore invites the Minister not to issue extraction permits for marine natural gas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u16	Mr Wassenberg said that there would be no new permits for land gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u17	Search permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u18	Yeah, no new BOLOs. Does Mr Wassenberg have an estimate of what percentage of the Netherlands is not yet covered by a permit for gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u19	No, I can't answer that question. You'll have to put it to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u20	Well, then maybe we can put it to the minister together. How much of the mainland of the Netherlands doesn't have a permit yet? I myself think that this is only a very small piece and that it is not about parts where gas is possible. So that's what it says, but I don't think it means that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u21	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u22	So basically it just says: we're going to go to the only places where we can still issue new permits, with new permits. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me or does he see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u23	Yes, I agree with you and I also believe that no licences should be issued for the sea. So I'd like to expand that. Maybe the Minister was listening so he could answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u24	Thank you. Mrs Beckerman of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u25	Mr. Chairman. Sinterklaas exists and he is in box K: the sintering class for Shell and the fossil energy, at least as it seems. This cabinet with three ministers who once worked for Shell, including this minister, is already called Shell I. Santa Claus to Shell. The cabinet gave in to Shell, but not yet to the lobby of all the people who want to stop the gas extraction. This is the Minister's baptism of fire, and I also call it a good opportunity. Are you from Shell, are you from the fossil industry or are you from us? The consequences of gas extraction are a disaster. In Groningen, according to the GGD, the number of people with multiple health problems increased by 80% in one year. There are deep cracks in hearts and houses. People have lost their dreams and their grip on the future. And despite fine words about phasing out gas extraction, possible gas extraction as a sword of Damocles hangs over many communities in the Netherlands: in Fryslân, the Green Heart, Drenthe and many other places, including Schiermonnikoog. The extraction of gas above Schiermonnikoog is undesirable for many. Residents, civil society organisations, municipalities and provinces are protesting. Does the Minister wish to speak out against this gas extraction? And what control does the minister intend to give to the municipalities, residents and provinces? The Groninger Soil Movement, Gasberaad, Do not lower Fryslân and the Wadden Association with the three northern provinces signed last week at the Northern Climate Summit a final declaration for accelerated reduction of gas extraction. The Netherlands still does not have a phasing-out plan for the current gas extraction. We have had this proposal put to the vote on several occasions. Will the Minister support that? In 2015, the ChristianUnion filed a motion not to compensate for the decline in gas extraction in Groningen with gas extraction from small fields or to tap new locations. In 2016, the ChristianUnion tabled a motion not to allow new drillings in the Wadden Sea. Both motions were supported by D66, GroenLinks, SP, Party for the Animals and one also by 50PLUS. In the meantime, I understand that the Labour Party is also part of this. I hope that the Christian Union and D66 government parties will now support these motions and their electoral programme. Mr. Chairman. The fossil industry is still very powerful and influential. The government often seems to be on her side. The cabinet plays Sinterklaas for Shell by abolishing the dividend tax, but the government's support for the gas sector continues. The gas find at Schier was made by a consortium consisting of Hansa, Oranje-Nassau and Energy Management Netherlands. The State is 100% owner of EBN (Energy Management Netherlands). The gas find at Schiermonnikoog is done with our money. We want to get rid of the gas, but we are looking for gas with public money. Does the Minister still think so of this time of year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u26	Thank you. Mr Graus, from the PVV, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I'd also like to introduce myself to the Minister. I am Dion Graus of the Party for Freedom. Most of the secretaries of state and government are always present, but I have not yet seen Mr Wiebes, which is why I do so myself. I remember very well that Mrs Dijksma, who is back in the Chamber, immediately invited us to have a drink with some delicious food. That's how it works. We all have to work together anyway. He can take an example. Madam President. I find this debate very problematic. And why? Mr Wassenberg has already pointed it out: not everything is known. Nor can we see the consequences. That is also the reason why I have not recently supported two motions to oppose this. When it comes to Groningen, which Mrs Beckerman mentioned, we have always supported everything. We also want gas extraction to be further reduced and we want everything we have to be kept as a strategic reserve. There it appeared that there is literally danger for the people, and also the mental damage that Mrs Beckerman has already claimed. We've all been together several times. Mrs Van Tongeren has been there a thousand times. Then we will intervene too and we will lie before it. Now I can't get a good look at it. I already mentioned the windmills. That is also not optimal for nature and for animals; we just have to be honest about that. Gas extraction will not be either, but I cannot see what the damage is going to be and whether it is going to be much worse than some windmills. I don't know. Those are also questions I ask the Minister, because he has hundreds of officials for them and I have one and a half policy staff, so I can never compete with them either. We won't be able to figure it out until the Minister can. When it comes to energy, heat, primary necessities of life, we always consider it important: security of supply, affordability for everyone, including for Jan with the hat, but also independence from abroad. Mr Bosman of the VVD has already mentioned the gas roundabout. We can import gas and act on it, and you name it all, but we must also ensure that we are and remain independent from abroad, as far as possible. That also plays a role. I'd like to know how much damage that gas extraction is going to cause. What are the results of that? Mr Wassenberg also asked, because he has not yet been informed. He's a biologist and all kinds of things, but I hope he's not gonna make premature motions here that we can't support, and then he's gonna say, "Look, look, our animal friend doesn't support it." That's not how it works. We must have everything on the table. But we have to be careful. In my interruption to Mrs Van Tongeren, I also said that humans and animals have been above economic interest in us for 11 years. This is evident from our voting behaviour and certainly from the actions and from my own input. Whatever I think is very important, and then I'm going to finish, because I see that my time is almost over. That unanimously adopted motion from Schiermonnikoog's city council. With us, it is very important whether there is sufficient public support. It turns out there isn't. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that, too. We are in favour of referendums, preferably binding referendums. If the public does not agree with it at all, if there is insufficient public support, then we cannot and should not want it. I would have liked a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u28	Mr Graus does not want premature motions, but does he agree with me that there can be a lot of reasons to oppose this gas extraction? You are indeed talking about the effects on the Wadden Sea. It is 20 km above it, but the gas fields are considerably closer than those 20 km from Schier. In addition, methane is a greenhouse gas that even the United Nations say: make sure you reduce the leakages. Anywhere where drills are drilled, leaks occur, sometimes even years later. There are therefore several arguments against this gas extraction. Does Mr Graus agree with me that it is more than just the effect on the Wadden Sea?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u29	I'll share that. I'll direct that question to the Minister immediately, because you just did. I also ask the Minister to respond. In the past, we have shown that we do not accept it when there is a danger to humans and animals, and also in the absence of social support. I'd like to know what the consequences are. I really can't see that right now. Mr. Wassenberg, you may believe me, I myself am a great fan of the Wadden. If I'm not in Limburg, I'm somewhere on the Wadden, on the Wadden Islands, but I'm also in the nature reserve. So I like it personally, too. The people there know that, too. So I know what's going on there and I know the concerns that are there, but first I would like a response from the Minister. I'm not gonna walk in front of the music. I have no expertise in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u30	I am not asking Mr Graus for any great detail on this matter either. What I would like to ask him is whether he is also convinced that methane is a strong greenhouse gas that should remain in the ground for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u31	Once again, the Minister will answer that in a moment. As a biologist, you know that better than I do, but I do understand why you're asking the question. He was guided here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u32	I think I fully understand Mr Graus. We are, of course, at the beginning of a huge journey that is still taking a very long time. This is an investigative discussion where when we start talking about possible extraction, there are still a lot of reports, investigations, conversations and cases to follow. I believe that Mr Graus is not alone in his search for the answers, because I think everyone has that search. This concerns the course of the Mining Act. Does Mr Graus agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u33	That's right. I started with the story about security of supply, affordability and independence. I am now replacing Mr Madlener who is ill, but I was also a spokesperson for energy between 2006 and 2010, and I started almost every energy debate with that story. At first you should be happy if there is a gas find and if it turns out that humans and animals are not affected or at least are not affected by it. But they also suffer from windmills, we have to be honest about that. As an animal ambassador I always say: every animal you keep at home is also not optimally happy, that is also all second best. So we're often in a second best situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u34	Thank you, Mr Graus, I would also like to reassure you, because this Minister has the intention of inviting Members, but not until after the committee has been finally adopted. So I'm sure you're waiting for another invitation, at least the clerk just told me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u35	Well, the Limburg beer and the Limburg pie are ready when he arrives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u36	That's good. I call Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of myself and my group, too, a word of welcome to the Minister. I look forward to working together. It is nice to have the first debate on the beautiful subject of the Wadden region, which is UNESCO World Heritage and pearl of the Dutch nature reserves. The fact that 20 kilometres north of Schiermonnikoog the largest gas field has been found in 25 years raises a number of questions for my group. Earlier this year, energy company ENGIE abandoned a test drill at Schiermonnikoog and now the islanders still have to fear drilling platforms off their coasts. The consortium of companies will investigate in the coming years whether there is gas in the rest of the area and probably next year they want to carry out another poufboring. Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has debated the Mining Act extensively. The new Mining Act better anchors social support and the position of provinces and municipalities. The city council of Schiermonnikoog unanimously voted against pilot drilling and against gas extraction in a motion. My question to the Minister is how he will take this statement with him in the follow-up to the trial. The new Mining Act has also become much stricter for sensitive nature areas and for environmental protection. The creation of a mining work is explicitly excluded for the Wadden Sea and the Wadden Islands and a sloping drilling outside the Wadden Sea area is possible but even then strict requirements apply to nature protection and to the limitation of visual impairment. My question to the Minister is whether he can confirm that, on the basis of the legislation, there is special protection for the Wadden Islands, the Wadden Sea and the North Sea coastal zone in the further process, including any test drilling or possible extraction. What does this particular protection look like when granting environmental permits and mining permits? Does the possible extraction of gas from a field of such a huge size not necessarily have a major impact on nature and soil decline in the Wadden region? Mr. Chairman. It is worrying that in May of this year the State surveillance of the Mines has fingered the NAM about the reliability of studies on soil decline due to gas extraction under the Wadden Sea. For years gas has been extracted without knowing exactly what its consequences are. How is the Minister going to prevent this from happening again with Hansa, if we are indeed going to test drilling and possible extraction? In what way will it improve the monitoring of soil decline, as well as monitoring and enforcement? Mr. Chairman. This week, the Minister is going to the climate summit in Bonn, if I am well informed. Last week the Northern Climate Summit was held. The North wants to be the green outlet of the Netherlands and is already far away with innovative solutions for sustainability and energy storage. How does the possible extraction from the new gas field fit in with the ambitions for a large-scale energy transition and reduction of gas extraction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u38	Thank you very much. I call Mrs Beckerman. She has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u39	Mrs. Dik-Faber, you are known as the guardian of the Wadden Sea. You've always been a fierce opponent of gas extraction. It is also in the Christian Union election programme: no gas extraction in the Wadden Sea. You have filed several motions, in which you say: no new drilling and compensation for the Groningenveld do not search under the Wadden. Do you still support your electoral programme and the motions that have been tabled and will you not support pilot drilling at Schiermonnikoog?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u40	That's a lot of questions. We discussed the Mining Act with each other during the previous cabinet period. In it, the Wadden region is excluded from new gas extraction sites. It is only possible to drill obliquely under all kinds of conditions. In the area we are talking about today, 20 kilometres from the coast of Schiermonnikoog, there is no mention of the Wadden region. That is why I put questions to the Minister. In fact, this is about the North Sea and not about the Wadden region. In doing so, I do not want to diminish the impact of possible gas extraction, not at all, nor for nature and the environment, nor for sight. That is why I have also asked questions to the Minister: how does he consider the possible consequences of this in his decision? Well, let's face it, there's no drilling yet. We're talking about test drilling. There are still a lot of steps to be taken before a possible extraction permit is issued. We're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u41	It looks like you're buying a little space by not calling this a Wadden area. But you have a clear motion in 2015 (33529, no. 156), of which I shall read out the operative part: "calls on the government not to compensate for the reduced gas production from the Groningen field with higher production from the small fields, the opening of new sites or the extraction of shale gas'. In it, you spoke loud and clear against tapping into new locations. Does the North Sea fall or not under "new locations"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u42	Over the past period, we have had an extensive look at the locations for gas and oil extraction. A test drill is permitted for this location. My group was not present. That was in the previous cabinet period and then we weren't at the table. That was the cabinet period of VVD and Party of Labour. That puts us in front of a fulfilled fact. There is a permit for a test drill. In my view, the legal instrument is missing to say now: we are going to stop doing this. We can say very toughly here "we want to stop and there should be no next trial drilling', but the legal instrument is simply not there. If Mrs Beckerman thinks that there is, I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can confirm that, because once again: we have looked closely at this. Does this bore make me happy? No, but we don't have the instruments in our hands, because this is just licensed. There's nothing we can do about that, thanks to the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u43	My compliments on Mrs Dik-Faber's fine contribution. A lot of things resonate with me. We've also spent a lot of time together in this file. Both she and I know that there were permits for shale gas drilling granted to Quadrilla, for example, and that the previous Minister of Economic Affairs did set up a moratorium at that time. I have several motions here, including your name. The legal solution 'do the same as the previous minister' could, should one so wish politically. One of the conditions in the motion under which your name is also mentioned is that it is only when adjustments have been made to the gas building and which have been discussed with the Chamber that further progress can be made. That is a motion of 28 April 2015. It aims to suspend it until, among other things, those changes to the gas building have been discussed. Does Mrs Dik-Faber still support the idea that it is logical that you should first implement the recommendations of the OVV, including the adaptation of the gas building, before proceeding with any search or extraction permits?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u44	I'm gonna have to take a closer look at that motion. I understand perfectly well that I am now being called forward with the question of whether I am still behind that. I'm just gonna have to take a look at the motion. Once again, over the last few years, my group has looked carefully at the possibilities of placing permits in place. This has led to the conclusion that new land-based extractions will no longer be authorised. That is also included in the coalition agreement. However, it has also been concluded that there is no legal basis for withdrawing existing licences and this existing licence for a test drill. To my best knowledge, that's the situation. That's the information I have. That is the way the agreements have been made. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u45	You just said that, too: I can't do it with my best knowledge. But it still happened. There is no drilling for shale gas in the Netherlands while it is licensed. Withdrawal may not be possible, but a moratorium is therefore possible. I have a motion to call on the Minister to do so, unless, of course, he himself spontaneously promises a moratorium. If a moratorium is possible, would the Christian Union consider supporting such a moratorium? So you do not withdraw the permit, you just say: I want to have a number of things taken care of, for example, reorganising the gas building before we can possibly proceed with the granting of a mining permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u46	But there is no such thing as a mining permit. In my opinion, a number of test drillings are first carried out to see what exactly the size of the gas field is and how it can be won. We're just far from being at the stage of a mining permit. I am always prepared to look closely at good proposals from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I am also curious to hear the Minister's response on this point. GroenLinks is now talking about a mining permit, but I think there are a lot of steps to be taken before we get there. During a previous cabinet period, this Chamber amended the Mining Act, with tremendous guarantees that procedures are working properly. Let's make the decisions at the right time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u47	Mr President, another small interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u48	Very briefly, because I also allowed Mr Bosman to do so. So I have to be reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Does Mrs Dik-Faber know that a mining permit has never been refused in the Netherlands where a search permit has been granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u50	I also refer this question to the Minister. I would be very surprised, especially with the new Mining Act in which we, as a Chamber in broad composition, have agreed carefully with all political parties on process steps. But maybe the Minister can respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u51	Thank you. Mr Bosman of the VVD has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u52	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Welcome to this minister. There's a great ambition for him on the board. I always said the previous cabinet, Rutte II, was the greenest cabinet ever. The ambition of this cabinet is to become even greener, so the greenest cabinet ever. This Minister has a very important role to play in this. I wish him every success and wisdom in that. Mr. Chairman. 98% of the houses use natural gas to heat the house. That's a lot of houses. The transition must ensure that all houses are free of natural gas by 2050 at the latest. That sounds far away, but it's not. It's quite a task. The Netherlands has over 7.5 million homes. We therefore need to start quickly to stop connecting the new construction to gas and to take the approach to removing the existing construction of the gas in a speedy manner. So we will not be off that gas tomorrow, in a year or ten years' time, however much we would like it to be, not only in the interests of reducing CO2 emissions, but also in the interests of the Groningen people. The sooner we are able to take the households off the gas, the better it is for the residents of Groningen. Thus, the task in the housing sector is already large, but the industry must also participate in the transition. The cabinet wants industry using Groninger gas to switch to high-caloric, also to further limit gas extraction in Groningen. If we have the choice of gas from the North Sea, from small fields or from Russia for example, then the VVD chooses gas from the North Sea or from the small fields. Now we are talking about a possible gas find that has not yet been authorised for extraction. Of course that must be done carefully, but that is why we adopted a new Mining Act two years ago, which must weigh all the interests of the various stakeholders, such as now the directors and residents of Schiermonnikoog, before a permit can be issued. We're in the middle of that process right now. The VVD has confidence in the Mining Act and also confidence in the Minister, that he is going to give it a serious meaning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u53	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u54	Also in the small interruption debate with Mr Bosman there was concern about the footprint abroad in terms of gas. We were better off getting that from our own country. Does that also apply to other fossil fuels? Should we not take it from abroad because it is so incredibly bad for their environment and their quality of life?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u55	No, I didn't say that. If you transport Russian gas this way, you make the carbon footprint much bigger. That's because you take it from far away and have to transport it. There's gonna be a cost. There's also a lot of leakage. The Russians are a little simpler at that. If a pipe has to be repaired, for example, they just pop into the air and stuff like that. Based on this, the carbon footprint is much larger, not so much because it happens abroad but because the way it works is very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u56	For roughly how many years of Dutch gas consumption would we still have in our small fields, does Mr Bosman think? And what are we gonna do after that? The problem he is putting forward is correct. How many years would we have domestic gas, if we cut off Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u57	That's pretty limited. So I am also pleased with gas discoveries in the North Sea. I think we should certainly use it and continue to use it. Those are opportunities we all have. Yeah, that means that if we're going to use that high-caloric gas, we have to make sure that we can get it from different places, but also that we have to be careful about that. In Europe, we have agreements with different customers. We can also get it from Norway, but also then you take it from further away. You have to weigh all these things against each other. So the concerns remain great. It's a little rude, but that's why we have to gas with the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u58	Thank you. I call Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u59	Mr. Chairman. I can replace my colleague Agnes Mulder tonight, who is with a parliamentary delegation to the UN climate summit in Bonn. She gave me a piece of lyrics. She could have said the following. It is my pleasure to discuss this house together with the new Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. There have been many debates with his predecessor on energy, climate and gas extraction. The Minister can rest assured that he too will be invited often. For the CDA, it is important that we use the energy transition together with the inhabitants to achieve a sustainable energy supply. We will continue to address the Minister. With regard to the gas finding under the North Sea, 20 kilometres north of Schiermonnikoog, the CDA wonders how the current legal framework ensures a safe extraction for the environment and nature. The next question we have for the Minister is: what safeguards for the environment and nature are there in the assessment of a possible application for a mining permit? Can the Minister also indicate which natural values might be at stake over the Wadden? Finally, we ask the Minister how gas extraction and use fit within the energy transition. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u60	Thank you very much. There is a question from Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u61	With the support of the CDA, among other things, an amendment to the Mining Act has been adopted which says that municipalities, provinces and water authorities should have advisory rights. Now I know the CDA, also from the entire election period, as a party that keeps calling attention to the following. What do the locals think? Can we do it with people? Shouldn't we hang out? We hear this very often when it comes to windmills or other forms of sustainability. Does the CDA still believe that, as stated in the amendment, municipalities, provinces and water authorities should be seriously involved and should be able to give their opinion and advice in the granting of the search permit, if any, or a mining permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u62	These questions relate to the amendment to which the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance refers, but if I remember correctly, that is also part of the Mining Act. That's just a fact that's in the Mining Act. But then I'm way out of my mind. So I should check that again. You quoted the CDA well, in the sense that we always want to listen to the people who are so close on top of this, I say just as popular.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u63	That amendment has been introduced into the law in a slightly more limited form. Its scope has been preserved. Then I am sure Mr Geurts will also know that not only Schiermonnikoog but all the Wadden municipalities have spoken out against this gas extraction, that the Northern Climate Summit has spoken out against it and that the provinces have also spoken out against it. The water boards are also not very enthusiastic, as far as we have had contact with them. Will this negative position be taken into account by one who is better substantiated than the other by the CDA when considering whether or not gas should be extracted from Schiermonnikoog?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u64	Before gas extraction is carried out, it seems as if drilling is already taking place and that the whole field is being taken into production, there will first have to be a extraction permit with a extraction plan. It has to be assessed, too. I understand that the gas field is part of the 12 mile zone. So there will also have to be an analysis of the seismic risk. So there are still a lot of steps to be taken before gas is extracted. The points where you send it to me are also part of that. But don't pretend we're drilling for gas tomorrow. I think it's gonna take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u65	Thank you very much. There is now a special moment, because Mr Moorlag of the PvdA is holding his maiden speech here tonight. I would like to announce that after Mrs Van Eijs's speech in D66 I will suspend the sitting for congratulations. Of course, there must be no interruptions during Mr Moorlag's maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u66	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this maiden speech I take you to the late sixties, to the Saint Walfridus school in Bedum. I was a primary school student there. In front of the classroom was Mr. Assen. He was the headmaster. He was proud to say that a huge gas bubble had been found under Groningen. I had the image that there would be a huge caverne. He was really proud, because it would bring prosperity. It would bring comfort. He was right, because there was a shower and a geyser at my house. The coal stove went out the door. There was a heated pool in Bedum. The gas was a great gift. That brought prosperity and comfort. And now, almost 50 years later, that image has completely changed. How is natural gas now experienced? It is seen as a great danger, as a source of nuisance, as a source of risks, especially in my province and in Groningen. That great gift has become a great danger. One of my reasons for running for MP was to fight injustice. The great injustice that is being done to Groningen and the Groningen people is, in short, a gross scandal. They fight hard, not so much to put Groningers in a better position than other Dutch people, but simply to prevent Groningers from being in a worse position and that is still the case at the moment. The one about my motives. Then I come to the point of this evening: winning gas at Schiermonnikoog. Don't, for two reasons. First of all, I would like to draw attention to public support. The mining industry has lost its license to operate throughout its gas production. This has been significantly affected. Formal permits do nothing about that. There is no support for the people on Schiermonnikoog or elsewhere in the country. The second reason for not drilling there is that the energy mix will look completely different in the future. The cabinet is extremely ambitious and wants to reduce energy consumption from fossil sources enormously. We believe that the future energy mix should be anticipated, in which natural gas will have a much less prominent role. My plea is: set up a moratorium, not only for search permits, as stated in the government agreement, but also for mining permits. Don't take irreversible steps now. People say we're gonna need the gas for a long time. However, look at the coal power stations. Ten years ago, Minister Brinkhorst insisted on the construction of coal plants because they were needed for the energy mix, for security of supply. We're ten years away and they need to be shut down. The industry is holding hands to be compensated for the investments that have been made. We must avoid investing in gas extraction now which cannot be used later. Is the Minister prepared to go a step further than in the coalition agreement and to introduce a moratorium not only on search permits but also on mining permits? If that happens, does this apply not only to natural gas but also to shale gas? I await the Minister's reply and will, if necessary, table motions together with a number of colleagues in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u67	Mr Moorlag, congratulations on your maiden speech, a beautifully passionate and personal story. After Mrs Van Eijs's speech, I shall suspend my congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u69	I call Mrs Van Eijs of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u70	Mr. Chairman. The sustainable energy transition is crucial for achieving our climate ambitions. D66 therefore wants to move from fossil to green and clean as soon as possible. We want to stimulate the production of dynamic energy, reduce gas extraction as quickly as possible and remove all houses from the gas. However, the reality is that many of our households still depend on gas. As long as we cannot supply all households with energy in a sustainable way, we will need gas. Safe gas extraction is at the heart of this. At the same time, we want to reduce the extraction of gas from Groningen and not be dependent on dirty Russian gas. The gas find we are talking about today is not under the mainland of Groningen, but under the North Sea, about 20 kilometres north of Schiermonnikoog. This gas find may be an alternative to Groningen or Russian gas, but D66 also has no doubt about the importance of the Wadden Sea and the protection of biodiversity in the North Sea. That is why I have a few questions for the Minister. Hansa's gas find was still a test drill. What is the Minister's estimate that Hansa's request for extraction will be approved? Building on this: the amended Mining Act states that environmental permits can only be granted if co-use of an existing platform is not possible, and the visual impairment is minimized. The association of the Wadden Islands also refers in its letter to the Chamber's motion, which states that when considering the Wadden region, the preservation of natural beauty and ecological quality should always be paramount. How does this relate to Hansa's possible request for gas extraction? Are there any possibilities in gas extraction to enforce the use of the existing drilling platform? The monitoring of the effects of gas extraction on Ameland is coming soon. Is the Minister prepared to take the results when Hansa applies for a mining licence in the North Sea? What is the connection with the level of extraction in Groningen, or the import of Russian gas? Does the Minister see in this bubble an opportunity to extract extra gas or to reduce gas extraction in Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u71	In a previous period D66 also fought fiercely against gas extraction near the Wadden. I would just like to recall a motion that is not so old, from June 2016, with the operative part "to be opposed to the intended trial drill at Schiermonnikoog for this reason'.Of course, it is another one "because it has not been made plausible that this fits within the new framework of environmental and nature protection'. Your party has always supported that other motion, which I mentioned earlier. Do you now think that gas extraction should be possible above the Wadden?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u72	The motion to which you refer, I believe, concerns the drilling that was planned five kilometres off the coast of Schiermonnikoog at the time. This is, of course, about a slightly different area. That means that, as far as we are concerned, this is not about the Wadden Sea, but about the North Sea. That means that we want to take a serious look at this option.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u73	Sure, but your party also supported the motion that said: calls on the government not to compensate for the reduced gas production from the Groningen field with higher production from small fields or to tap into new locations. You have spoken in the Chamber: we do not want to enter new locations. Now you'll keep that opportunity open. Are you making a turn?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u74	We believe that, precisely because of the situation in Groningen and also the import of Russian gas, we should take a serious look at this option. The operative part of the motion as it was, of course, was about to compensate. That is what I am asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u75	In my view, this is a huge turn, because in the motion I have just read, it was correct to say that, in the interest of the inhabitants of the province of Groningen, the scale of gas extraction should be reduced, and that the reduced gas extraction in Groningen should not lead to more extraction at other locations. So in the previous period you said: yes, gas extraction in Groningen down, but that should not be at the expense of other locations, so no new locations. Now you're actually saying the opposite: go to other locations and look for gas. Are you making a turn or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u76	What was in the motion, I think, was actually reducing gas extraction in Groningen at that time. That is also what is in the coalition agreement and what is being continued. That should not lead to compensation at that time. Now we say: if you have now found gas in the North Sea, you should see if you can win it, perhaps to further reduce the gas extraction in Groningen, so not the move that was made earlier, or perhaps to compensate less Russian gas. I ask the Minister how he sees that in relation to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u77	It seems like a logical thought. If you have a big problem in one place, in Groningen, you will see if you can get similar gas from somewhere else, so that the crane in Groningen can be closed further. But one of the big problems, I think, is that D66, I agree, is that the amount of gas coming from Groningen is so incredibly large, that I actually want to ask: for how many weeks or months does my colleague from D66 think that we do not need Groningen gas, if this gas find is completely removed from the ground and used? What kind of period are we thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u78	If I have seen it correctly in the documents, it is about just over a year, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether that is true, because it has also been mentioned earlier that this would be an over-optimistic estimate. I do not think that period is quite clear at the moment, because of course there has just been a trial drill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u79	The company itself that does the test drilling, says 6 billion cub. Our domestic use in the Netherlands is around 35 to 40 billion cubic metres. So it's a month and a half at most. Do you have to postpone an energy transition for a month and a half that comes anyway and invest in this and do this and chase all the people on the islands who don't want this against you? Or should you say that we really need to do much more to reduce the domestic use of the Groningen gas much faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u80	I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren when she says that we should also look at the question side. So to really drastically reducing the demand for gas. We'll take steps on that, too. 100 million is invested in the sustainability of housing. We are looking at how we can also reduce gas consumption for the private stock, because there is still a great deal of work to be done. The number of windmills will increase enormously, which hopefully will make us really make the energy transition. So I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that we should look very closely at that. This also means that a critical consideration must be given to the possibility of exploiting this gas field. As I will argue later, we have already asked for social costs to be taken into account. So for example, what happens when you win there and you can't place windmills. That's an effect you might have to consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u81	Thank you. Then I'll suspend for a few moments...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u82	I hadn't finished my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u83	Apologies! I had gotten into all the interruptions. Apologies. That's right. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u84	I've got 55 seconds left, so that's a little while longer. Let's see. D66 recognises that gas plays a role in the transition to renewable energy. We don't know exactly how much gas we're gonna need in that transition phase yet. The gas field in the North Sea may be a good reserve to keep up with, should the energy transition go less quickly than hoped. How does the Minister see this? The North Sea is also an economic area, where besides gas extraction other activities take place, such as fishing and the production of wind energy. Can the Minister explain in detail what gas extraction in this place would mean for these other activities? To what extent does the Minister understand whether the business case of Hansa for gas extraction in the North Sea also include social costs, such as the impact on other activities in the area? Finally. To what extent does the Minister see the possibility of using the possible future proceeds of this gas discovery for the transition to renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u85	Thank you. You have really come to the end of your speech, but Mr Wassenberg, who has a question, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u86	Mrs Van Eijs said that in the vision of D66 gas could be a transition fuel. But I had already mentioned in my speech that the United Nations explicitly warns against methane leakage, which is a major contributor to the greenhouse effect. I talked about the University of Manchester, which also said that we will not get there with gas, also because of the leaks. So gas seems to be part of the problem rather than part of the solution. Is D66 blind to all that kind of signals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u87	I think we are certainly not blind to the fact that gas will not ultimately be the solution. You indicated that leakages are very crucial in that. But, for example, the leakages caused by the need to import Russian gas, we also find a factor to weigh with. Moreover, 96% of the homes in this country simply depend on gas for heating. We can say "we should forget that for a while," but we are never going to reduce the need for gas so much that we can pretend to be able to run out of gas very quickly. You're asking if it's a transition fuel. That depends on how you define it. But I think it's naive to think that in the short term we could be completely without natural gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u88	Mrs. Van Eijs mentioned a transition fuel. There are indeed a lot of houses that are heated with gas. But what I'm saying is, gas is a fossil fuel that we need to get rid of as soon as possible. It cannot, of course, play a role in the transition to renewable energy. That end point, we all agree on that. We also agree that there is an undesirable situation now. But my question is: does D66 think it is a desired transition fuel for that period to that renewable energy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u89	You may define the appointment of a transition fuel. But I have indicated that while we are going to make that transition, we will not go from the huge amounts of gas Mrs Van Tongeren mentioned, for example, to zero. So in that transition gas will simply be used for heating homes, hospitals, nursing homes and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u90	I shall suspend the sitting for a few minutes to congratulate Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u91	I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u92	Mr President, thank you. First of all, of course, also from this place Mr Moorlag congratulated on his maiden speech. I think we both agree that Groningen deserves a place in his maiden speech, but that at the same time Groningen deserves an independent and bigger debate than today. I think we can easily agree on that. I would like to thank the various spokesmen for their input. Yes, as soon as the lists are final, I'd like to meet you. I understand from Mr Graus that the expectations are very high, because Limburg pie is expected. I don't know if that's a clean fuel, but I'll question the Advertising Code Commission on that. I think maybe we should start by asking why. This is, of course, a question which should not be dealt with on the basis of a find. We have the Mining Act as a framework. It's pretty fresh, too. That means we don't look here and there and in other places we do. Then it's amazing that the discussion about winning or not comes up when you find something, because you've decided to look for something and you find it, but then you're going to question it. But I do understand that, and I think it is a logical question, because there is, of course, just a government agreement that expresses very great sustainable ambitions. Then I think it makes sense to ask how these things go together. That was exactly the question Mrs Van Tongeren asked. I have also heard the question from Mrs Beckerman and Mrs Dik-Faber, and Mr Geurts has actually put it in one form or another. It's a logical question. I must say that part of the question is already answered by Mrs Van Eijs' introduction. I don't know if I can trump her anymore. Not that that's my purpose, but still. The climate targets are ambitious. They're on, period, ready. Some Members have noticed in this debate that they have heard some representatives of parties holding sustainable stories where they didn't hear them before, but that's how it is now. That's a deal, and that's what we're gonna do. I think that achieving climate goals itself is extremely liberal. So ferme steps, but the question of whether you win here isn't about sustainability. It's not a transition question, but the question is whether you import or not. Because we know that even if we were to deliver on our 55%, we would still need fossil fuels even after 2030, and our commitment is to go there with neighbouring countries. So the question is not whether we can become sustainable faster. The question is whether we want to win or import ourselves. If we decided now to stop winning and import more, we would influence supply, but not demand. The sustainability ambition is focused on demand and it is independent of this, as far as I am concerned. I believe that it was Mr Bosman who stressed that not only economic effects would occur if we imported, but that the footprint would actually increase. In other words, as far as I am concerned, climate targets are achieved by ensuring as many alternatives as possible in an efficient way, but not by importing more gas now. I don't think that's the method. We're gonna need that gas for a while. I would rather not, in Mrs Van Tongeren's words, put my hands into it once in a while, but we are also talking about a very high-quality feed stock. In this capacity too, we will need gas for some time to come and, as far as I am concerned, as a high-quality feed stock. Many in this Chamber will share that. That therefore means that this is not the time to say 'let's stop it'. A few spokesmen say that. Mr Moorlag used his maiden speech for it. Under the current laws and regulations, it is clear how things are going. There's no moratorium in that. A moratorium without changing the law is possible in some cases. It is always legally vulnerable, but it is typically something you do when other concrete legislation is already underway and when society has changed and acts accordingly. That is not the case in this case, because the Mining Act is just new. It just entered this calendar year. There is therefore no question of such a situation. That's right. We have a law for that, too. We don't just have the law to bind the government and force it to be careful. Symmetrically speaking, we also have the law to grant rights to third parties, if they meet certain conditions. That's how the law's been laid down here. We must act on this, not only if we are looking for gas, but also if we find it at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u93	I did not call for the cessation of extraction, but for a temporary moratorium to take stock and see how natural gas fits into our future energy mix. The Minister's reasoning is rather hermetic and says: we have the law and we have to apply it; if there are applications, we have to settle them according to the law. I remember that in the case of wind energy a pass was also made at some point in time. The Crisis and Recovery Act and the National Coordination Scheme were adopted. The Ministry was flooded with applications for wind farms. The previous minister was able to introduce a moratorium, which took at least two years until agreements were made with the province. I do not see why there should be no agreement with industry on a temporary moratorium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u94	If everyone in the world voluntarily decided to do so, it was also possible. I have said that it is also conceivable in special cases. I would add that, according to the lawyers in my department, this is certainly not such a special case. My real argument is not that it would not be legally possible but that I would like to. I support the policy we have. The Mining Act provides for all kinds of steps of care. There is every reason for this regulation to win this gas. By the way, it means that we, as a society, agree that we do not win other gas. We have now made agreements on the new land-based quests. We have also made very special agreements about the Wadden Sea. That's a really different area. We are talking about the North Sea. Society has differentiated and nuanced views on where and where not. In accordance with the democratically-decided procedures, this is a 'if'. If the conditions could be met, there might be a possibility of extraction here. But with Mrs Van Eijs I say: it is far from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u95	But isn't it also in the interest of industry itself that there is a good plan on which natural gas you still need, which natural gas you're going to win? These are often gas fields with a payback period of 10, 20, 30 years. Should you not prevent gas fields from being exploited and the gas being phased out so quickly at some point that we will get overcapacity and the miners with an outstretched hand and a call for compensation will report to you or to your successor, because we are dealing with gas fields that have only been partially used?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u96	Here I am in complete agreement with Mr Moorlag. That kind of risk must, of course, be eliminated. Then the discussion would start to look very similar to that on coal-fired power stations. There we have given permits for devices that we later no longer want. We really need to avoid that. I totally agree with him. This means that at least two things need to be seen in the discussion. The first is at what rate we can achieve the reduction of demand and the second is specifically about the small field policy. That needs to be tailored to the need that still exists. We have stated that the sustainable transition must take place. We are very ambitious in that. We all agree that there's no point in looking for something you don't need to win anymore. That must be avoided, but I would like to do so in a different way from a moratorium. It is clear that we are now in a situation where we should otherwise import the gas that could possibly be produced there. At the same time, I very much like Mr Moorlag's caution with regard to the future. We should then have that debate. Perhaps not on the basis of this case, but I would like to add an asterisk to Mr Moorlag's name: that is the debate we have to have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u97	Mrs. Beckerman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have an enlightening question. I heard Minister, I mean in a subtlety, say that you actually only do moratoria when society is already acting differently. I hope I understood him correctly there, because I think that is precisely the situation. Last week, the three northern provinces signed together with many civil society organisations, including the Groninger Bottom Movement and Let Friesland Niet Zakken, a manifesto in which they say: no new detection sites, no new gas extraction sites and a phasing-out plan. So do you actually have the social pressure you want to put in place a moratorium, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u99	These are situations in which new legislation is already underway and that sort of thing. Let us not fail this Parliament. In this sense, Mrs Beckerman makes up the service in the legislative sense. It is this parliament that determines what happens to the Mining Act. We don't do that by county. At first, we thought about that very carefully. That law has been strengthened and all kinds of other decisions have been taken on where and where. It's coming out that this could happen. That's not weird either, because this isn't about the Wadden Sea. This is the North Sea, 20 kilometers above Schiermonnikoog. That is supposed to be what we are asking questions about and I am going to be a place where we still feel socially that there can be drilled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u100	I'm getting a reaction about what's in the law and what's not in the law. But I would also like to hear a response to that broad social front, already consisting of the three northern provinces, which has spoken out against extraction. Can you respond to that? What is the value of that ruling of those provinces and are you willing to listen to them and to give them control over this gas extraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u101	We also have agreements with each other on how to do that. Anyone in the Netherlands, but certainly these parties, can give an opinion on draft decisions that are there and that need to be taken into account. How are we gonna do that? There is no application for a mining licence at all, there is no extraction plan yet and there is no decision yet. Then there can be no point of view. That's the whole stretch that's still coming. That could take a long time. I don't even see how long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u102	Mrs Van Tongeren also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u103	I can follow the Minister's reasoning. We had that big quake in 2012. That's when we realized we're gonna have to drain the gas from Groningen. Then you see where you can get it from elsewhere and meanwhile you have to bring domestic demand down. How much has domestic demand been reduced over the past five years by Cabinets in which the VVD has always been in?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u104	The winnings have gone down tremendously. I think we have to establish that the use has not gone down. This is now a priority; that is clear. By the way, we are mainly talking about the Groningen dossier. I think that's definitely too big to discuss here right now. Mr Moorlag does not dedicate his maiden speech to that for nothing. That is a problem that is a little bigger than what we are talking about here. However, the mission is clear: we need to phase out and we need to get rid of the gas. That's the only way forward in the Groningen file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u105	I fully agree with the Minister, and I have been in agreement with other ministers for five years. What pace does the Minister intend to take in this? Can he lift a tip from the veil? It could give a lot of peace in the northern provinces if they could think: well, okay, this is the last gas field, which we really need to pull in because we need it. It would give a great deal of peace if they could say: we now have the downward line in terms of domestic gas use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u106	Yeah, I think that's a reasonable request. There will certainly be a need for this in the north of the country. We both know that firsthand; let's say it safe and sound. That's what I'm developing busy scenarios for right now. Once there are, I'll come out with that. I'm guessing that should be in the first quarter. There's a lot of work going on here. I am in fact in complete agreement with Mrs van Tongeren on this point; there must be scenarios for this and that must be discussed. The target is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u107	This is a good commitment. We look forward to these scenarios for the phasing out of gas use in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u108	Yes. Then it is also obvious to us in this Chamber to ask what this means for safety. Questions have been raised by Mr Wassenberg, Mrs Beckerman and Mr Graus. Mr Graus has said it most clearly, I think. In his question he has actually incorporated the answer. He said: not everything is known yet and we must go with care. Of course, that's exactly what it is. We don't know yet, and there's a whole trajectory for that. Calculations are further carried out in the trajectory to assess the chances of tremors and their potential strength. That whole seismic risk analysis isn't over yet. So I can't say anything about that right now. It's clear that if you win gas, the rock layer can sound and therefore descend the soil. There are two things that need to be monitored. Over a year ago, I spent 5.5 hours of my life on the Wadden Sea. But this is really different. We are talking about the North Sea on the spot. I think it's 20 feet deep, or something like that. It's not the bottom descent on the ground that we need to worry about. At most you can ask the question if it is noticeable on Schiermonnikoog. The preliminary assessment of this is in no way a final assessment and the preliminary assessment of the experts is that it is highly unlikely that any tremor will be felt on Schiermonnikoog. But let's put it this way: that's an assessment. The analysis is still on the way. There's a procedure going through patiently. Then we'll see. This is, of course, something that needs to be taken into account. I also respond directly to Mr Wassenberg's question on the motion on the Schiermonnikoog Council. It states that every effort must be made to prevent test drilling and/or gas extraction on and around Schiermonnikoog. I don't know what "round" is. I wouldn't call 20 kilometers north of the island "round" anymore. I just wanted to say that this is not about a gas extraction on Schiermonnikoog or around Schiermonnikoog. The Council itself, of course, determines what is meant by a motion. But if I may sidestep a view: there is still a safe distance to this motion. Of course that is for everyone's own assessment, because that's how politics works in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u109	Mrs Dik-Faber has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u110	On the minister's previous point. He indicated, and I think that is also right, that it is formally not a Wadden region but a North Sea region. It is at a considerable distance from Schiermonnikoog and also quite deep. But he was also talking about bottom descent. It's a major gas field, if I can believe the messages. It's an extensive gas field. Can the Minister promise that the decline in soil will be taken very carefully and that we will not level it out if we take further steps in the further process? My concern is that used studies, models of the NAM, still a party that has experience in gas extraction, did not prove to be satisfactory in practice. The State surveillance of the Mines said this year that gas has actually been extracted for four years without these models of the NAM on soil decline being right. I do not want this to happen again in the future. I would very much like to prevent us from winning gas and that this has unforeseen negative effects on soil decline. The whole thing with the NAM 'I call it 'akkefietje', but it's more than that 'Just doesn't make me very comfortable. Apologies for the length of the interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u111	It is complicated for me to assess the accuracy of the models of the NAM from here on out. But let me make a different assessment of the question, because I think the certainty that Mrs Dik-Faber is looking for is to be given. Look, this isn't according to the Wadden Sea Protocol, it's about the North Sea, but it might not be the drilling site, although not yet drilled, but eventually part of the field would be below more vulnerable areas. This means that there are all kinds of things going on with regard to a possible vulnerable soil and animals of a special nature there. I've had a lot of explaining about it, but my animal memory isn't that good. But there's definitely something worth protecting. It is also likely that, for example, an EIA procedure will have to be carried out and that it will have to be looked at precisely. It is therefore likely that this procedure is not a minor one. It is precisely these things that need to be addressed in a possible licensing process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u112	This answer reassures me to a considerable extent. It's a major field. If a further step is taken in the process, I cannot rule out the possibility that there will be an impact on vulnerable areas. We don't know the impact. I am glad to hear that it will also be looked at very carefully in the follow-up steps. That didn't happen at the time at the NAM. That was a case that was still going on this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u113	Your point is clear and your concern has come across well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u114	I would like to make a brief comment on Mrs Dik-Faber's final conclusion, which concerns the word'major'. About how major the field really is, different stories do the rounds. For the time being, a five billion cube has been established. This is large for a small field, but it is still a very small field. Anyone can become king in his own kingdom, but this is a very small kingdom. It is not very large compared to other fields in the Netherlands and in the world. Nevertheless, I will stick to my comment on the EIA procedure. I have all kinds of questions I don't want to skip. I'll check my notes. For example, Mr Wassenberg has asked how methane leakage is going. Yeah, look at that. Well, a letter has been sent about that once and additional questions have been asked. These figures would show that methane emissions from the oil and gas industries in the Netherlands are relatively low. However, we are still working with the sector to see how these emissions can be further reduced. What are the main causes and how can you combat them? Here too, the sector has been asked to clarify again what methods are being used and whether this can be further improved. As soon as that's available, I actually wanted to send it to this room. I believe that this may not remove Mr Wassenberg's concerns, but at least I suggest that he gets the information he wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u115	I still have a supplementary question. For what I have understood is perhaps I am wrong, is that it was mainly estimated and calculated and less concretely measured. That's important if you really want to know. And I was referring to a German investigation. If you don't know it, I'd be happy to forward the link later, and if necessary you can reply in writing. But it was a German investigation, which also looked at abandoned, no longer used wells. There is still a lot of methane leaking out. The question is also whether this will be looked at. If necessary, I can send that link to that scientific article, because I can imagine that you do not have all of that ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u116	I have the scientific article, I say in the direction of Mr Van Wassenberg, certainly not ready. That's what you owe me. During the introductory interview it is probably also about other things than this scientific article. Let me just take it as Mr Wassenberg's wish list. The question of calculating versus measuring is included in the letter. I'll see if there's anything sensible to say about the abandoned fields. Shall we do it like this? If I can't get information on this, I'll tell you why I can't. No hide-and-seek stuff. Let's see. Then there is Mrs Van Eijs' question as to how far we are going to help the issue of Groningen. That was actually her question. This is, in a sense, low-caloric gas. Can that be used now? I thought that was a very logical question. I have to confess that at an early stage, when I heard of this, I made a very small air jump, but that air jump turned out to be very premature. The extraction possibilities are not clear at the moment. The entire route has yet to be completed. However, if there is any prospect of extraction, there is still a great deal of doubt as to whether this can be brought to the mainland via a low-caloric link or whether it still needs to be mixed with other forms of gas extraction in small fields. In short, I don't know about this yet. It seems very premature to me. I don't think I should look here first in the search for solutions for Groningen. Then we're playing tricks on each other, but I don't have to fool myself either. I've reversed my little air jump with retroactive force. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u117	Mrs. Van Tongeren has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u118	In politics it's often: you're early, you're early, you're early, oh, you're late. Gas extraction is often the same. Because the Minister says here, probably very sincerely: there is an NGT pipeline that comes to the Groningen Uithuizen, and it runs right past this concession. So the fact that that couldn't easily be brought ashore doesn't make sense. That pipeline is definitely there. If gas is extracted there, it can be fed. I hear the Minister making a preparatory move here that it does not solve the Groningen problem, but he cannot legally stop the permit. The gas pipe is there and there may be nothing in the Mining Act that will stop this extraction. Do I hear the Minister that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u119	Well, that's a very quick list of what I would have said. Let me put it this way: if I can still make my air jump come true, I am happy to do so. I am not having a pipeline discussion with Mrs Van Tongeren in this place. Let's put it this way: if this offers solace for Groningen, she will be the first to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u120	As we have already noted in an earlier inter-ruption debate, it does not, of course, offer any comfort to Groningen. It only offers six to eight weeks of solace for Groningen. The Minister's first commitment to come up with another scenario...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u121	Maybe three months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u122	Okay, about three months. But then the whole gas transition, these 8 million houses that need to get off the gas, happens three months later. As a minister, I wouldn't make too many jubilee jumps for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u123	No, let's not call it a solution to the transition, because it is in no way. As far as I am concerned, these dossiers need to be looked at in a completely separate way. I have already indicated this at the beginning of this debate. The ambition is unabated and stands upright. I have the necessary headaches about that, but I do have constructive headaches. Do I do justice to everyone? No, not by a long shot. Mr Wassenberg almost asked me a philosophical question. At least, among technicians it's called a philosophical question. Is gas clean? I think he also knows that there is no answer to that question. When we were all sitting on the coal stove, we thought it was a great clean fuel. It has had a phenomenal impact on the health and appearance of our inner cities. But we're a step further. There's something going on that has nothing to do with dirt or anything. We all exhale CO. There's nothing nasty about that, but it does have climate effects. That's where we're at now. We have decided to follow a very ambitious path down. I think we really agree on that level. And if you call it a transition... It is not a transition of choice, but out of necessity. A transition means that you cannot switch to a new system from one day to the next. In that sense it is, but if it didn't have to be, we probably would have agreed on it soon. I have literally noted the following question from Mr Wassenberg: how much of the mainland does not have a licence? I may have taken too short a note of that question. I would ask him to explain clearly what he wants to know in the second period. Then I'll see what I can do about it. Mrs Beckerman asked what authority is in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u124	Before you proceed, Mr Wassenberg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u125	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I rerouted Mrs Van Tongeren's question. Mrs Van Tongeren will probably be able to explain that question well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u126	Look at me. I'm being sent from the locker to the wall.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u127	And there's Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u128	Here comes the enlightenment. It would be very nice for the entire Chamber to get a ticket from the Netherlands, so that we can see in which areas there is currently no old, dormant, current or active concession under the Mining Act. My estimate is that there are actually no gas areas where it is not. I very much hope that the Minister can prove that I am not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u129	Well, I think this has some consequences for applicants, but I'm giving her this card. Perhaps with a small oral explanation on the impact of these sentences in the coalition agreement. That is what she really wants to know. That card might be the instrument. I would just like to answer her question. I need to see what's left of me. What control... if you take all your notes with wraps, you'll have to look for your own stuff. I work with a lot of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u130	The term "weaponies."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u131	I use whole blocks of them. As I say to Mrs Beckerman, this is not about the type of control that exists in the municipality itself. This is not a location in a municipality or in a province. It's at sea. We're going a mile off the coast but no further. So the influence here is that views can be given. These can also be given by me and Mrs Beckerman as non-residents, but this is the way here because this is a different location than that of a municipality or a province. That's how the Mining Act regulates this. Mrs. Dik-Faber is still asking if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u132	Before you continue, Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u133	I happen to have Article 16 of the Mining Act with me and it says: 'Deputy States of a province covered by the application for authorisation'. It doesn't say that it must necessarily fall within the province boundaries. So you can construct that it is possible, because it causes turmoil in the province and in the Wadden Islands and because it relates to that population. Article 2 says that Deputy States will then ask B and W and the water boards that are relevant for that. So I think you can do just fine there and we can also ask the Supreme Court if that is necessary to give a somewhat broader interpretation than strictly just that it has to be within the provincial boundaries. 'Cause that's not what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u134	I am convinced that this is not how the legislator intended it. I will go through the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u135	This is an amendment tabled by Mr Vos and myself. So we are co-legislator there, and I remember very well how I meant that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u136	I'll look into the legal history, but I'll keep it at my reading until then, if I may be so honest. But the promise that I will look into it, I have made. Mrs Dik asks what protection there is specifically at the Wadden Sea. But she says very sensible things about it herself, so I don't quite see the point of the question. In my opinion, she explained in her speech at a later stage that this is not about the Wadden Sea, which is a different regime. So I think she might have meant this more rhetorically. She also asked if we would monitor the soil here. No, all this is taken into account in advance in the authorisation. But when it comes to the North Sea strictly, there is no monitoring. Did I understand correctly to Mr Geurts that he asked which natural values are at stake? Was that his question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u137	The Minister has noted that correctly. "Could be," I said literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u138	It is about all kinds of things, such as protected bird species, mammals such as porpoises and seals, in the Dutch Natura 2000 areas it is about the Wadden Sea, but also the North Sea coastal zone, Schiermonnikoog. So it's both the flora and the underwater fauna. It depends on where you are. This will be less lively in the North Sea than in the Natura 2000 areas. Mr Geurts was able to read how the mining works fit in in the Mining Act, which lays down how we should deal with this carefully and how we should deal with it. This means that, if there is a sensitive area, we have to meet significantly more safeguards and that sometimes it is not at all a question. Mrs Van Eijs asked the possibility that the extraction would be approved. I have no idea. It is not often that there is a refusal, but it seems to happen sometimes. But we have a Mining Act that hasn't been around that long, and it might create another situation. We can't say anything about this particular location. So I wouldn't venture to take an estimate. Mrs Van Eijs has asked me if I see this as a transition fuel. Well, that actually applies to the philosophical remark I made towards Mr Wassenberg. I thought I was through this first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u139	Mrs Van Tongeren has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u140	I took the report from the Security Research Council. It gives rather firm advice to the government. The government has promised that it will take those opinions. One of the things the Security Research Council notes is that there is growing distrust between the population in the North and the governments. The governments are accused of adopting a rather technocratic attitude and of interpreting laws technocratically. The advice is to communicate generously with the population and to involve them in decisions. If Schiermonnikoog is based on the principle that it is not within a province and that the province, the municipalities and the water authorities should not be allowed to advise, then I think this is such a technocratic interpretation. But the intention of the opinion of the Research Council on Security is to involve the public properly and to listen to its advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u141	If I may say so, I think that these opinions mainly concerned Groningen, where there is a completely different situation. I really wouldn't compare a North Sea find 20 kilometres north of Schiermonnikoog with the Groningen situation. The Groningen situation deserves the utmost attention and priority. There's nothing to cheer up about. There is great concern about that, but that is quite different from what we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u142	Mr Wiebes indicated that he had already passed through his questions, but I think I still had a whole zipper. I'll limit myself because it's late. The biggest question that is still open to us is: what about other activities in the area and to what extent are social costs such as those for those activities that cannot continue included in the considerations, including Hansa herself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u143	That's a very good question. I don't know the answer to that. Could I come back to that in the second term, Mr President? Then I will give Mrs Van Eijs the answer. If it doesn't work even then, I'm stuck with a note. I think it's a good question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u144	That's right. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u145	I had another interruption and an open question. My interruption referred to your remark that there is a very different situation in Groningen. The situation in Groningen is one of which, I think, we have to learn the hard way. We must learn from it in a hard way what gas extraction can actually mean for communities and that people are especially disappointed in the government because they have lost control and control. They don't feel like they're about their own future. The sword of Damocles from that gas extraction is now hanging over new communities. Do you recognize this? Do you also see that the communities on Schiermonnikoog are actually in a sense of unrest? They want control and they want control over the future. So yes, it's a different situation, and yes, it's another area, but shouldn't we learn from Groningen that residents should have control over their environment, as the OVV asks? Do you agree with me? May I come back to my outstanding question? I had asked about the role of EBN. Energy management The Netherlands is 100% state-owned. Do you not think it is something from the past that we are looking for new gas with public money, with a state-owned company, and you also acknowledge that we need to get rid of that gas? Do you foresee a new role for EBN?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u146	We've just arranged for control by law. I didn't vote for that. This Chamber has voted in favour of it. It regulates control. Groningen really is a different situation. Things went wrong there. We all have to admit, Mrs van Tongeren, that she spoke many years ago about the desirability of reducing gas consumption. We're in the situation we're in right now. But I really don't think it's fair to Groningers to compare that with a find in the North Sea. It is all to be seen, because we all have to go through the procedures. Maybe it never will; I can't predict that. But when it comes to bottom slopes, it's about the seabed. The sea is 20 meters deep there. For the moment there is no reason to believe that there would be something to feel or to notice on Schiermonnikoog. Those are the facts, but we have procedures to map them gradually and to judge them. We shouldn't compare that to the Groningen file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u147	Mrs Beckerman, before you briefly do the second part of your interruption, I would like to point out that the interruptions are quite long and extensive. In view of the time, too, I would ask you to put it a little shorter and more concisely, otherwise it will take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u148	Mrs Beckerman still owes me an answer, Mr President. She asked another question about EBN. That depends on what I said at first. You don't go off the gas by not winning anymore, because that means you're going to import the same amount of extra. Getting off the gas is done by finding cost-effective ways to provide you with energy in a different way. This is about a huge transition and a phenomenal job, but has nothing to do with this particular field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u149	Very briefly. The Minister always points to the Mining Act and says what it says, but I ask him what he thinks. You and I can both change that law. If you think that residents should actually have control and control over their future, we can change that law. What do you think? Do you think that the law is sufficient or do you agree with the OVV, which says that it is important to tackle it because it is so important for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u150	I think the new Mining Act is very careful. There are additional safeguards built in. I think it is important to include not only subjective reality, but also objective reality. That's what these procedures are for. Again, for the time being, this is not about something that will threaten a community. The question is whether it can be seen from the beach at all. That's what we're talking about. Again, we are going through the evaluation step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u151	I have another clarifying question. It has been included in the coalition agreement that there will be no new permits for the search. I mentioned shale gas on the side. Does this mean that shale gas is passé in the Netherlands and that there are no permits for it? There are no search permits for them yet. Is there not a process of extraction of shale gas?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u152	There is a moratorium on this until 2023. This means that no more search permits are granted, not even during this cabinet period. No non-commercial scientific test drilling shall be carried out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u153	Did this bring you to the end of your first-term contribution? It appears to me that this is the case. That's good. I suggest that we proceed immediately with the second term of office. I call Mrs Van Tongeren. Speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u154	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the intention of Article 16 of the Mining Act is that there is a right of advice relevant to the population;]] [[Whereas the surrounding provinces and municipalities have opposed possible gas extraction over Schiermonnikoog;]] [[calls on the Government to give serious consideration to these opinions and to communicate them in a transparent manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Wassenberg, Beckerman, Moorlag and Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-390]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u155	The Court, after hearing the debate, asks the Government to submit an opinion on how Article 16 of the Mining Act should be applied to territorial waters and the economic zone to the relevant section of the Supreme Court. I'm writing this motion now on as we speak. My final motion is: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the exploitation of new natural gas fields does not contribute to the objective of the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Whereas local authorities have expressed opposition to gas extraction over Schiermonnikoog;]] [[Whereas it threatens the local environment, tranquility and landscape;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a moratorium on new gas extraction permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Tongeren, Wassenberg, Beckerman and Moorlag.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-391]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u156	I want to read the motion again with love and pleasure, but I tried to stay within the time available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u157	Then I'll give you a little more time, because there was plenty of English too, so I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u158	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to give an opinion on how Article 16 of the Mining Act should be applied to territorial waters of the Netherlands and our economic zone, for example by seeking advice from the Supreme Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-392]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u159	Thank you very much for your coulance, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u160	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have three motions, and I will try to declamate them quickly but intelligibly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is committed to a transition to renewable energy;]] [[noting that the coalition agreement decided not to grant land-based gas detection permits;]] [[Whereas natural gas extracted from the sea is as polluting as gas extracted on land;]] [[calls on the Government not to issue new marine gas exploration and extraction permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is committed to a transition to renewable energy;]] [[noting that natural gas is a polluting fossil fuel, with combustion leading to CO emissions;]] [[noting that methane, the main component of natural gas, is a very powerful greenhouse gas, many times more powerful than CO;]] [[points out that natural gas cannot be referred to as transition fuel in the pathway to renewable energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Beckerman and Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-393]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-394]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u162	My third motion is very brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that when natural gas is extracted on land and at sea, the powerful greenhouse gas methane always leaks out and enters the atmosphere;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan to counter these gas leakages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag and Mr Graus.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-395]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u163	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government invests in the search for and extraction of gas fields through the state-owned Energy Management Netherlands (EBN);]] [[considers that this is contrary to public policy to reduce gas extraction;]] [[calls on the Government to come up with a vision for the future of EBN in which the phasing-out of gas extraction is the starting point,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the transition to renewable energy needs to be fully exploited;]] [[considers that gas extraction should become a fossil record as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to commission an independent investigation into a phasing-out plan for Dutch gas extraction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Tongeren, Mr Moorlag and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-396]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Beckerman, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Tongeren and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33529-397]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u164	Just a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u165	Then I'll suspend for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u166	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u167	Mr. Chairman. The first motion, the motion in part No. 390, is by Mrs Van Tongeren and is immediately a puzzle for me, because her request is to give serious consideration to opinions when deciding on the authorisation. That fits a government; that is, of course, typical of what you have to say yes to. It is true that the suggestion about this is not correct, because in any case the Mining Act does not include in this case that Deputy States have advisory rights on this matter. For this reason, in order not to raise false expectations and not to abuse the history of law, I must advise against the motion, but I would like to say that we will take the views on the ground and the view seriously. But I must discourage the motion itself, for reasons of the text as a whole. On the second motion, the motion in part No. 391, I have just spoken in detail in the debate. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The third motion, the motion in part No. 392, it's about Article 16. I've just agreed to study the legal history. I would advise against the motion before us, but I will return to Article 16. Then the motion to part No. 393...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u168	Before proceeding on this motion, Mrs Van Tongeren had another question about the motion in part No. 392.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u169	In the latter case, I do not understand the Minister's reasoning. He also says that we should not only deal with it technocratically; we should also listen to the people and perhaps even show some empathy towards Groningen. This is just to ask what's going on with the history of law. That amendment on which this is based, which at least allows the local population to give an opinion that cannot be thrown off the table, is based on that amendment of mine and Fox and Article 16. I don't think we're any wechurists here. Then I'd like to put it to you somewhere. That will have to be with the Council of State instead of the Supreme Court. Then the Minister also says he doesn't need that advice either. I don't understand. I expected the Minister to say with me: will we then ask people who can study legal history properly...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u170	Your interruption is really very long and your point is clear, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u171	It is clear that this needs to be clarified, because that clarity is not there at the moment. Mrs Van Tongeren has an idea about this and I suspect something else. So we should also bring in specialists, but that does not have to be, as far as I am concerned, a High College of State or a large institute. I will try to make a transparent assessment of this with the legislators and specialists in the department and I will present it to Mrs Van Tongeren. I think we can manage with that, and I suspect that the Council of State might also give this advice; to look for it first in its own circle. It is clear that I will not judge that on my own. I don't think Mrs Van Tongeren is going to do that either. But she's gonna hear from me. About the Wassenberg motion c.s. in piece No. 393 we have also spoken, as a result of various speakers. I have to discourage this motion. The Wassenberg/Beckerman motion in part No. 394 is actually something I do not want to pronounce on at all. This is something I would almost say: freedom of expression or human rights. I understand that Mr Wassenberg does not think it is a transition fuel. I just explained why I have to look at it that way. But I really want to abstain, but since that is not possible, I must be discouraged. I think we could have an interesting discussion about this under a cup of coffee. The Wassenberg c.s. motion in piece No. 395 calls on the government to draw up a plan to counter gas leakages. That really transcends the powers of the government. The operator is, of course, responsible for this. SodM will see to that. But a plan to prevent leakages is quite unfeasible and I have to dissuade it for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u172	This motion was at first longer and was also about measuring instead of calculating. I've already removed it, because there was a promise from the Minister. Thank you for that. I would like to hold this motion until there is more information about these gas leaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u173	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (33529, 29684), No. 395). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u174	Then we have that letter and then we have a fruitful conversation about it. Then I would first like to comment on motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 397 and then beware of the one with piece No. 396. The motion in part No. 397 asks the government to commission an independent investigation into a phasing-out plan for Dutch gas extraction. It looks like something I've promised and I want to repeat. There will be phasing-out scenarios for gas demand. That's what I promised. Exactly as it says here, I must discourage it, but with a positive undertones, in the sense that it resembles each other. I see Mrs Van Tongeren nodding yes, but it is now about the nodding of Mrs Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u175	Yeah, I'll nod too. Can we get out if we change it to: "Is the government requesting a phasing-out plan for Dutch gas extraction"? We want to look not only at the scenarios to use less gas, but also at what is needed and in what form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u176	What is still needed is, of course, evidence of this, but it is a question of scenarios for demand. I do not think that the government should immediately go to the externals but that the government should first try to do its own investigations. Should the motion change, I have to see it first, because in the end it listens closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u177	I think Mrs Beckerman has indicated that she is going to amend the motion, but as it stands, it is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u178	As it now stands, it's being dissuaded, but we're giving Mrs. Beckerman a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u179	And what is your verdict on the motion in part No. 396?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u180	That is indeed the next motion. In order to get started immediately with EBN, which is a specific organisation, I have to advise against it, regardless of the exact wording. I am waiting for the outcome of Mrs Beckerman's other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u181	Let me get this straight: the motion in part No. 396 gets the judgment dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u182	The motion in part No. 396 I advise against and on the motion in part No. 397 further information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u183	Mrs Beckerman, you can have the motion in part No. 397 change at another time and then the motion now simply gets judgment "dissuade" and then it is re-assessed. I think that's best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u184	Let's do it this way, but then we'll name Mrs. Beckerman's right back here. Anyway, I don't think you need me for that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u185	The right of return has been appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u186	I still have a debt to settle with Mrs Van Eijs, and that concerns the issue of social costs and benefits, which also relates to other activities such as windmills. The Mining Act does take into account minerals or natural resources among themselves. Other activities, such as windmills, are not included, but the production of gas that might be involved has only a very limited amount of space and does not interfere with wind at sea. There are examples off the Dutch coast. We have, of course, gained experience with tenders, which show that these functions are easily combinable. So this won't be an obstacle to the placement of wind at sea. Mr President, then I am through the motions and the final questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u187	Thank you very much. That concludes this debate. Thank you for coming to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-20.u188	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
