ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this cabinet, in 2012, the government raised over 150 million extra to introduce additional controls on taxpayers. This involved extra money for the FIOD for checks on private individuals, but also on VAT for large and small businesses. The government did so because the Chamber had asked her six months before, by means of a motion from the undersigned, to come forward with proposals to raise a plurality of lost taxes with a little bit of extra intensification and supervision. We have asked several times in the Chamber for that piece and those measures. We asked what the business case looked like, how that money would be spent and where the recovery didn't go well. What surprises us: we never got those pieces. But this week there was a WOB request from Trouw and the FD. That WOB request suddenly contained the whole business case, pieces we've been wanting for a long time. Why didn't we get it? And how does this relate to our right to information? 'Cause there's some pretty interesting stuff here. It says, for example, that of the 10 million tax returns, almost 9 million are quite correct. 90% of the Dutch fill out their tax returns. With 600,000 people, there's a hard indication that it's all wrong. And what's in the pieces? So we're checking 600,000 people? No, we're only checking 150,000. The other 450,000 just get the hit on the bus based on what they themselves gave up, which the Tax Administration itself knows is wrong. How unfair can you be to 9 million honest taxpayers? If I had more time, I would also say that the documents say that transfer pricing is only calculated ten times a year. Every time that happens, companies have to pay more than a million back. A few extra checks would be very helpful. Why didn't that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. There was therefore a good reason to invest extra in supervision and recovery in line with the Court's call. That's what happened. The amount mentioned by Mr Omtzigt, I think it was 168 million, to be more precise, has been added annually to the budget with the aim of raising more money. This project has also been vetted by the General Court of Auditors. He published this report in 2016. As a result, the Court has been reported to the Court at various times. When the ARK report was sent, we communicated about it. It was also on the agenda of a general consultation in 2016. Then we debated this case again. I paid attention to this during the half-year report on the Investment Agenda in October 2016. It was in the annual report. This case has been dealt with in ZEMBLA. This case showed that the capacity was ultimately used differently from that used in the original plan. That is also reported to the Chamber. But the ARK was mainly critical of the measurement method. We're sharpening it now to see what it's getting. This is particularly important for the Investment Agenda. This was the first business case of the Tax Administration; the Investment Agenda was in fact the second business case. We also need this better measurement method. So I try to do everything I can to ensure that not only the commitment, but also the results are made known to the Chamber, so that these business cases are verifiable and we can learn from them over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u3	My first question was, why didn't we get the business case? Since we didn't get the business case, we couldn't check what the Secretary of State did at all. The General Court also wrote: "The House of Representatives has been informed from the outset only in general terms." In other words, we didn't get the underlying numbers. Why does the first journalist who asks for it get such a piece in three weeks, when we've been waiting for it for years? Worse still: in 2014 I literally asked for these documents in Parliamentary questions. That's when they were secret. Why were they secret then, and are they wobble now? That doesn't make any sense. A second point, which I do not get an answer to, is the following. Now we're getting it more precise. In my speech, there were precise numbers. You're a little used to me, too. In that I said exactly that of those 600,000 hard indications only 150,000 receive a letter from the Tax Administration stating that it is incorrect. 450,000 people who we're almost certain are cheating, won't even get a check. That has not been in any of those documents, whereas that is exactly the information we asked for. I'd like to get an answer to those two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u4	The information referred to by Mr Omtzigt is probably from one of the ADR reports in which the business case was discussed and reviewed. I agree with an important part of Mr Omtzigt's speech. We have also decided to send such ADR reports to the Chamber from now on. We have agreed to send all ADR reports from July 2016. Some of them have already been sent. Since then, the process has been lifted, because it takes a lot to get something out eventually, even though you know that no persons are being damaged. Soon another tranche of ADR reports will be presented. These ADR reports will now be made public automatically and actively on the site within six weeks, so that everyone can become aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u5	What is your answer to the second question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u6	The second question is about all numbers. Those numbers are from the business case. I don't know the business case by heart. The business case changed after that, too. I think we are in agreement that the Tax Office has set up the entire Investment Agenda to ensure that compliance is as well as possible. Other actions are needed for each group. That's gonna bring in all kinds of different business cases. We find a whole programme of such business cases in the Investment Agenda, which is currently being reviewed. So I fully share the desire to ensure that we simply get our money in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u7	I'm still not getting an answer to the question. Why didn't the Chamber get the play? That's a simple question. What do you mean, you keep this kind of information a secret from the Chamber? Three quarters of the people whose mistakes are detected are not controlled. What do you think of that? You send it, but the Chamber does not even receive an cc't with the text: I will make it public anyway. I'm gonna get to the big question. 150 million has been spent on this and 1.1 billion has been spent on the Investment Agenda. Two weeks ago, this Secretary of State had to admit to the Chamber that he didn't know where it was spent. He had no idea. It wasn't from the Spring Note or the annual accounts either. Can we get an overview of what that money was spent on for the last week before the recess, within one and a half weeks, with an update on this point and on the 1.1 billion? There have been times when smaller things have been asked Chamber questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u8	It is not at all unclear what the money from the Investment Agenda has been spent on. I did not say in the Chamber that this is not clear to us. I said that the budget is very difficult to read on this point. Mr Omtzigt has also contributed to making me realize this, because he once concluded that there was an overrun of 1 billion, while at that time there were no exceedances at all. So that budget is simply not clear and that is because three different posts are being tapped out. I have promised to explain better how this budget works, so that it can be traced and so that we do not get reports every time of exceedances that worry the Dutch, while those exceedances are not there at all. Mr Omtzigt now asks a further question and says: give me a detailed overview of what the funds of the Investment Agenda have been spent on so far. I'm fine with that. I'll add that summary to that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u9	For a Member of Parliament, it is very strange to read something in the newspaper that you have asked for several times. And we have done this as a whole as a whole in recent years: how much do we have to invest in the Tax Administration to make sure that there is better control and thus it becomes fairer? Now it's back in the paper and the Chamber didn't get it. How does the Secretary of State look at that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u10	Well, Mr President, on that basis, the Minister of Finance and I have just said that ADR reports, which contain this kind of information, will now be made public one-on-one. Active disclosure. There wasn't one before. ADR reports were intended to enable an internal purpose, namely management and, if necessary, in serious cases, also the administrator to adjust. Those reports will all be sent to the Chamber from now on. This kind of information will be known to the Chamber from now on. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mrs. Leijten, I see you at the interrupting microphone, but you've been on behalf of the SP twice. We have agreed that two additional questions can be asked, and that is true for everyone. You're missing an answer? I'm looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u12	The answer is that this Secretary of State is also convinced that this kind of publicity should be sought. That is why we decided last year to actively publish ADR reports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u13	Apart from disclosure and how and when, the first business case showed that there was a major lack of control. The question is whether the Investment Agenda will fix that. In the consultation two weeks ago, we asked the Secretary of State to announce an intensification of control, not so much of supervision. I still think that's a weird term. After all, we are talking about ordinary book checks. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Subsequently, he stated, and that might help, that we will soon be making a work visit to the Tax Administration to see what is actually happening there in terms of supervision and whether that is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u14	I had already promised two things in the context of this in itself useful question that I am now getting. The first is that we have recalibrated this type of project. I am going to report to the Chamber what I think the Investment Agenda will deliver in the coming period and what investment is needed for this. That recalibrate is running and will be ready soon. The second is that I want to make an enforcement letter, in which I give clearer political accountability and clearer insight to the Court of Justice into the choices made by the Tax Administration in enforcement, i.e. the distribution between segments but also the approach. I'll do that as far as it's natural, because if we tell everyone everything, we'll find no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-4.u15	Mr Van Rooijen, I also see you standing at the interrupting microphone, but it also applies to you. 50PLUS has been twice. That's it.
