ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome the Minister of Finance and give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Whether you like it or not, most people think when they hear the word "accountants" from scandals, scandals where accountants played a role or where they failed. From care establishments to cattle slaughter. Also think of the purchase of Management Company the Optional, real estate, bribery even and checking the true picture of the financial statements and the items included therein. In each of these situations, the audit auditors' signature proved to be worthless or played a bad role in advice and appreciation. This year Deloitte and KPMG settled for millions with their prosecutors. KPMG did so after fraud had been committed with the construction of its own headquarters. Last autumn we were shocked by the so-called "Porsche director" of a healthcare institution. With the help of the accountant went bountiful money on luxury holidays and expensive cars instead of the care that is so badly needed. We will meet KPMG again in 2015. This time as an external accountant of a glorious collapsed service provider: Imtech. The falsely approved annual accounts resulted in a fine of more than a million. That is, by the way, a slap in the face for this organisation. In 2013, 7 million of them were fitted with justice due to fraud and the cover-up of Ballast Nedam's bribes around 2001 and 2002. In 2012 housing corporation Vestia and educational moloch Amarantis were not busy with their public task but making hard money at the expense of the public cause. When the music stopped, auditors of Deloitte, PwC and KPMG were co-responsible for the smoke-up of 3,000 jobs and the implementation of a billion-euro rescue plan. I can go on for a while. In 2010, Weyl's cattle abattoir went bankrupt due to accounting fraud. Over 900 employees lose their jobs. With suppliers, there are 150 million in unpaid bills. I'll mention another one. In 2007, transport company Rynart went bankrupt due to a paper sales increase of nearly 64 million, approved by accountant Ernst & Young, which is now called EY. Or what about the double role of the person who played for accountant in the valuation of Management Company the Optional? On the one hand, he knew the company well as an auditor and underappreciated it. On the other hand, he advised the buyer, who could buy the crematorium company for a shot. I can go on forever, but I won't. These are scandals with a lot of media attention. The image that emerges from it is not tender. It's also not nice that there's so many times the D.A.'s office gets fit when things go wrong. If fines are imposed by the Financial Markets Authority, they can actually be paid laughably. The Auditor's Supervision Act is a bit like the "law total failure." Since the introduction of supervision, criticism of the sector has only increased, including by regulators and by themselves. In 2010, the Authority for Financial Markets found that a fundamental change in behaviour in the sector is needed to improve the quality of controls. In the case of samples in files, it was found that the reporting of auditors was inadequate. In 2012, politics intervened with the Act on the Auditor's Occupation. This made a new attempt to help the desired change of behaviour in the sector with regulation, i.e. laws. The law stipulates that on paper there must be a separation between the control and advisory functions and that there is office rotation, so that you do not check someone's books for more than eight years. Some things were also improved within the Financial Markets Authority. The fact that the sector was not really serious was demonstrated by the massive abuse of a transitional regime introduced to separate control and advisory services. That's a sign. I learned one thing after six months as a spokesman for finance: that we, the Chamber, the Government, the legislator, are trying to close gaps in order to prevent bad floods from the financial sector that are damaging our society. But where we all want to keep dry feet and are therefore busy closing those holes, I have also learned that the financial world and also the accountants are constantly looking for those holes in the legislation that will put us back under water. Today we are discussing a law to improve audit. An annual accounts will now be drawn up by a management board with its internal auditor. Those accounts shall be audited by the external auditor. The external auditor is audited by an independent internal body, a supervisory board of its own. It's controlled by a supervisor. When you hear this list like this, it is becoming a bit of a grotesque mill of the inspector's control. The question is whether this is also the solution to what we have actually seen in recent years. Or can we wait again for new scandals because there is another weakest link in this chain? Like bankers, accountants have a professional oath these days. I quote the Minister, who said something at a meeting last year when the oath was taken. "The accountant must reinvent himself and the client must also get used to that role. Accountants must put the public interest first. They hold an important position of trust in society. Culture change cannot only be enforced through legislation, but must mainly come from the sector and accountants themselves." I ask the Minister whether he thinks that the desired change in behaviour and culture has now been achieved. It was then Minister of Finance Gerrit Zalm in the examination of the Supervisory Auditor Organisations Act, who discussed in detail in the First Chamber the perverse incentives that exist and the existence of an unhealthy oligopoly in the auditing world. Those are fundamental problems, which make it work in the bookkeeping world as it works. This law doesn't do anything about that. Philosophers try to think about what the depth of human motivation is. They have reflections to understand them. But there's one thing they agree on. The old wisdom is that it's a human behavior that you don't bite the hand that feeds you. This is, of course, one of the key problems we face: the financial incentives that exist, the loyalty to the client and, at the same time, the critical approach to the client. The proposed measures in this bill focus mainly on the personal integrity of the accountant, while the major looming error in the control system, especially the odd position of the client and the payer, is not actually discussed. These fundamental questions we continue to extend in front of us. I really don't believe the accountant doesn't want to do his job properly. I don't believe that. He does his job well and wants to honor his profession, but because it works as it works there are big pitfalls. We're not talking about that enough. The accountant carries out a social task. He supervises the truthful picture of an annual accounts. He thus has a social interest, as the Minister said when he was with the auditors. But it does rub when you have to approach your client as critically as you are paid by it; I have already said it. It is most helpful in the control of housing corporations, health institutions, municipalities and other organisations paid by tax or contribution money. That is where the social interest should be at the top and not the contractual interest. As far as I am concerned, we are going to think about reducing financial incentives, especially in the public domain. We are now pretending that if you do a good report, have finished well all kinds of check-ups, have properly checked the auditor's inspector and so on, it will be okay. However, it is precisely the question of why, in this case, public money should be controlled by an expensive outside auditor. Can't the money spent on it be used in a different way? Isn't there another way we can arrange for those proud accountants not to sit on the bacon like a cat and have an interest in that contract? The establishment of control of the correct use of money is, of course, necessary, as well as public control of public money. But it is not the buying-in of expensive auditors, but the setting up of good supervisory bodies and local audit offices that could do this work. The Minister of Finance considers it undesirable to switch to another earning model, and I have put that forward in the written preparation of this bill, because it would take time and energy. But when I look at the introduction and the discussion about the Auditor Organisations Act and where we are now, eleven years later, it has resulted in a lot of time, a lot of consultation, reports, good intentions and 53 measures from the sector itself. It was all difficult to implement and there should not be too many rules. I wonder when the border has been reached. When are you gonna have to do it? Can the Minister go into that sometime? When should the moral change be made or will we continue to extend this issue for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. There must be confidence in the accountant and the auditor's statement, including from investors, but also from, for example, taxpayers in municipalities. Trust in the market and also in the government is in the interest of the economy. The trust of the accountants is under pressure after several scandals. The VVD believes it is important that confidence in the accountant should be restored. Therefore, the VVD also supports the measures in the present law. Several legal measures have already been taken in recent years to ensure better quality and greater independence, such as mandatory office rotation and separation of control and advice. The package also includes, at the request of the VVD, an extension of the limitation period for disciplinary proceedings and an arrangement that only the supervisory board and shareholders can appoint the auditor in relation to independence. The VVD is pleased that these points are now really getting a legal effect. However, the VVD believes that the new measures should be given the opportunity and time to take effect. The auditors themselves are now the most important party and they are committed to regaining confidence. There's a lot of work to be done right now. It is a good thing that the sector has already started its own work in recent years and has presented 53 measures, but they are certainly not there yet. As far as I am concerned, cultural change is the biggest challenge and the biggest job for the accounting industry. Unfortunately, changing the route is still too slow here and there. Especially in small oblast offices there is still a lot of work to be done. The quality of statutory audits carried out by the auditors is still too often assessed by the AFM as insufficient. The AFM report of June 2017 did not show any improvement either. 19 of the 32 statutory audits examined were insufficient. How many of these cases have an unauthorized auditor's clearance been issued? When does the Minister expect the measures that have been launched to be effective? The VVD sees the risk of a compliance culture: just ticking lists and looking at what the supervisor thinks is important. That would not be a good thing as far as we are concerned, because the accountant needs to look more broadly. How can we prevent that? Let us be clear, the quality of these statutory audits absolutely must be improved. That is in the interests of confidence and of the market. It is striking, however, that the AFM and the American supervisor, not the least strict, do not always come to the same judgment. The AFM considers a file insufficient and the PCAOB considers the same file sufficient. Differences also appear to exist with the United Kingdom. What's the reason for that? There has been a debate on the criteria for the quality of controls, and we do not think that is a good thing. To what extent is that unclear? How can we ensure that people are aligned, including internationally? I'll be on legal protection. At the request of the VVD and D66, the Minister drew up a letter on legal protection in relation to the supervisors. In fact, this letter pays little attention to the concentration of different tasks in the supervisory authority as a regulator and enforcer. How does the Minister view that? Furthermore, the VVD considers that the AFM's objection procedure in the fitness test should be more independent and should be more independent, as is the case in neighbouring countries. So more as is the case now, an independent President who has no substantive role. What is the Minister's response to this? Is he willing to set this thing in motion? In 2016 the VVD submitted an amendment to the Implementation Act for statutory audits that did not reach the net. The vote was suspended and the roll-call vote was wrong once. The VVD now wants to table that amendment again. The Directive states that the competent authorities may initiate proceedings before a national court for dismissal. The VVD feels that a tough decision that really belongs in a court of law. The amendment provides that the AFM cannot decide independently to dismiss auditors. Instead, the AFM may apply to the Business Chamber of the Court which has the most relevant expertise. So it's still possible. I hope, of course, for the support of the parties who supported the amendment at the time. Regulation often affects the market: competition, diversity and consolidation. To what extent does the regulation that we have put in place have negative effects? What risks does the Minister see in this respect for the accounting sector in the coming years? Some municipalities are already unable to find an accountant, while they have to provide an approved statement. A shortage of auditors has also been reported. The Minister points out market forces in the report. Of course it is, but that is not complete. After all, the market has changed because of all the institutions that have gained obe status in a short period of time, such as the corporations. How does the Minister view that? The VVD has previously asked questions about the costs of the audit as a result of the new regulation. The auditors have said: we will accept them as much as possible. Is there any indication of the development of audit costs for companies and institutions? We are dealing with a law today, which we might sometimes forget, and ask for clarification in the note on the report. They are also important for the legislative process. Among other things, the VVD asked about the audit committee's possible obligation to report the main findings and conclusions in serious cases. The report states that shareholders can request information from the accountant themselves. But what you don't know, you can't ask. How does the Minister view that? How does he look at the possibility of legally enabling auditors to make interim communications about their audit when a company encounters difficulties in obtaining the annual accounts? The response in the note to the report does not make it any clearer as regards the implementation of recovery measures. On the one hand, there is no consideration of proportionality, on the other hand, the regulator does balance interests. That's confusing for us. Can the Minister clarify that? A suspension procedure for the Lower House of an AMvB is deleted. In the report, we asked how the Chamber would be informed. There was a very long answer to that, but it was not an answer to the question, so again the question of how the Chamber will be informed. Is it true that if the policy of an audit firm is determined primarily by the mother, the supervisory board set up by the daughter must supervise the management of the mother? What should be included in the draft decision of the Supervisory Board submitted to the shareholders? Is that a single nomination or is it two choices with a motivated preference of the audit committee? Finally, when can the Decision be expected to include additional measures for audit firms? This concerns the lower regulation of the system of independent internal supervision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The two previous speakers said it: the auditor has a public task. He can build trust with that, but he can break it. This makes it very important that the auditor and the audit firm always carry out work of the same high level. Unfortunately, that is far from always the case. The various scandals have already been discussed at the beginning of this debate. The sector has been changing since 2014. Measures have been taken such as the mandatory office rotation mentioned above. Change projects have been launched by the sector itself with quality measures. And yes, in the end, the implementation of the cultural change will really have to take place at offices themselves. A cultural change can only be enforced to a very limited extent. The AFM's investigation also shows that we are far from there. More than half of the statutory audits examined do not receive sufficient from the supervisor. This applies to the control itself, but also to the justification of the opinion contained in the audit report. According to the AFM, the errors are of the same nature as before. The AFM indicates that quality is not sufficiently driven and that rewards in this sector are still not given on the basis of quality. It's a worrying picture. And yes, there are also some small points of light, such as the fact that a number of large offices generally guarantee the implementation of the change process. All in all, however, it appears that the sector still has a long way to go. It is sometimes about meters, but much more often they still have miles to go. In this context, I attach importance to a quick repetition of the AFM research with more up-to-date data. I am aware that the figures for 2014 and 2015 are now at stake and that this is a little back. Has another study been planned, for example next year about 2017? Then we can see if any steps have been taken in the last three years. Can the Minister also indicate how much time he thinks the sector should have? Of course, it's gonna be finite. Quite apart from the question of how to take further steps as legislators, it is of course true that we cannot go on indefinitely with this long journey, which we have felt should have accelerated since 2012, 2013, 2014. There's another bill in front of us today to take steps. What's the Minister's image? What does he think of the progress made? Is he confident that it will continue with force? If that is not the case, then I have a fear that we will have a debate here in three years' time that will be very similar to today's. I still have a number of specific questions about the present legislative proposal, which often means that measures already implemented by the large four offices are also protected by law. That's good. It is also a good thing to check whether those who determine policies on a daily basis really meet the eligibility requirements. For example, we have also seen in pension funds that this can make a huge difference. My first question concerns internal supervision. Mrs De Vries has already cut that point. Can it indeed be that a supervisory board set up with a daughter should supervise the management of her mother? That sounds like a complicated construct to me. How does the Minister see this? Is that a picture? And, if so, how will that take shape in practice? My second question concerns the use of open standards. The Council of State warns that when using too open standards, there is a risk that you will not guarantee sufficient legal protection, for example through differences in interpretation. I am a fan of customization, but also of clarity when it comes to supervision. The Minister is very positive about customisation, but the Council of State points out that this is sometimes vulnerable and that even legal protection may be compromised. Can the Minister explain that difference of opinion? How does he ensure that the use of open standards does not jeopardise clarity? Does the law allow the AFM to share information with the Tax Office, the FIOD and the Public Prosecutor's Office? The Financial Supervision Act and the way in which it is regulated have been applied. This is a broader point which I would like to draw attention to. The Council of State is actually asking whether this tightening-up is sufficiently focused on auditors. We can always join the Financial Supervision Act, but the audit role is also a very special one. I find it more striking in the legislative proposal that the Minister constantly refers to the Financial Supervision Act in many of the questions asked. I ask him to address the question of how he sees the differences between the role of an accountant and, more broadly, that of the financial sector. I think these are two really different roles. I like trying to get a line on other laws, but is that always appropriate? The Wft is referred to continuously very quickly and quite easily. I challenge the Minister to answer the question as to where the main differences lie. This is a point of interest to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. We've been struggling with the banking crisis for over ten years now. Last Monday, the Financial Times announced that the number of banks facing financial problems is increasing again. It's to be desperate. But with the auditors, we have been working for a long time to tackle a sector that does not carry out the public task well enough. The major accounting scandals date from around the millennium change. Think of Enron. In our country, this led to the Auditor Organisations Act of 2006. We have to note that since then, all the stricter regulations and supervision of the AFM have not led to fewer discussions and fewer incidents. Today we are talking about the next round of stricter laws and regulations. Just before the summer, the AFM's report showed that despite new rules and agreements in the sector itself the controls are not in order. Of the 32 audit files examined, 19 did not meet. That's more than the 2014 investigation. In addition, the AFM concludes, the offices are not moving too fast with all the improvement measures they themselves have promised. It's to be desperate. I'm about to comment on the measures contained in the bill. Against the background of the AFM research, you only get the idea that even though these measures are a courageous attempt to change the culture of the accounting industry, the lack of culture, a culture which is not sufficiently focused on the sound and trustworthy performance of the public task, is too persistent for plastering. Maybe the time is coming when we need to talk about a bigger operation. In his letter in response to the AFM report, the Minister stated that all measures should be given the opportunity to achieve the desired cultural change and impact. If there are any signs of a cultural change, I ask the Minister. What can be seen from the fact that the public task of audit firms is carried out better than before? Is he optimistic about that? If so, what is optimism based on? According to the Minister, it is not yet time for fundamental discussions on the revenue model of accountancy; Mrs Leijten also spoke about this. It is first up to the sector to develop a cultural change, and it is also up to the sector itself to engage in more fundamental discussions. That is why we are waiting, for example, for a green paper from the sector itself, which is also about the earning model. I would be pleased if the Finance Minister, and his successor, would act more actively on this and, for example, at European level, encourage a more fundamental discussion. I understand very well that in the Netherlands we cannot simply introduce a completely different income model, but the Minister's answer that another earning model is not desirable because it takes a lot of time, resources and energy is too patient for me. The AFM also states, following the latest report, that it is not directly concerned with new measures, but it does not want to avoid that fundamental discussion. AFM director Gerben Everts believes that difficult questions should be asked and answered about the organisational structure, the collaboration between partners, seniors and juniors, which results in a lack of critical results internally, but also wider about the earning model of audit firms. Can you really be independent if you're paid by the company you have to control? This is what he asked himself in a speech for the sector he gave at the beginning of June, i.e. during the period of presentation of the report. Everts said that the AFM is going to look into alternative earning models. Then why doesn't the Minister do that? I'd like to get a reaction to that. I'll get on the bill. Of course, I support the measures contained in the bill. All these measures aim to contribute to the better performance of the public task of auditors. You can't argue with that. GroenLinks therefore supports these measures. I ask a few questions because the final implementation of the law is important for effectiveness. There will be a fitness test for policy makers, but the standards still have to be determined by the supervisor. The AFM has conducted an internet consultation on this subject. Is there any more clarity about the content and implementation of that test? There will also be a system of independent internal supervision. A General Measure of Management shall determine the organisation of such a measure. Can the Minister say more about how this supervision is going to work? When will we be able to understand the detailed rules for independence and the powers that determine how robust that internal supervision is? On the question of the enforcement of recovery measures, I would like to say the following. That proposal seems perfectly logical to me: you have not done your job properly, do it again and fix the mistakes. But especially now that the AFM has found that there are many faulty controls, this raises the question of whether there should be a bigger stick behind the door to stimulate accountants to better work and to ensure that the culture within oob accountants' offices will change. We now have these statutory rotation periods and I shall be doing so, and with my colleagues from the SP and the Labour Party, it would be a good idea to be able to impose the measure that a year later another partner in the office or even another office will carry out the control. So you could speak of a mandatory and accelerated rotation in case of defective work, imposed by the AFM. We ask the Minister to explore such a proposal together with the AFM legally and practically. I would like to receive a response, and I hereby announce that I have prepared a motion with colleagues Nijboer and Leijten containing this request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	I have an enlightening question. Does Mr Snels emphasise the change of office or the exchange of the responsible accountant in person?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am primarily concerned with the accountant, the partner, because I do not only see such a proposal as a punishment, but perhaps it is too harsh an occasional penalty, so I am curious to see that exploration by the AFM....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I can imagine if there's such a stick behind the door that you lose your client if you don't do it right, the culture changes in an office like this. That is why I think it is an interesting idea and I would like to see the exploration of it by real lawyers. Finally, this. There is a debate on a European directive............................................................................................................................................................... The Netherlands is in favour of regulating this also legally. But shouldn't this reporting also apply to accountants rather than just to tax advisors within the offices? What is the government's view of this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. The discussion of this bill has been somewhat overshadowed by the AFM report on accountants, which came to us just before the summer, but in fact that report shows even more the need for the measures now in force in this law. To be honest, the CDA supports the bill. That's not so crazy either. Accountants play a very important role in our country. They are important for the reliability of our financial system, for the control and loyalty of public expenditure or expenditure of other public institutions. It is therefore important that the credibility of auditors is beyond doubt. Unfortunately, things are going wrong there and not quite so. Internationally, of course, there was the Enron scandal, which eventually led to us not speaking of the big five in the international accounting world, but of the big four. The famous Arthur Andersen went bankrupt, but it's been a while. In recent years there have been several accounting scandals in the Netherlands in which auditors have played a negative role. This is detrimental to confidence in the sector. It is not for nothing that the sector itself put forward proposals for improvement in 2014. The AFM has been monitoring the sector very closely for several years now. It's not just trouble and torment. We do not, of course, hear about the checks where nothing goes wrong. In most cases, things are just going well, but "just right" is not good enough for the accounting industry. After this introduction, the most important questions are, of course, whether this law will ultimately ensure the desired quality stroke and whether that quality stroke will be made. In other words, what is the impact of the measures? Every year, the General Court reminds us that it is often unclear whether policies achieve the desired effect. We therefore asked the Minister in the written round when he felt that the legislation could be described as a success. The Minister was right to say that not only this law determines the quality of statutory audits. Soon new AFM reports will have to tell us if the intended quality has been achieved, but what happens if that quality is still disappointing? The last interim report wasn't encouraging. What instruments does the Minister have in his pocket to bring about change? I would like a response from the Minister. The following comment concerns the suitability test for auditors' directors. The CDA strongly supports this measure. However, we still have some hesitation about the fact that the AFM is not only allowed to formulate the requirements that drivers have to meet, but is also responsible for their enforcement. The Minister pointed out that it was ultimately up to the Administrative Court to assess whether the general principles of good administration were being complied with. Our question is whether this is in any way better to guarantee in advance. We believe that referring to the court should be the final part of the discussion and not the beginning. As far as disciplinary law is concerned, two weeks ago it was announced that the Dutch Professional Organisation of Accountants has filed 35 disciplinary complaints about not taking the professional oath. That sounds like a lot, but 17,000 accountants are lucky enough to have that number. However, it is not clear to us why, as with the banker's oath, a legal hook has not come. What exactly is the difference between the bankers and the accountants? A legal anchor can give such an oath even more prestige. However, we also understand that it is not necessary at the moment, since many people have taken the oath introduced by the sector. So we don't want it to be legal at the moment. However, I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister on the differences in approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. We're talking about the accountancy sector today. This sector has gone through a deep decline in recent years. Affected by one scandal after another, the sector fell through the ice. For a list of all these scandals, I would like to refer to Mrs Leijten's contribution. She went into it in detail. The confidence in the good image of the public referee disappeared like snow for the sun, but the sector promised to get better. They were going to reinvent themselves, as promised. An improvement plan was put in place with 53 measures and a Monitoring Committee on Accounting was set up to monitor progress. That was three years ago. Where are we now? Disappointing to speak with the Minister's words. The Minister is right to ask whether the sector is on the right track. Does the sector deserve the confidence to make improvements itself? Is the package of measures at the heart of the problem? These questions were answered in writing by the Minister. I would like him to answer those questions today. Can he answer these questions? Because the AFM concludes that the changes are far too slow: too little, too slow. The quality of controls has even deteriorated compared to three years ago. The quality of 59% of the files is insufficient. Three years ago, that was 45%. Does the sector want to change? Or is it symbolic politics? How is it possible that the accountancy sector is performing worse than three years ago? Hasn't the sector learned anything at all? Isn't the bill too thin, given the knowledge of today? Don't you think it's time to step in a lot harder? The Minister sits on his hands and gives the sector even more time. The PVV does not understand this lax attitude. Does the Minister still have faith in it or does he leave this hot potato for his successor? The MCA even concludes that 53 measures in the improvement plan do not contribute sufficiently to solving the real problems, the real structural problems. They call them the wicked problems, like the earning model and the partner model. How do we tackle the problem of fraud? How do we restore the balance between public interest and client interest and the tension between social function and profit maximization? Those are all questions and all problems that remain unanswered. I read in the Minister's letter that the Public Interest Steering Group will pick up this end of this year in a green paper. Does the Minister really leave this to the sector itself? For us, it is incomprehensible that the date of entry into force has been postponed to 1 June 2018. The PVV wants to address the problems in the accountancy sector as soon as possible. We shouldn't reward bad behavior with a six-month delay. Therefore, as regards the PVV, the date of entry into force remains 1 January 2018. Finally, I would like to focus briefly on noises that point to the massive departure of the most risky customers, such as municipalities and housing corporations, as a result of the strict AFM supervision. Are these sounds true? What are the dangers of this? How is the Minister going to ensure that municipalities and housing corporations do not run out of accountants? 'Cause then we'll be even further away from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr. Chairman. Here we are, more than three years after the first parliamentary debate. There have been many debates about accounting, but this was after a number of scandals. At that time, the Chamber said that it is enough; the sector really needs to improve, the quality is far below its size; that nonsense, for example, when partners buy an office and then rent it out to other partners of an office with a tax structure that turned out to be illegal in the past year, must really be over. I myself tabled a motion on this subject, which was widely supported. At that time, the majority of the Chamber said that we, as legislators, cannot enforce quality by law. So not: your quality is higher and therefore you have to take one or two measures, and then it has happened. We have given the sector the opportunity to introduce 53 measures, something they themselves have come up with; that was the result of improving quality. I think that three years later, we must conclude that this has not been enough. The AFM came up with a critical report. Of course, the sector has a point: that report is seen a year before, and in a year of course you have not been able to take all the measures. That is what the sector is right about. But the big four, and then the five other large offices that conduct the most important audits in the Netherlands, appear to perform far and far below the standard. And with that, we don't agree on the smaller offices. So we're really not there yet. Let us then look at the reaction of the sector to the committee which he himself set up to look at how he is doing. He says there are fundamental problems. There were several questions about the earning model and the quality, something the AFM is mainly on. But what does the public actually expect from auditors and an approved audit opinion; what is such a statement really worth? That is a fundamental discussion. The answer to that is a green paper. But this alarming report is from November, and says that these 53 things are not going well, but there really needs to be more. The answer: in the autumn we come up with a discussion piece, a green paper. It can't be. That is asking the legislator to take tough measures. The PvdA Group supports the legislative proposals before us, just like the other groups, if I have heard them correctly. However, there are more legislative proposals to improve the situation within these 53 measures: an independent supervisory board, which has, of course, already been partially introduced; the supervision of the AFM is strengthened; a fitness test. Those are all good things, which can really help to improve quality. The limitation period shall also be extended. However, I ask the Minister why it has not been extended to ten years, as is customary in the medical world. So why was it chosen for six years? After all, it is about complicated financial matters. Look at how long this case lasted around that KPMG office; we had the ruling on this last year. For ten years, I don't think it's that crazy for a sector like this. I am considering an amendment on this point, but I would first like to await the Minister's reply. However, all this is not an answer to the fundamental problems. The PvdA Group is now, quite frankly, ready to take legal action. If, in November, the sector receives a report from a committee that he himself set up, which says that it really has to be done in a fundamental way, that it really cannot go forward with that model of earning, with the expectations that people have of annual accounts, that the quality is below the mark, and that we actually have nothing at all almost a year after that, this cannot seem to be left to that sector. The PvdA continues to find the earning model one of the most pressing points, as well as the financial interests, the interests of the various groups within such an office. Several speakers have already said this: auditors serve the public interest, the figures must be correct. It's legally required for companies to have this, so it's really about a public function, like a notary who also has. That really is a fundamentally different function from management advice or, even more importantly, tax advice. I myself was allowed to chair a committee on behalf of this Chamber. In the findings we made some comments about the morals that fiscalists have in such offices. All this does not really relate to the public function of auditors. That is why the next question really arises. There are audit firms where fiscalists work who are only paying as little tax as possible and writing as many hours as possible. Do they still belong in an office that serves the public interest, with so little progress being made on the key functions that the accountant has? I'd like to put that question here. I see the sector in the Chamber now too. If the quality remains so inadequate, the wage model is so under discussion and so little progress is made, then at some point this question will also be answered by politics. Then it's asking for political intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Court's first term contribution. After the suspension, we're gonna listen to the minister in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	I shall give the floor to the Minister for the first time to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the members for their input on this bill, with the input of many went far beyond the legislative proposal. That says something about what's going on in the sector. In the first place, I would like to dwell on the fact that our former colleague Mr Van Vliet, who was always very active on the issue of accountancy, came to mind. Suddenly I missed him. I just wanted to share this emotion with you. He has taken many initiatives in recent years. He was also one of the people who tabled amendments on the splitting of advisory and control practices and the compulsory rotation of offices. He has always played a strong role in this. In today's speech, the word'scandals' came along, I think, everyone. I've been trying to keep up. That is, of course, the context in which, the decor against which we are taking all these measures, namely a persistent pattern of failing accountants. This has to do not only with too high expectations in society about what auditors should and can do, but also with real responsibility and culpability of individual auditors and sometimes of offices. It's a pattern. The role of auditors is very much about the question of trust. That is the added value of auditors. We need to be able to trust them. So that pattern is frisky for the whole sector. There is a great impatience in the contribution of the Chamber. I'll share that. At the same time, in recent years, we have done a great deal of work and set it in motion. I mentioned all the amendments tabled by Van Vliet and Plasterk, which were quickly followed by European legislation. This legislation has now also been implemented, with the separation of advice and control at the level of the client. In addition, rotation is mandatory, so you do not sit endlessly at the same accounting firm and a healthy professional distance is created between the client and the auditor. Steps have been taken at European level. The sector itself has been explicitly challenged by the Chamber. I was reminded of that when I listened to Mr Nijboer, who did so again very explicitly. That was also what happened in 2013. That is where the sector, I believe, came up with a report in 2014, and it has taken many initiatives itself. So that pressure from the chamber works. The sector has taken many initiatives, which are currently being implemented. In addition, it is striking that the large offices lead the way. They may have the organisational power and the professionalism to make this kind of change in the organization. It's not going fast or well enough, but that process is going on. The third, European and complementary element of the sector is the legal measures we take here in national legislation. This also takes time. So we'll be walking around for a while, I predict. If the Minister is satisfied, I will answer no. When will the Minister be satisfied? When the compilation of all these measures from the sector at national level leads to an increase in the quality of the audit, as is shown by AFM reports, and when even more importantly, our confidence in accountancy is restored. Many of the measures we are taking are, of course, I am looking for a Dutch word, I wanted to say circumstantial conditional for a proper organisation of the audit. One question that concerns us all and which you also see in the report of the monitoring committee is whether we are touching the core enough. That question needs to be answered. There are two ways to do that. You can already conclude that we are going straight to the core and that we are going to fundamentally address the way in which the sector and audit organisations are organised, with their earning model and so on. You can also say that we have now put so many measures around here to ensure that we have to give them a chance and we have to wait and see. The risk of the latter approach is, of course, that in two years' time, I think that the measures that started from 2014 should finally have their impact in the AFM...................................................................................................................................................................................... I....................................................... What's that? That is why I think we will have to work in parallel. The sector is picking that up, too. I say this carefully, because there is a report from the monitoring committee in which it says, first of all to the sector itself, that you should taste, cut and dissect that hot potato once. The sector is doing the same and will present a report this autumn. I would like to call on the sector to follow the sound of many people in the Chamber, not only to look at the current model of earning, but also to take a next step and also to explain what the alternatives would be with the advantages and disadvantages. I think that's important. I will also ask my officials in parallel to ensure that, should the sector not be able to deliver this autumn, the ministry itself will soon come up with that analysis of alternative models, with advantages and disadvantages. It is not for me to take a position on it now, but I am sure that a next cabinet will do so. I think that analysis should be carried out. That debate must be held. You should also be able to have that debate. Some ideas have already been mentioned today. We need to think this through. Are we going to take these perverse incentives or are we going to create new perverse incentives? Can it be European law? Can it be competition law? Is it effective in an accountancy world where international companies in the Netherlands are also active? Those advantages and disadvantages must be reflected. So I call on the sector to do so itself and also to consider the alternatives. In parallel, my ministry will do preparatory work for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'm glad to hear that. Of course, we'll wait and see what comes out of the sector. I think he certainly heard this public call. I also think it's a good thing that the Ministry itself is getting to work. In writing, I asked whether we should give these private parties a role in our public and semi-public sector and in what is being generated by taxpayers and contributors. The Minister has actually already rejected that. If he is going to look at alternative earning models and the pros and cons, I would ask him to take this with him. Is he willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	That is the most far-reaching variant, where the entire accountancy, the entire audit job there is removed or separated in such a way that it would really become a public company. It doesn't appeal to me personally. I do not believe that private organisations cannot carry out tasks that have a public interest, but then you have to guarantee it very well. Can it be included in the analysis? Of course. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	I'm glad it's included in the analysis. What strikes me is that I happen to know the care sector quite well from my previous spokesmanship..... is that there is an enormous amount of public control over the legality of expenditure etc. but that when it comes to matters such as business management it is suddenly left to the accountant. Where supervisors such as the Dutch Healthcare Authority and De Nederlandsche Bank already know a lot, ask a lot of questions and keep a lot of control and supervision, I do not think it is such a big step to transfer management to that public control and accountability as a final piece. Anyway, the minister's gonna take it. At least this is the example I have in mind. Mr Van Dijck referred to the report that audits of municipalities or housing corporations would rather not be carried out by auditors. If the private sector itself says it doesn't want to do this anymore, you'll have to see how that can be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	Sure, but that's a more practical problem. The monitoring committee itself does not yet mention an alternative or preference. Of the package of measures that are being taken, it does not say that it is all wrong. It indicates: there are very sensible and good things in it, but what we are looking for is a much stronger underpinning of the link between what we are doing in terms of measures and what we want to achieve in terms of quality. The committee says that one of the things that is missing in the analysis is how to deal with the perverse incentives contained in the earning model and with the conflict, the conflict between client interest and social interest. She mentions a number of themes where the link between what we are doing and what is actually the problem is not well thought out. That is why I believe that this time we should make up for this analysis before we impose a further, further measure. Mrs Leijten is proposing that this should be a good solution if public money is to be taken away from private organisations and a new public form of control. So she's already looking at a solution. But before we take and stack further measures: the monitoring committee is not calling for new legislation at the moment. I noticed that most of all in her advice. Let us make the analysis of what we are going to do and what we are actually achieving much tighter. That is indeed the vulnerability of all the things we have now rigged. Like I said, they're circumstantial. They're all going around it. If you change the governance and internal supervision of an organisation, and that's what this bill does - it can contribute to a different way of looking at quality, monitoring quality and cultural change. That can certainly contribute to that. It matters very much whether the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board that is set up will do so and will also do so professionally and actively. That's all conditional, but not necessarily the core. By the way, I think it is, in relation to what we are doing here, all an open door, although that is not quite the right word. It is actually about the very basic internal hygiene of an organisation, the organisation of internal supervision. You wonder how these organizations could have grown so big without a sound system of internal supervision, and that with an accountant. In that sense, what we are doing here is not revolutionary. In the rest of the economy and society, the sector is working on something that is completely normal. It's not a big leap forward yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	I must say that I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment that he is now going to put his ministry to work to make a truly fundamental analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of earning models, especially since I indicated in my first term that I thought the Ministry was a little too patient in the letter and in the note on the report. So I'm glad. I think it is up to us to keep that commitment to the next Finance Minister. I do have one more question. I see it as a task for this Minister of Finance and the following to conduct this discussion in a European context. If we are really going to have a fundamental discussion about auditors, we cannot do so alone in the Netherlands. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think that's true. I have already mentioned the questions of European law that would raise a very different set-up, such as the question of competition. Foreign audit firms can also simply become active in the Netherlands. We may think that in the Netherlands we are going to separate Dutch organisations further or whatever, but we cannot simply impose that on other organisations. That road wouldn't be effective. The European context is therefore very important. It is already important to think about meaningful improvements. If you then encounter European legal objections, but would like to go that way, you will have to deal with European law. Well, I guess that's a bit of an extension, then. Before I continue my speech, I have one more comment to make. It is about the questions: how to proceed and can we be satisfied? No one is satisfied, neither is the sector itself and the AFM at all. It was asked when another AFM study will be launched. When's the thermometer going back in? When can we say it was supposed to happen, so we're going to pass on now? The AFM has not yet clarified this, but I think it is important that further steps are taken. This study is from June this year. The AFM, I believe, is going to extend the research from the four large to the nine oob organizations first. That's the first step forward. The second is that I think next year they are going to do another study on the implementation of the whole package of change measures, so is the quality better? But to the introduction of all these measures. That's on the agenda next year. I think that the year after that, in 2019, we should have a new report from the AFM, which really looked at the quality of those reports on the basis of a sample. Then we can take advantage of the time, but of course it is up to the Chamber and the new minister to debate further options.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	I had a motion with this call in preparation. I'm kind of looking for the right time. I'll find 2019 a long way away. Now, of course, the AFM is mostly about its own work and capacity deployment, but is the Minister's picture that if you do that research earlier, for example at the end of next year, you will have some serious insight into the financial year 2017? We do not, of course, have to complete what we are discussing today in legislation. We'll have 2014. I actually think 2017 is a nice year. The Minister tastes my impatience. I'm also looking here for what's just realistic and feasible. I'm telling you, I'm gonna find 2019 far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'm just wondering if the AFM could do that in its planning sooner, because it's not up to me to judge that. We'd like to come to a conclusion sooner. What I fear is that you will then have the discussion again as to whether the effects of all the measures could have been visible in the data on which the research is based. You must realise that the research that was published in June was done on the basis of data from 2014 and 2015. I don't know if it works at all as one-on-one, but when we have an investigation in 2019, we're probably talking about dates from 2016 and 2017. That is why I say: if you are too quick, you will have the discussion again about whether it is feasible to see the effects of all measures in the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the second term or perhaps at the end of his first term, he can indicate what financial year we will be talking about if we do the research in 2019. I feel sorry for you. At the same time, as a chamber and minister, we have a shared impatience. That gives me a slightly more detailed picture of whether the Minister's assessment of the thumb, which I can follow, is correct. That helps me to consider what could now be a realistic date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	My officials will probably be able to give you a note on that. Then we can deal with that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	If the report in 2019 is about 2016 and 2017, then I think we are in a trap again. After all, the audit firms are now indicating that they are implementing hard, that they really want to and that they will carry out those 53 points. They say that we have either introduced all these measures or we are going to introduce them. But of course they will say: yes, but this is about a financial year in which we have indicated that we are working hard, but that we are not yet able to make it. They're asking us for more time, too. Who then gives us the assurance that in 2019 we can really say that there is a true picture of the impact of the measures we are taking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mrs Leijten is also politically experienced. Of course there will be people in the sector, even when the report comes in five years from now: yes, but we are busy with changes and give us time. But I also know Mrs Leijten as someone who doesn't let herself be thrown in the reed with a rug. I think that if there is a new AFM study in 2019, you can argue with the industry: yes but boys or girls, the data in this study are so recent that we should have really seen the effect of everything you are doing. Then you can say, and I don't see it. Or you can see it, and then maybe we'll have a more positive discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	The political experience and the assessment of reports are, of course, different for each group. I have the same feeling as Mr Van Weyenberg that 2019 is a bit far away. That's five years after the introduction of all those changes from 2014. That should be completed by 2019. Then there must be a cultural change. Is it not possible for the AFM, for example, to make a sample in 2018 and send the results to us? Then the time for monitoring and the deadline for delivering the report will be shortened somewhat, which will allow us to make an earlier assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	You must imagine that the AFM proposals are a sample. But if you're gonna take a sample, it's gonna have to be some size, otherwise I already know what the next argument is. That sample is very intensive work. Each file you pull will not only be examined if the accountant has done good things but will also be looked at what he bases himself on. That's where things often go wrong. Have the underlying figures been checked? Is the system by which the figures were generated from the client sound? So it's really going a long way. One of the terms is "putting the finger in it." We also know the term "temperature recording." But that won't help us. Perhaps we can agree that I will discuss with the AFM what is possible, what is her intention and whether it is possible to speed things up, heard the wishes of the Chamber. But I don't give false expectations. I hope that the timetable I outline is feasible. I have indicated which follow-up steps the AFM already has in the planning. I call it expanding four to nine oob accountants. Then there is the step towards the implementation of all these measures. How's that going? Then there is the quality research large offices. But I suggest that we return to this in writing. I'll check with the AFM if this is her planning, if this is feasible, and if there are any possibilities for acceleration. I'll let the Chamber know. But suppose the AFM says: sorry, but this is it; it can't be faster and we're definitely not going to turn in on the quality of our work. Then I'm gonna stand behind her. Then it's the way it is. This means that we will have this debate again in 2019. Hopefully the basis will be much more positive, with a much more positive report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	The Minister continues his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	I now turn to the many questions that have been asked. One of the questions concerns the system of internal independent supervision. Mrs De Vries and Mr Van Weyenberg asked about an audit firm that is part of a network with an international mother. How can the independent internal supervision of policies be carried out from the mother's point of view? We also know this situation in other international holding companies. As soon as they have a legal person in the Netherlands with their own internal supervision exercised on the basis of Dutch law, the board of directors often has an independent power and responsibility derived from the law. They must defend the interests of that undertaking. They must, of course, respect the Dutch law. It's no different here. On the basis of this law, they are given a legal task and competence, responsibility for the company in the Netherlands. Of course, the legal person must comply with Dutch requirements, which are often European. Suppose there is a conflict and the mother says: we all think that quality policy is bullshit; get rid of it. Then the Supervisory Board does not only have a strong own responsibility for the legal person to which it supervises on the basis of the law. The supervisory board therefore knows itself supported by Dutch legislation and the Dutch supervisor. It also has instruments to intervene in this and, if necessary, support the Supervisory Board. Please note that in most cases the following applies in the accountancy. They are often parts of major international organisations, but it is not the case that the type of policy we are talking about is determined by the international organisation. The large offices in the Netherlands determine to a large extent their own policies, their conception and implementation of quality, personnel policy and so on, including the organisation, the partner model and the earning model and so on. These are determined to a predominant extent in the Netherlands and within the Dutch organisations. The AFM therefore supervises the Dutch requirements. Mrs De Vries asked a question about the principle of proportionality in the obligation to take remedial measures. It's also in this bill. There are situations where the taking of such remedial measures is not proportionate, for example in view of the time lag or the relevance of the information. That is conceivable, but the starting point is that recovery is taking place. I am not saying that this is a misunderstanding for Mrs De Vries, but the fact that the quality is inadequate does not mean that the statement, the approving auditor's statement, was wrongly issued. Only you don't know. That might be the case, but then it's actually a coincidence. Then it went wrong with the underlying figures or the way in which those figures were verified. The conclusion may still be that it looks good in itself, but it may be that what it is based on has not been sound. Hence the importance of adopting the recovery measures. The decision shall deal with the establishment of the body of internal supervision. The rules contained in that Decision concern additional measures. These relate to the additional powers and tasks of the body, the establishment of the system, the independence of its members and the matters on which the body should be informed. It is also about powers such as: The body determines the level and composition of the remuneration of day-to-day policy makers. Decisions of the audit body which may affect the quality of checks shall be subject to the approval of the internal supervisory body. The AMvB is expected to be placed before the Chamber in November. Then she can see exactly if we're doing the right thing. Mr Ronnes asked a question about the oath, also in relation to the banker's oath. One of the measures contained in the NBA report "So taken at the own initiative of the sector "S' concerns the introduction of the auditor's oath. I've been at those ceremonies a number of times. This has also been implemented in the professional regulations of the NCA, the regulation on the professional oath. The oath had to be taken by all auditors active in the Netherlands before 1 May this year. 99.8% did. 95 accountants didn't do it. The NBA filed a disciplinary complaint about that. However, all this does not give me any reason to anchor the oath in the law, because there is 99.8% compliance, while a very small company has not yet done it. The sector itself is taking action on this. For the banks, the oath is incorporated into the law. Mr Ronnes asked why there? I understand that the CDA also says, "We don't have to do this in the law, but why do we have to do this for the banks?" This was done at the request of the financial sector, i.e. the banking sector itself. It was said in that regard: just put it in the law, because then we will have no more discussion about it. Apparently, there was the expectation that this would lead to discussion or disgust. Now there's no more discussion. It was also said by the banks: Let everyone in our organization take the oath. It is thus laid down in the law, in support of its implementation. In the accounting sector, it went very well without a legal hook, without that anchoring.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	Not about the oath, but about what the minister said before about the fact that out of the 32 files viewed in the big four, 19 files were qualitatively inadequate. The Minister then said that there may have been an unwitting declaration issued; we do not know that. That gave me quite a shock, because does it not require further examination if 60% of the Big Four statements do not have sufficient quality? I don't know how many statements we're talking about in 2014-2015, but I think it's 30,000. If it turns out that we do not know of 60% of the votes, then of course we have a completely different problem in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	Sure. I'm glad the quarter fell. That is exactly the heart of the problem. Look, this is a sample. If this sample were exemplary in terms of the quality of all audit reports, we would have reasonable doubts as to whether the approval was granted. I'm not saying that they're all worthless anymore or that they've all been wrongly granted. You can't conclude that either. But the quality of the method of execution, the quality of the data and of the systems from which the data were generated may be so uncontrolled that there is now doubt as to what that conclusion is actually based on. So the law rules that you have to take remedial measures. This is now, of course, done on the basis of the files that have been lighted by the AFM. All the measures we take, of course, aim to improve quality across the board. This sample and those 19 cases show that we do not know with certainty whether the approving statement has been properly issued. How do we deal with that? We have said that, as soon as you know, you must, of course, take measures to ensure that the statement has been given correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	This is a very small sample of 32, of which 19 do not appear to be satisfactory. Of course, there will be recovery measures on those 19. I believe so, but doesn't this just require a more in-depth investigation into a larger population of approving explanations to see if those 60% are representative of the entire population? Now we have 60%. If that's the case across the entire population, then we have another problem. I'd actually like to hear some alarm bells from this minister. I want to hear him say: here comes the bottom stone; we are going to do a sample not of 32, but 3,200.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	No, because then the question would still be what 3,200 is on the huge size of the number of audit reports in our society, in our economy. This study repeatedly shows that there are real questions about the quality of the work done and the underlying figures and therefore also about the conclusion. I think we should assume that this repeated result really is a strong indication of a broad quality problem. Then there is no point in doing that again with a slightly larger sample and an even larger sample. Let us assume that this is sufficient indication of the quality problem we have here. That is why we are talking about this with such urgency: measures must be taken across the board to deal with it. Mr Van Dijck explains very well why this urgency is so high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then questions were asked about the suitability requirement by Mr Ronnes, but also by Mrs De Vries and others. We have indeed joined the suitability requirement for the financial sector in the Wft. An open standard has also been chosen, which the AFM has developed in a policy rule. This makes it possible to formulate standards tailored to specific cases. So that is indeed the same system as the financial sector. That makes sense to me, too. The AFM has also gained experience with this. Those experiences have been evaluated recently. This has also led to a slight adjustment. On the basis of that experience, we will continue to work. The eligibility criteria must, of course, be known at the earliest possible stage. In April of this year the AFM offered the design of the policy rule with the eligibility criteria for consultation. The AFM is now working on the completion of this on the basis of all consultation responses. This will be published on the AFM's website, but of course only after the adoption of the bill in the Lower House. So the AFM's a long way off with that. The other pending procedure that I have just referred to and which Mrs De Vries asked for is about the updating of the list of statutory audits. These are the checks for which a permit is required to carry out them. Our consideration was that it seems excessive to us that the House of Representatives should really have to inform not only about any modification of that list but really to ask for permission, in which the Chamber has the opportunity to intervene. Sometimes it's just a wrong reference to an article in a sector law. It is sometimes a matter of very small technical adjustments. In order to reassure Mrs De Vries that this is what this is about and to enable her to pull the Minister's jacket on something more important or bigger, I imagine that we will simply inform the Chamber with a brief letter when this is going on. But that is still a lighter procedure than when we really have to formalize ourselves and wait six weeks for the reaction of the Chamber et cetera et cetera. Then we can switch faster but the Chamber has the opportunity to say: wait a minute, I would like to talk to the Minister about this. Mr Van Dijck made another comment on the entry into force of the bill. Realistically, the entry into force is going to take us to the First Chamber in mid-2018. I will only stay away from the question of whether the Advisory referendum Act still exists by that time. Mrs Leijten says, of course, that the auditors are going to organise an advisory referendum. That could just happen! The question of the independence of the AFM arises both in the fitness test procedure and in the objection phase in AFM decisions. The question is whether a more independent advisory committee would be better. In the Netherlands, we often have the model that you can object to with the organisation that has taken an administrative decision and that there is an internal objection committee. After that, you can still appeal to the judge. This is not only the case with the AFM, but it is the case in the public sector and is also laid down in the Code of Conduct. That model also knows the AFM. Of course you keep arguing: is that independent, isn't that the same organization? Within the AFM, that's separate. So it is really other people, from the legal department, who assess the objection procedures. The Ottow Committee also looked at this. It has reviewed the whole process of suitability and reliability assessment. The Ottow Committee said that the chairman of the Hearing Commission should be independent. That was already the case with the AFM; Ottow saw on the AFM and DNB. The AFM's Board of Appeal already has an independent chairman. The Otto Committee does not recommend having a fully independent committee. She doesn't expect any benefits; she thinks it's well secured within the AFM. I agree. If the Chamber were to take a different view, it would be wise to have a broader debate with the Minister of V and J on this, so that we do not reorganise it differently by public organisation. Again, this design, with an internally organized objection committee and then the possibility of appeal, we know of course by the whole public sector and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	The Minister draws it very widely, to all public organisations. But objection committees are not always about the suitability of someone for a position. That is quite a heavy competence, which has also been laid down by these two specific supervisors, the AFM and DNB. So I think that equation is a bit of a limp. What would be against it? It is now said: yes, the Otto Committee on this. But that committee has also said a great deal about this independence. We also know that people won't go to court on cases like this very soon. I therefore believe that it is important to be able to obtain an independent right at an early stage in the objection procedure when they are not considered appropriate. I never understand the Minister's resistance to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	Well, that's not so much the Minister's resistance. We have asked the Otto Committee to look closely at the progress of this procedure. You are absolutely right to say that these are really far-reaching decisions: people are sometimes de facto banned from performing a particular function in the financial sector, or a supervisory function in an audit firm. So that is really far-reaching, so that it has to be done very accurately. There must be a possibility of appeal and appeal. However, I note that we have secured this, as we have set it up with public organisations, with the government in general. Nor has the Otto Committee said that this must be fundamentally different. There is another problem, but that debate may go too far for now: how can you protect people who think they have been wronged so that they can appeal and object without further damage to themselves and their reputation? Many people hesitate, as you rightly say, to go into the objection phase alone, because they put the spotlights on themselves, which you prefer not to. Legal protection gnaws when people think: yes, I don't go into battle, because then my good name gets damaged and then it becomes known that I oppose my rejection by the supervisor. That's what the Otto Committee is about. We're trying to do that as carefully as possible. I do not think that we are solving that essential problem by removing the objection committee from the AFM. Still, it is quite a step to raise objections, with all the risk of adverse effects that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	The Minister now makes it clear that I would like to remove the entire objection procedure from the AFM. My plea would be: there is now an independent President who in fact has no role to play, just add a few independents to that objection procedure, so that you become more independent. You should not place that procedure completely outside the AFM and DNB, because you do need that expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u39	I will come back to that in the second term. As nuanced as Mrs De Vries says it now, it may be workable. But this is typically a wicked problem: what is the real painful problem? If you object, you do so to the supervisor you'll have a lot to do later. That's why a lot of people think: yes, I'm gonna lose it anyway. Furthermore, you ask yourself how to prevent your good name from being damaged and that it becomes public that you object to a decision by the supervisor. Allow me to return to that in the second term. I'd like to think about it for a moment. Then there is the subject on which the Council of State also draws its attention, namely the concentration of tasks with the supervisory authority. For example, it is a question of the task as maintainer, but also of the task as set of standards. The AFM is a enforcer and licence holder, but has no regulatory powers for the supervision of audit firms. As far as the accountants are concerned, these powers lie more with the sector itself. The NCA has requirements for this, for example in the field of quality. Of course, the AFM is trying to provide clarity, also because the sector is clearly asking for it. The standards explain them by publishing guides and laying down policy rules. So this brings us into the tension between free open standards and leaving responsibility in the sector and a sector that constantly says: supervisor, tell me exactly what is good and what is bad; then I can meet it and then I run no risks. This in turn leads to detailed policy rules. Then other people in the sector say again: yes, but this leads to a culture of ticking, because now we have detailed policy rules, with AFM regulations, which state what we should do and what should not, what should and what should and then we check whether we have done everything. I will say to the sector: either it is between two and one, or you take your own responsibility and explain how you think the law intended it. Of course, you can have a conversation with the AFM about whether you are asking the AFM for clarity and precise rules, but then you should not come up with the story that there is only a culture of ticking now. I have a strong preference for the first model, in which the sector and the companies themselves dare to fulfil that responsibility. Sometimes you'll be told by the AFM that she doesn't think it's good enough. Usually a conversation precedes that. That will allow you to adjust your content. But if you ask it in great detail, you'll also get it in detail. I think that's a road we should be careful about. This also avoids the dilemma that the AFM is standard-setting and will prescribe in detail and then maintain it. That's the point the Council of State pointed out. In this way I immediately answered Mrs De Vries' question about the ticking list. These arise mainly because the sector itself requires precise rules. I don't think we should shoot too far into that. Mr Van Weyenberg asked which investigations are to be carried out and when they will be carried out. We've already talked about that. Mrs De Vries asked in how many cases the approving declaration was wrongly issued. We've just talked about that. You cannot say that these 19 declarations were wrongly issued, but that the certainty that they were rightly issued is not there. That requires repair work. I cannot therefore answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u40	In the meantime, I understand that none of the statements would have been wrongly issued after repair work had been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u41	You're right. This is a correct correction. That's what it says here. In any event, the audit firms themselves have concluded that none of the audit reports, i.e. after they have done the repair work, had to be adjusted. In other words, they were all rightly granted, according to the audit firms. The AFM doesn't do another check on that. That responsibility lies with the accountants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u42	I think it's important for the outside picture that we know this kind of thing, too. Of course, these audits just need to be improved. However, I would be in favour of the AFM also looking at these repairs, because apparently there is no check at all anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u43	They're checking to see if the recovery measures are being taken, but they're not doing control all over again. It is the audit firms that have established something. This bill provides for the AFM to act if the recovery measures are not taken and can enforce them. Those nineteen cases where recovery measures were needed were not reviewed by the AFM: is it true now? I think you should do the whole investigation again, at least for those nineteen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u44	The Minister continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u45	I come to the difference with the American superintendent. The same file is considered insufficient by the AFM, while the American supervisor, the PCAOB, considers it sufficient, Mrs De Vries says. That's right, that's what happened. The AFM had a finding that the American supervisor didn't have. This is partly due to differences in standards. American standards for reporting and auditing may sometimes differ from Dutch standards. It may also be that there are different focus areas in the control performed and that they have just zoomed in on other parts, which makes the results different. So it may be that the final judgment is different. It is an interesting case, if only to see what the differences in practice are with the supervisors. I also think it is interesting for the sector and the AFM to discuss this further. So it can be explained, but we don't have to put it aside right away. We can certainly talk to the sector and the AFM about where this comes from and what we need to think about it. Mr Van Weyenberg said that much is inspired by the Wft. According to him there is even constant reference to the Wft; I felt an escalation in his reasoning. I don't think so. Those two laws, i.e. the Supervisory Accountancy Act and the Financial Supervision Act, have a lot in common and also include similar powers, for example for the AFM. Sometimes there are similar obligations, but there are also great differences. For example, not only the organisation is regulated by the Supervisory Accountancy Act, but the law also sees the auditors working at the organisation. That's really different in the Wft. Accountants also have a different role and responsibility than employees in the financial sector. Accountants check reporting and therefore have to sign the work they do individually. That'll give them a guarantee. That really is a specific and special responsibility. Both groups have a major social role, but there are also differences. Anyway, I don't have to explain the difference. Offering and selling and advising on financial products is really quite different from that controlling task the accountant has. Some spokesmen spoke about the risks that arise in municipalities, for example, or that will arise in the future in the expansion to the oob segment. That enlargement has not yet taken place. Proposals will be put forward to bring more social non-profit organisations in the public or semi-public sector under the oob segment. Is that gonna cause any trouble? Are there enough accountants? Our information is that there are currently no municipalities that have no accountants. There have indeed been bottlenecks in a number of municipalities. It is also true that you certainly hear that noise from the larger audit firms.They are reluctant to have municipalities as customers, because a lot of risks are perceived in audit audits at municipalities. There is intensive consultation between the accountancy and the municipalities. I believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also involved in this process in order to identify the bottlenecks. But again, at the moment, there are no municipalities that are not able to get an accountant. So you can see that medium-sized offices are also going to serve the municipalities in this segment. The same applies to smaller oob offices. We are, of course, following that very closely. We are also talking about this with the sector. Mrs De Vries asked another question about the development of audit costs. Our assumption is that the bill we are discussing today will not lead to an increase in audit costs. The NBA has indicated that it is realistic for audit entities to absorb these costs themselves within their own cost structure. I think there's a beep system here. Should it be very different, the Chamber will probably be the first to spit on my jacket, at least proverbial, because it could be someone else. I have no signals that there are expected to be large increases in costs and therefore in rates. Mr Snels asked a question about the compulsory disclosure of tax structures. I believe that a European agreement was discussed in the Chamber last night. It's not gonna apply to accountants. Accountants are also not allowed to give tax advice. Fiscalists are therefore accountable, but this agreement does not apply to auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u46	It is, of course, a question of the fact that auditors can come across arrangements to avoid tax in the course of an audit of the annual accounts. It would be interesting if accountants would also mention such constructions, as I believe was also exchanged in yesterday's debate. I would find it interesting if the Dutch Government would take that point into account in this European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u47	Then we need to be more precise. It concerns the disclosure of tax advice. That obligation applies when you give tax advice. Mr Snels spoke about an accountant who found something and who then had to inform an authority. However, the legal obligation to disclose relates to tax advice provided by the persons concerned themselves. They need to be reported. The obligation does not apply to accountants. Accountants don't give tax advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u48	I do not know enough about the details of the European debate. I do not think that discussion has yet been concluded either, but it sees the role of the intermediaries. Intermediaries will be required to report on tax structures. Then it is true that tax advisors can be concerned with their own advice, so about new ideas they come up with together with their clients. But you could imagine that they're going to report it on the control side as well if they come across anything. In any case, I would be interested to take this into account in the European debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u49	Let us first define very precisely what the definition of European legislation is "intermediaries." In my opinion, these are people who are really actively involved in setting up the construction. "Construction" sounds like fraud, of course, but it doesn't always have to be. Anyway, let's not have that discussion. So those are people who have a role to play in advising on whether to set up or implement that construction. That's not the auditor's role. So my assumption is that this European agreement does not concern accountants. That's a first check, but I'll just ask my officials if this is true. A second is whether it would not be interesting to extend this duty to people who find something. On the question of whether this has already been discussed in the European debate, I would like to come back in the second term. You had the debate yesterday with the Secretary of State for Finance. So I'm sure you've already asked all these questions to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u50	But the answers are not the same!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u51	Yeah, but then we play a game that, in my opinion, isn't that productive. If you've already had the answer, just accept it. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. Then we shall proceed to the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with a double feeling. I started my first-term input with a list. Not all scandals were in it, but it was a long list of things that went wrong and that social and politically really have a limit to it. The minister says if pressure comes out of the Chamber, it works. I conclude from this that you do not have to wait for the sector, but that the sector needs political pressure. At the same time, we note that what has been put into effect does not yet have the desired result. Still, we're gonna wait a little while to see if it's gonna work. I'm impatient in nature, but I also find it uncomfortable. Every day that there can be another scandal in the newspaper, it also emanates from us: let politics do it. The sentiment is not: gosh, we are out of the crisis; toodle-dokie, we can relax everything again. But that is the case in the financial sector. The banks believe that the bonus policy needs to be tackled and we are once again seeing all kinds of non-performance loans being bought up. Have the lessons learned from the crisis? I don't know. But we are also being called upon here: what are we doing about it in the sector? I had a motion in preparation to speed it up, which also applies to Mr Van Weyenberg, and to say earlier: here we are drawing the line. The Minister has promised that he will see if the AFM can do so, because he has heard the clear wish in the Chamber. Does it make any sense to file that motion? It would have a symbolic effect. I can say very clearly here, like Mr Nijboer, and now it is ready, I am giving the mandate to the sector. But I will say quite frankly that I do not believe in this self-regulation, as we have been doing these calls for years. We have all noted in the debate that we should not only talk about a change in culture, but that the causes of the problems are also organisational and financial in nature. That is what we are now going to get a report on, from the sector itself. The Minister is also going to investigate something, namely the wicked problems. The English language in the financial sector is sometimes also a crime. But time can work against us. Where the sector is given time, this time can work against us as a political one because it also allows the things that we do not regard as socially appropriate to use such a widely used term to happen. I have a double feeling about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u54	Before the idea of being a self-regulation fan is threatening to arise, I note that nothing less is true. The separation of control and advice and compulsory rotation are laid down by law, as are the independent supervisory board. It is, like the legislation we are discussing today, all hard legislation. I just don't believe in that. I still don't believe that you can enforce anything good by law. If the quality is insufficient, if earning models do not function, if people do not do their job properly, and if the partners are more interested in money than in doing their job well, then you cannot deal with these matters with legislation alone. Legislation is needed. I very much agree with Mrs Leijten that self-regulation is not the solution. I certainly don't believe in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u55	I didn't mean to suggest that you have a blind faith in that. I also like it when a politician does that and addresses the sector with the message that it is enough. That's what I like about it. The Minister says that the sector has moved. But when are we gonna find out it's enough? I understand that this is also a political debate, but then if the Minister's answer is that he thinks this is going to be 2019, then I have a double feeling about it. We give him time, but then time can work against us. That is why I do not have a motion for a resolution on this, because I think that the symbolic function is too high. We are talking about incidents and individuals who are not doing well, and we are going to have more control over the inspector. I mentioned it in my speech a little grotesque when we can talk about structural matters. I can imagine that we are making these agreements a little bit in the procedural meeting: that is, of course, all different here when the report from the sector comes on how we look at these difficult issues, whether we should have a debate on them, because that would allow us to play the ascending role again. I refer to organisational and financial matters, the model of earning and the point of loyalty; points that may cross social interests. I've heard the Minister say that control could also happen to the public. I like that, given his previous rejection in the written preparation of a public variant of checking the truthfulness of annual accounts of, for example, health care institutions, housing corporations, municipalities and educational institutions. I'm not gonna give him a chance to make a caricature out of it. I'm not suggesting a new company or a public company. There are local accounting rooms. By strengthening those accounts, you could probably do the same. There are supervisors who ask out a lot of information and also have a financial control task. You could expand those tasks, too. I welcome the fact that the Minister has agreed to look at this, like other matters, in balance and with the advantages and disadvantages? But don't make it a caricature in advance, otherwise I'll know what the outcome of such a reconnaissance by the Ministry is. Then it will be completely ridiculed, and that is not something I would think of when it comes to controlling taxpayers' money and public funds. That's what we're gonna do to the public, and where that already exists, we're gonna strengthen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. I think that after the debate we should also be aware that we do not regulate and change everything with more laws and rules. This cultural change will have to come from the inside out of the accounting sector. He'll have to do a hell of a job as far as I'm concerned. I don't think making it more public is always gonna be better. There are plenty of examples of public doing something that shows that this is not the solution either. There remained some questions from my first term. What should the draft decision of the Supervisory Board say to the shareholders? Is that a single nomination, or are they two options with a reasoned preference for the audit committee with the nomination for a new auditor? I also asked a question about reporting serious cases. That's what the findings and the conclusions are. The report indicates that the shareholder can request information from the auditor himself. I've indicated that if you don't know, you can't ask. How can you fix that? And how does the Minister look at the possibility of legally enabling auditors to provide interim information on the audit if the company is experiencing difficulties in obtaining the annual accounts? I am curious to hear the Minister's answer to the PvdA's question on extending the limitation period. I am pleased that the Minister also thinks that the sector and the AFM should discuss the quality of control. It seems to me to be a good thing that there is no ambiguity about this and I assume that the sector is picking up that glove with the AFM. I come to my final point, namely the independent objection committee, or making it more independent. The Minister will return to that in the second term, but I will table a motion because it will not be possible to do so after that. After the Minister's answer, we will see what we can do about it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas on 31 January 2017, the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber on the legal protection of auditors and audit firms;]] [[noting the Authority for Financial Markets (AFM) and De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) only work with an independent chairman, without any substantive role in the appeal procedure for the suitability test;]] [[noting that other countries are more involved in the objection procedure in relation to independence;]] [[calls on the Government to make the objection procedure with the AFM and DNB more independent by involving more external parties in the procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34677-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u57	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions put by Members of Parliament, including myself. All in all, I have seen a Chamber which, sometimes with different starting points and perhaps also with different ideals as to how the audit role should be fulfilled, is at least united in sharing the Minister's great impatience to better regulate things. I think everyone agrees that not only can we do this with legislation, but that legislation is an important instrument. I will therefore advise my group to support the proposal before us, but the main task now lies in the translation of the legislation and, above all, in a cultural change in the sector itself. I've asked when the AFM will be able to do more careful research. I agree with the Minister that these should not be quickies and that this must be done very thoroughly. The quality should not be called into question. I'll wait for the letter. I understand the Minister in such a way that the aim is to do this as soon as possible, when you can really judge the year 2016-2017: do we see the cultural change, which is often said to have taken steps in recent years, also reflected in the results of the research? I am waiting for that letter, but I think it is clear that in the sector it is not a meter but a mileage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers in the first term. I was very pleased with what the Minister said about whether all the measures we have taken in recent years are at the heart of the matter and of the problem or whether we are stuck around it. He is going to instruct the Ministry itself to make a more fundamental analysis and to list the advantages and disadvantages. I believe that we will continue this debate again later, also in anticipation of the reports of the sector itself. With regard to tax avoidance, the Minister was equally concerned that I was trying to find a difference between the answer given yesterday by the Secretary of State, and I did not take part in that debate myself and the Minister's reply, but I understood that there was some uncertainty yesterday, including with the Secretary of State, as to whether this also applies to the accounting side. It is, of course, about offices that provide advice and control. I imagine that the Minister will not answer this question directly in the second term but will send another letter. He can therefore comment on whether this is an interesting idea at all. Finally, Mr President. In the first place, I proposed that we consider whether we could extend the instruments. I have put forward an idea to improve the culture within audit firms by offering the AFM an opportunity to speed up the rotation obligation in the case of checks that have been assessed as inappropriate or insufficient. I would find it interesting to have a legal reconnaissance on this, either from the Ministry or from the AFM or in cooperation. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas cultural change in accountancy, necessary for the confidence building of the public task of statutory audits, is only slowly taking shape;]] [[Whereas the AFM's investigation shows that more than half of the statutory audits examined still need to be qualified as insufficient;]] [[Whereas ensuring the quality of statutory audits in audit firms should be of the highest priority;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the AFM, to examine whether an effective measure may be imposed when establishing improper statutory audits that a subsequent audit by another partner should be carried out within the oob accountant's office or even another office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Snels, Mr Leijten and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34677-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u59	Mr. Chairman. 60% of the files examined did not meet and were insufficient. I have just looked it up, but in 2014 there were 22,000 statutory audits, of which about 56% were for the big four. So if you extrapolate this, 7,000 approving statements were issued in 2014 which we are not sure has happened lawfully. This should actually set off all the alarm bells, but the Minister is in it. He says: we do not know that, let us look to the future. I believe that these figures should be examined further, because if 7,000 declarations, 60% of them, have been issued unlawfully, we have a very different problem in the Netherlands. Then there's the pay model. The Minister says that there is a perverse incentive in it, so be it, and research is being done. I would like to hear from the Minister how he could take away that perverse incentive in the short term rather than doing investigations, because the earning model is not actually touched by those 56 measures. In the end, that's where the problem lies. I have a motion on the entry into force of this bill. I still find it incomprehensible that bad behavior is being rewarded and that we are not moving any faster. It's a step in the right direction. We all know that the proposal before us is actually nice, but far too soft. In any case, let us implement this bill quickly and also encourage the First Chamber to give a quick blow to this. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the entry into force of the amendment of the Supplementary Measures Act has been postponed by six months to 1 July 2018;]] [[Whereas the accountancy sector should take measures to address existing problems as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to leave the entry into force of this bill unchanged on 1 January 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34677-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. Actually, it's kind of like it was three years ago. Some progress has been made, but, in the end, the sector is being called a little guarded by politics. It's just not going well enough. All parties have shown this in different keys. The Minister has also indicated this. It is not for nothing that he says: I am going to look at how we can improve the earning model and quality, because the sector is not making enough progress. In particular, I would like to involve the tax sector and the advisory branch. I have prepared a motion with Mrs Leijten and Mr Snels to fill that in. There are two other points. Firstly, I asked a question about the ten-year limitation period. As far as I know, no answer has been given. I would like to ask the Minister to answer this: why was it chosen for six years, not ten years, which is common practice in the medical world? Secondly, together with Mr Snels and Mrs Leijten, I have tabled a motion for a resolution which seeks, if it has gone wrong with the control, to pass punishment as soon as possible and not to allow the same partner or the same office to continue to carry out the checks. I would also like to hear a response from the Minister. In any case, our opinion is well known. The signatures are under the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the quality of the audit reports is still too often inadequate;]] [[Whereas the sector has had more than three years to improve its work;]] [[whereas the monitoring committee set up by the industry itself in November 2016 stated that the fundamental problems are not sufficiently recognised and that solutions are not yet available;]] [[calls on the government to break this deadlock and to draw up proposals that fundamentally change the income model, including at least the separation of the accountancy from the tax and advisory sectors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34677-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u61	This motion also refers to Mrs Leijten's contribution: to what extent do you allow self-regulation and to what extent do you act as legislators? Because the sector is failing, we are getting closer and closer to a policy that has to take ever-greater measures because the quality is insufficient, because the fundamental problems are not sufficiently addressed and because this undermines the social base. I'd almost say "don't let it come to that," but it's getting close by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u62	This brings us to the end of the Court's second term contribution. I shall give the floor immediately to the Minister for his answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u63	Mr. Chairman. I feel like I don't have all the motions yet, but they might be coming while I'm talking. Mrs Leijten has once again expressed the inconvenience that she feels and that we all feel. She has rightly said that this also reflects on politics. This is certainly true when it comes to the use of public funds, but also in a general sense. Politics is also responsible for ensuring quality; that is why we are making legislation. It is true that with this legislation and all the measures we have taken so far in national legislation, I refer to the division of advice and control, the rotation period, European legislation, the measures of the sector itself and now that this bill is building many guarantees around it. That doesn't mean it won't have any effect. Otherwise, it could already be justified to say that it has to be fundamentally different and that we are going to set it up completely differently. I think we, as politicians, sometimes have to live with this inconvenience. 1. It does not give us the certainty that we are going to be okay. 2. We no longer know which measure has been effective and which measure of the whole palette has actually contributed and which has not. 3. In all honesty, I believe that this sector has shown a great deal of initiative. There are also sectors that I have had a lot to do with which this initiative has not been shown. Many initiatives have been taken. A lot is being talked about and much done in the sector. They deserve those credits, too. It remains that the end result is still not good enough. After consulting the AFM, I will send a letter on Mr Van Weyenberg's point about when the next study will come, whether it can be done more quickly and so on. So I'll come back to that. But this will really take time. Even if from now on all measures are implemented with great force, you will be a while further before you see that in the new dates of audit reports over completed years. It's no different. We must prepare ourselves for this if we are to draw a more definitive conclusion. Mrs Leijten said that the sector report will come in the autumn. I think it is inevitable that the Ministry will have to consider itself in its own right if results continue to fail. Have we done any work in 2019? What alternative or more far-reaching measures would the hot potatoes take? Indeed, a debate can then be held. That seems to me to be a very good approach, also to keep the political pressure on it. She also feared a caricature, or that I would ridicule the organisation of public control. I certainly do not, but I think she should also be open to and think about what this would mean, what profound consequences it has, and not just for the sector. It is the creation of new organisations; at least that is how I imagine it. I'm not saying that to ridicule it. There are far-reaching things imaginable. Local accountants really have a different character. You can't just tell a local accountant that she's gonna have to do the audit from now on; that's just not possible. So I'm not saying that to ridicule it, but it is because we have to think seriously about this. The same applies to sector supervisors. Indeed, you have various public regulators in the care sector, but they are absolutely not able to carry out the audit at all those thousands of healthcare institutions in the Netherlands. They should be able to rely on audits carried out by audit firms. They will come to their judgement on this basis. That is why this is so fundamental. Since today, Mr Van Dijk has also been joking about the fact that this really is a fundamental problem. Public authorities and public regulators should be able to rely on those audit reports. Shareholders, investors, municipalities, you name it: everyone trusts or should be able to rely on the quality of those audit reports. And at least at the moment there is considerable doubt about that. So we won't be ridiculing variants. We will seriously highlight both the advantages and the disadvantages. I promise Mrs Leijten. Mrs De Vries has repeated a number of specific questions that I had not been able to register so quickly in the first term. For example, she asked whether auditors should not have the possibility, i.e. by law, to make interim communications about an audit if a company encounters difficulties in obtaining the annual accounts. Then it drags on and the outside world and stakeholders want to know what's going on; that's what we're actually talking about. This is, of course, a matter of principle, because it undermines the principle that the auditor only discloses information on the basis of the audit report. After an entire audit has been completed, the auditor can say something useful about it, and then at the invitation of the shareholders' meeting. It is up to the company itself to disclose information, for example on price sensitive information, which should simply be shared with stakeholders. That is also legally regulated. But this is therefore a restriction, and it is a restriction on the confidentiality of auditors. There is another indirect way in which the accountant can put pressure on the case, by indicating or, if you like, threatening to put the audit order down. That is something that is visible, something that will shed light on the audit of the client, which apparently does not give serious cooperation to the auditor in order to complete the checks as soon as possible. So there is that possibility. I come to the sharing of supervisory findings with the shareholders' meeting. The draft law introduces an obligation for audit firms to share the AFM's main findings and conclusions with the audit committee of the audit client. In other words, the AFM has put its finger on a poor check and a not sufficiently substantiated statement. The bill stipulates that this should be shared with the audit committee of the customer within a specified period of time. The general meeting is, of course, always competent to dismiss the auditor or the auditor's organisation, together with the one who appointed the auditor. It is therefore reasonable, I think, that the Supervisory Board, which is part of the audit committee, should inform the general meeting of serious findings if it considers that the nature of the findings is so serious that they have an impact on the position of the auditor, or on the auditor responsible for auditing the annual accounts. I think this is the logical way to do it. If the AFM's findings have a real impact on the content of the financial statements and the oob is a listed company, there may even be an obligation to disclose the fact. That's just price sensitive information. The fact that the declaration no longer stands and that repair work is needed is information that shareholders need to know. Moreover, they have already been able to take note of it, as recovery measures have been imposed. I think there was another question from Mrs De Vries. Let's see which one I missed. Anything on the accountant's single speech? Can I answer that in writing? I don't have the answer ready right now, and then I'm gonna have to improvise. I have to make sure I get the question sharp. Then I'll answer it in writing. Then I come to the subject of Mr Snels, with which we conclude the first term. What happens when the accountant finds cases? Should he call it in? Is that settled in the new rules? Should we take care of that? The answer was given yesterday by the Secretary of State to the honourable Member, Mr Van der Lee, also from GroenLinks. The point of approach, as I said in the first term, is the tax advice that is being provided. That's not the auditor's role. External auditors are already obliged to report fraud of material interest to an audit client, which is not addressed in time and adequately by the audit client himself, to an investigative officer. That is therefore a legal duty of the external auditor when he finds real fraud, but, again, a construction is not always fraud. The European system therefore goes beyond that. But when it comes to finding fraud of material importance, the external auditor must act on it. I'll see if I've had it all. A further question has been asked about the limitation period. I can't find any clarity in this. There are very different limitation periods in different sectors of society, ranging from three years to ten years. Mr Nijboer referred to the healthcare sector, in which it is ten years. This also has to do with the weighting of the severity of the consequences of abuses or lack of medical treatment. We have now extended the limitation periods by abolishing the distinction between three years and six years. We said it's just six years. This has already been extended. I don't have a strong opinion on it. It really is the weighting of the Chamber how serious something is. On this scale, the most serious is the culpable failure in medical practice. That has weighed politics before, and for that there is a ten-year limitation period. We think that's very serious. It has very profound consequences for people. Sometimes it's about issues of life and death. On that scale, politics must weigh up. If we find anything falling into the same category, the limitation period is ten years. If there is a less far-reaching effect, then maybe we'll weigh it down to six years. The cabinet's verdict is six years. But once again, legislation varies from three to ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u64	It may play a role here that it can take quite a long time, especially in the case of financial fraud, before it is clear to everyone what has happened. We have seen this in financial scandals. That may be from the first moment, but that is usually laid early. Before all the shareholders, stakeholders or victims are behind it, the limitation period may have been considerably increased. That would be my consideration of extending that deadline in this case, not so much the seriousness, although this is also serious. In medical practice, you know if something went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u65	Your argument is certainly a weighting factor. How long after that can this surface in all reasonableness? At the same time, it is also from the accountant's position that the question is how long an error can be dragged after you, with the risk that you will still be legally challenged and held liable for a case of ten years ago. This will also have to be considered by the legislator. It is not every mistake, because even after 20 years that is still a mistake. I'm overreacting to make a point right now. You should also see if it is reasonable that an accountant who handled a case ten years ago can still be held liable ten years after that. That, too, is a trade-off. The cabinet's opinion is that six years is really a reasonable period. That is already an extension to the current situation, so that would be my advice to your Chamber. I didn't think there were any other cases left, so I'm going to the first motion, Mrs De Vries'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u66	Minister, I would like to inform you that, in my view, the amendment proposed by Mrs De Vries is still waiting for an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u67	Then I shall begin with the amendment, which was indeed put to the vote earlier and which I know at the time, but it is perhaps too painful for those concerned not to be adopted, although there may have been a majority in favour of it. There is a certain tension in that, a point that Mr Snels has raised, which I am not addressing again. He said that it should actually be so that if the AFM considers that an auditor's statement is not provided with sufficient underlying quality, in other words, perhaps wrongly granted, then another auditor would always have to do the following audit. Oh, not always?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Snels, for a clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u69	It's not about this always happening. If the AFM finds that an audit is not correct, there is a possibility that the measure may be imposed that a subsequent audit will then be carried out by another auditor. It's an extra instrument in the AFM's suitcase.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u70	I'm not for that anyway. I think mistakes should be possible. I would rather see that the same auditor restores his work immediately, as we provide for in this Act additional measures for audit firms, than that an additional rotation should be made. However, I think that many of the measures in the sector itself should be taken to ensure that internal quality assurance, including that of partners, is in order. The internal training of employees, people in training and partners must be in order. So the guarantees of quality control in the organization need to be improved. I find that much more valuable than linking it with a possible sanction instrument or compulsory rotation. So I don't find this idea so appealing. It should also be remembered that when the AFM comes up with a judgment, the 19 examples we mentioned earlier, are based on files from 2014 and 2015. The AFM then arrives at that judgment on the basis of that investigation in 2017. In 2018, the AFM could impose the rotation you are thinking of. In the meantime, there have been three audits, namely in 2015, 2016 and 2017. I don't think this is effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u71	There may also be other signals. In fact, I am simply concerned that the quality of audits is not yet good enough. This is one of the instruments you might think of. Why don't you explore that? We also have the right of disciplinary action and even the heavy measure that permits can be withdrawn. These are all very tough measures, but this is a measure that could help to change internal dynamics within audit firms, so that they focus more on quality and less on bringing in customers and carry out checks at the lowest possible cost. I'm particularly curious to see if that's interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u72	I really don't find this interesting. This falls into the category of which the monitoring committee has said: we are taking a lot of measures but we do not really see the link, there is no direct line with the fundamental problems in the sector. We have just agreed that the sector itself will address the fundamental issues. In parallel, we are going to think about how things could be different, with advantages and disadvantages. I do not think that this variant is effective at all, whereby years after that the accountant is taken off and is obliged to sit on the penalty bench for a year. It really doesn't touch the fundamental problem. We're already doing a lot of things and we've come up with all kinds of things, but when it comes to whether we're hitting the fundamental problem, this is more of a thing than a basic approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u73	In my opinion, this is one of the fundamental problems, namely that the earning model can also lead to looking away, not so closely controlling whether to choose loyalty to the client and not to the social interest. That's all things we talked about. The moment you know it's not good and you can lose the customer, you can also tell the customer. Perhaps that customer has a different interest than the social interest. There can be all kinds of things going on, these wicked problems, as it is called, that which the sector is about to look at. Then it wouldn't be so crazy to lose your client. This motion is not asking for it to be carried out, but to find out. So I don't understand why the Minister should be so opposed to this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u74	With things that are riskless, the question can always be asked why you are so opposed to them. We do a lot of things in legislation and the sector does everything, but the big question is whether this is at the heart of the matter. Then there will be a new proposal, a new idea. In the light of the debate we are having here on these fundamental issues, I think we should at least ask whether this affects the fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u75	Losing the customer!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u76	But it goes to a partner, as you yourself said. A fellow partner can just take over that client. What kind of incentive do you think you're gonna get with that? You know what I'm gonna do? I already have my views on this, but I don't think my officials have yet. We have already asked them to think about alternatives in parallel with the sector. I will ask them to look at this alternative as well. I would like to say to Mrs Leijten, in particular, who has made a very clear reference to the fundamental issues, that you really have to ask yourself whether we are throwing up an idea here or whether we are once having a fundamental issue about the organization and the conflicts of interest in the organisation. This is just a sanction, which I do not think is effective. I don't think anyone's impressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u77	I think it is right for the Minister to say that he is going to see if this can be included in the instruments. And whether or not that affects the fundamental core, we will certainly talk about that when the legal exploration is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u78	You have already interrupted this round, Mr Snels. You've started the rounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u79	It is not an interruption either, but a very brief remark. I would like to thank the Minister for his somewhat cautious commitment. I can inform you that I will hold the motion for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u80	At the request of Mr Snels, I propose his motion for a resolution (34677, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u81	I'm going back to the amendment. I just made the move from the amendment to the motion because the amendment actually says: you have to take an accountant off less easily. The AFM has the opportunity to carry out the statutory audit assignment, but Mrs De Vries says: that is so far-reaching in contract law between private parties, that it must be up to a judge. We can be brief about that. We have already responded to this in writing once, so the Chamber knows my point of view. I think I know that the amendment will be adopted. I have no objection in principle to that either, so I leave the opinion on the amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u82	I would like to take away the impression that it would no longer be possible at all. It's about the procedure: how do you get that accountant to resign, how do you dissolve that contract, and what safeguards do you want to put in it, so that the supervisor doesn't get all those hats when he already has so many? There will then be one more test, because it is quite a very heavy measure. So I really want to take away the impression that it is about not being possible anymore. It's still absolutely possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u83	If I said that, I said it wrong, because that is not the purpose of the amendment. It merely says that the final decision must be referred to the court. As I have said, I am aware of the history of this and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. I come to the first motion, tabled by Mrs De Vries, on item No. 10. In it, the government is asked to initiate the objection procedure at the AFM and DNB. We talked today about the AFM; DNB is now also being involved in more independent setting-up of the AFM by involving more externals in the procedure. The General Administrative Law Act allows members from outside the organisation to be appointed to an objection committee, also in a general sense. So the AFM can arrange that on its own. I do not believe that this need to be specified further in the law. If the motion is adopted, I think that is a serious signal for the AFM that the Chamber thinks it is desirable and the AFM can weigh it up again. If we can do it this way, we don't have to change laws and the AFM can seriously weigh the signal from the Chamber that it might be a reinforcement. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The second motion, in part No. 11 has been apprehended. The third motion, tabled by Mr Van Dijck, to item No. 12, calls on the Government to leave the entry into force of this bill unchanged for the time being on 1 January 2018. This is a rather unusual motion. I don't remember seeing a motion like this before. I'm not against that in itself, but I just don't think it's realistic. I think everyone would have preferred to have this law passed yesterday, but we have to be realistic. I know the First Chamber on this subject. This is really going to be a debate; this is not going to be a hammer piece. Also, underlying legislation is being developed and the AFM is still in the process of publishing policy rules. I really don't think it's feasible, so I'm sorry to have to discourage this motion. The fourth motion, in part No. 13, by Mr Nijboer, Mr Snels and Mr Leijten. This motion calls on the government to break the deadlock and to draw up proposals that fundamentally change the income model, including at least the separation of the accountancy from the tax and advisory sectors. Let me refer to the word 'proposals'. The drafting of proposals suggests that these proposals should simply be made, and I cannot undertake to do so. However, in parallel with the work of the sector, which is going to give serious thought to this, we will list some alternative income models, which have already been mentioned several times in Parliament's debates: what are the advantages and disadvantages of their operation, what are the incentives, what are the wrong incentives, what are the legal and European law aspects? We're all gonna figure that out. Whether this leads to proposals for fundamentally changing the earning model, I cannot now undertake. That will really be up to another government. I am not even ready to draw the conclusion that this must be done, but I do think that we should be able to have that debate properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u84	Whether you call it alternatives or proposals, the Minister has agreed in the first term to do so. What this motion sees on it is that the separation of the accountancy from the other branches is at least one of the things being analyzed. That is one of the proposals, as I call it. The Minister wants to mention alternatives and analyse their advantages and disadvantages. That's what the motion says. I think the Minister could embrace it if that was the explanation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u85	With this further direction, I will leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. It is, of course, up to a new cabinet to submit proposals to the Chamber. But we're gonna figure it out, including the variant that makes this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-06-tweedekamer-3.u86	The amendment tabled, the motions tabled and the legislative proposal will be voted on next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m.
