ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mrs Agema as the first speaker. Speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. For years, care has been adversely affected by a shortage of employees. For years, a majority of the House of Representatives has been looking the other way. Prior to the previous elections, the Central Planning Office thought that 55,000 people would be added to care in the last period, but 55,000 people were fired in the care of the elderly alone. 37 000 of the people who were fired were employees of care and nursing homes. So today's debate is no longer about the annual occupation problems in the summer, but about the devastating baldbeat, care for the elderly, of the previous cabinet. This bald blow has always been denied by this outgoing Secretary of State. Today I focus on the occupation in the nursing homes, because in the election time Chamberwide most promises have been made about more employees. There's a lot to improve in the nursing homes. The workload is skyrocketing, the residents are becoming more and more patients and education is lagging behind. Almost all quality indicators have deteriorated over the past period. Think of indicators such as drugging, lying wounds, falling incidents, malnutrition, a happiest medication, security and freedom-limiting measures. This deterioration can also lead to too few staff. Sometimes there are so few care workers that the urine runs along the ankles, or there is no time at all for showering, brushing or going outside. We shouted our throats hoarse, but VVD and Labour Party were deaf to the disaster that took place before our eyes. It wasn't so bad, they wanted us to believe. Don't talk so negative, they bit us. Then there was the manifesto-Borst, with the line-up standard that Mr Leijten has been advocating for a long time. At first I was still hesitant about such a standard, because in many cases an occupation of two employees on eight nursing home residents who need heavy care would be too low. However, transfers from ActiZ and the Central Planning Bureau in response to the manifesto were shocking. If you want to achieve a minimum occupancy of two employees out of eight residents during peak times, you need at least 2 billion extra, or 50,000 extra care workers. The motion we tabled on the occasion of the Borst manifesto was supported by Chambers and in election time the promises flew to our ears. That is why it is good that we are here so soon after the elections to honour this promise. We know that a minimum of 2 billion extra is needed, but this year's missionary cabinet adds only EUR 100 million to the macro budget for nursing homes. So hopefully, the election promises must be fulfilled now, before this year. No time to waste, otherwise the nursing home residents have turned out to be nothing more than campaign material.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen. There are three MPs today who make their maiden speech. I propose that we suspend Mrs Van Brenn for congratulations. I see that the grassroots have been called up and I do not want to hold them here until the end of the debate. After Mrs. Van Brenn, we'll suspend for congratulations. It's very fast, because a maiden speech shouldn't be interrupted. I call Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. "I worked as a volunteer in a nursing home in Amsterdam for four and a half years. It's wonderful to be so close to people in the final phase of life. I was offered an education here to work as a health care provider level two. I loved this. I was therefore very happy when I passed my exam and as a helping official could get to work. But what turned out? Then suddenly there was no place for me. I wasn't offered a job. Now I'm sitting at home, unemployed on the couch, when I'd really like to work in care." This is the story of Maria, 46 years old, from Amsterdam. Now that she no longer has a job, she has the opportunity to follow this debate in the gallery today. There's Maria. Maria is one of 77 000 caregivers who have lost their jobs in the past period. Good care means plenty of employees. We therefore find it sad that this Secretary of State did not want to see that. His calculator seemed more important than those 77.000 jobs, more important than loving attention to our elders. For that is precisely why those level 1 and level 2 employees are also very valuable. Thousands of healthcare workers are unemployed at home on the couch, caregivers who, like Maria, are dying to work in care; they are there, but they are not being used. I am talking about nursing homes, but the need for care is of course high in many more places. Care homes are closed down and people lose their jobs. The cuts in household care have led to many redundancies. In disability care, the workload is still high. In hospitals and in the neighborhood there is a chronic shortage of nurses. Here in this Chamber on 8 December 2016 the manifesto of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers was embraced. They called, among other things, for an occupation standard: two caregivers on up to eight nursing home residents. The SP has therefore reserved in its election programme the amount that the CPB had calculated what would be necessary to achieve this occupation standard, i.e. more than EUR 2 billion. But, of course, I have also looked at the other parties' electoral programmes on this issue. In the election campaign and the debates there were quite a few differences of opinion, but not really about care for the elderly. From left to right, we and, yes, even the VVD promised at some point no less than EUR 2 billion to improve care for the elderly. We all agreed: the problems in the care of the elderly and the nursing homes should really be solved now. The voter took care of the previous cabinet. Secretary of State Van Rijn has turned out to be a bit of a pain in the ass of care. With task forces and intervention teams the place had to be repaired and again and again asked for trust, but at some point the trust was simply gone. The Secretary of State has, in the opinion of the SP, had his chance. Now let him act according to what this Chamber wants. If you look closely at the election programmes, a very, very large majority invests in this Chamber at least EUR 300 million. Most of the parties with the SP in particular want to invest much more in good care for the elderly and nursing, but at least we agree on the 300 million. However, Maria, her colleagues and these elderly people cannot wait for the formation to be completed. Perhaps it will take months, and all those Marias who are now unemployed at home should be able to get back to work tomorrow and do what they are good at, namely care. Finally, is the Secretary of State prepared to allocate EUR 300 million directly to additional colleagues in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u5	Congratulations on your maiden speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. I have been asked to replace Mrs Bergkamp, and I am delighted to do so, because we are debating this issue with the new Chamber today and, of course, we have talked about it very often in the past. We share concerns about the shortage of care, both in terms of the number of nurses and in terms of the level of education. Over the past period this issue has not been a priority of the cabinet, despite the call from the Chamber and from Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers. In addition, last week, the Health Agenda appeared, in which sixteen organisations reiterated the importance of removing the shortage of qualified staff. The stakes of D66 are clear: more money must be provided for extra hands on the bed, not only in the nursing homes but also in the neighborhood and with children's nurses. This has also been clearly stated in recent months. In a motion we asked earlier for an action plan for nursing home care staff and asked for attention to be paid to the high workload and the opportunities for retraining, retraining and retraining. Now it is a difficult situation with a outgoing Secretary of State, but I would like to hear from him what the actual plans are still to deal with the shortage of nurses. That is why I want to know one more thing: who does what, when and how? I also ask the Secretary of State if he agrees with my group that the student stops for nursing education should be lifted. It is inexplicable that they exist if there is a shortage of nurses, including highly qualified nurses, on the labour market. So my question is whether we can remove these stops before the coming academic year. Due to the high pressure on the workplace there is a shortage of internships, because there is simply no room to train and guide new people. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that we need to get more internships? How does he intend to achieve this best and how can he remove the existing bottlenecks as soon as possible? Finally, on this subject, I would like to say a few words about side-invaders. They can play a major role in reducing deficits. Is it known how organisations themselves contribute to this, including as regards their current staff? These may not be side-influencers, but they are people who can contribute to solving the deficit with continuing training. Think of a nurse who can become a nurse through an education. We ask a lot of people in care. That is why the scope for continuing training is very important. I'd like to hear this from the Secretary of State. It is not just about staff shortages; investing in quality is also a must. That is why I would also like to hear the state of play of the Guidelines and the quality framework. What steps are being taken there? I'm closing up. For D66 it is important that we remove these bottlenecks as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u7	Thank you. I see that Mr Nijboer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mrs Dijkstra spoke finely at the end of her speech when she said that the problems had to be resolved as quickly as possible. I fully endorse that. I have heard previous speakers say that Hugo Borst's manifesto raises an acute problem, for which we should, in fact, reserve money already in spring. How's D66 on the other side?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u9	At the moment there is a discussion at the information table. As far as D66 is concerned, we're not going through that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u10	I am a financial spokesman and I am allowed to have this debate today. It is true that decisions on care for the elderly are taken during this period. If we wait for that, we will not improve care for the elderly next year. That would be serious, given the majority's statement in the Chamber that this must be dealt with quickly. Does D66 then allow the procedural reasons of the formation to prevail, while Chamberwide has been said to require at least 300 million? Mrs Marijnissen has just made this very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u11	That's what I'm gonna stand for. We, as D66, have also made our commitment clear. However, I do not think it is the time to say that we should settle this here in this debate. The urgency is known, also at the information table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u12	I agree with Mrs Dijkstra that it does not need to be dealt with today. But that has to be done with spring notes. Then we are talking about next year's budget. Otherwise, you're too late. The nursing homes won't be able to take the people anymore. They also need to put advertisements and people need to be hired. In view of the difficult political situation, how will D66 ensure that decisions are taken in good time? After all, that's next month.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u13	I can only repeat what I said earlier. These matters are currently on the information table. I am not going to anticipate that, but that urgency is known to everyone. It's on everyone's retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u14	I understand that Mrs Dijkstra does not want to anticipate what is on the formation table. That would make sense, were it not that D66 also embraced Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers' manifesto. She asked the Secretary of State about the state of play of the Guidelines. However, that manifesto of course did not so much plead for guidance, for guidance. No, that just argued for a tough staffing standard, namely two out of eight. We all know that this requires euros. So what does D66 have to do to make a decision on this now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u15	I can keep repeating myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u16	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u17	I congratulate Mrs Marijnissen on her maiden speech. It is good that we can have a little discussion now. The guide is not separate from the manifesto of Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers. Both things need to be taken care of. The quality is also very important. I have indicated before that the urgency is on everyone's retina. These subjects are on the information table. I am not going to anticipate that at the moment. But our commitment may be clear, that state.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u18	Do you have another question, Mrs Marijnissen? This question has been asked many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u19	Mrs Dijkstra says the stakes are in place. But is that the commitment to at least reserve 300 million extra in order to reach a staffing standard as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u20	D66 has earmarked EUR 400 million for continuing training, retraining and retraining for staff. That's D66's bet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u21	I call Mrs Hermans, who will make her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u22	Madam President. Seven days a week, 24 hours a day, thousands of people work with passion, dedication and expertise in elderly care and disability care. They provide good care and loving attention to the most vulnerable in our society. That deserves great respect and appreciation. I am here for the first time today, and I consider that a privilege. That is why I am using this moment to express respect and appreciation. Due to all the attention in the media and in this room for the things that are not going well, it sometimes seems as if in the care in the Netherlands it is only trouble and torment. Nothing could be further from the truth. Loving and good care is provided in many places in our country. I would like to emphasise this, because if we do not recognise this, how can we expect young people to choose a job in long-term care with conviction, that all those who work there will continue to do so and that people who are considering a transition to care will also make that transition? That is why we are here today. We must be able to expect that. We, society, need them, as well as their passion, dedication and expertise. The demand for care and therefore the demand for care staff will only increase in the coming years. In disability care we see that retraining and retraining of employees is starting to bear fruit, but we are not there yet. Leaning back is not an option. In the neighbourhood, in people's homes, district nurses and specialists in the care of the elderly ensure that people get the right care, but we are not there yet. The labour market issue in care for the elderly calls for a first-line approach, in the neighbourhood, in hospitals and in nursing homes. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore what is going on with the integrated labour market analysis he promised earlier. What is the situation with regard to the use of training vouchers in this sector? Has the number of applications increased, as expected? I'd like to take a separate look at the staff assignment that the nursing home care stands for. People's concerns and the complexity of the care they need are increasing. The space and freedom to make your own choices about your care and the way in which you complete your day are rightly playing a major role. The solution is not simply a question of more money. We need to work together to get the right people to work in the nursing homes. This requires a varied staff composition, with staff trained to provide the right care and with staff who ensure that you can continue to do as much as possible the things you like. It is a mix of higher and lower-educated staff, a mix of care and well-being. This calls for an extra investment in nursing care, but not just by throwing money over the fence. We have to make certain conditions. We also need to look at the regulatory burden. Together, this should ensure that residents and staff enjoy their lives and work. I grew up in the happy circumstance that I had and got the space to make my own choices and develop talents. I realize that's not self-evident to everyone, whether you're young or old. We have to work on that every day. I want to do that in my time as a Member of Parliament day in, day out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u23	Thank you for your maiden speech. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr. Chairman. Today I can replace my colleague Léonie Sazias. I'm afraid she's been prevented because of an operation. It's especially for me, because over the past few years I've been working for the employees in care and well-being. It is good to talk now about a topic close to the heart: staff shortages in care. Because why would you want to work in a sector where mass redundancies have taken place in recent years? Why would you want to work in a sector where draconian austerity has taken place? Why would you want to work in a sector that demands a lot of your private life and pays little? Why? Because it's wonderful work, which means a lot to the people who depend on it. One because in the care work people who have a heart for the people they care for, who stand up to make the day more beautiful for the people in their final stages of life, who make sure that their effort allows people to stay longer at home, who comfort and nurse people after surgery, who provide safety to young people that they do not have at home and those disabled people who have learned to understand hard-to-understand behavior. All these people deserve respect and support, especially colleagues. Over the last few months, in the VWS and beyond, it has often been about the situation in nursing homes, the shortage of staff and the manifesto of Borst and Gaemers, and rightly so. Chamberwide, the motion was embraced. It is absolutely necessary to invest in sufficient and well-trained staff at all levels of training. Many researches among employees show that there are simply colleagues too short. We know the stories that occur to this day: no time to quietly talk to a resident, and during night shifts care for 80 residents. Colleagues such as activity counselors and food assistants have been cut off. It can't be. People in care have a right to be able to do their job properly. Good care for vulnerable groups is a sign of civilisation. Appreciation of people who give this care every day with heart and soul should not only be material. For most, intangible remuneration is at least as important. Appreciation is also in enough colleagues, training opportunities and the feeling that your work matters, that it is well rewarded and that it is not ignored and broken down. But we also call for attention to be paid to the 45-plus unemployed people in the care sector. It is good that there is a career path for 5,000 unemployed 45+ people in care, but out of a total of 74,000 unemployed from care, it is a drop in the ocean, especially given that the number of applications for training vouchers is lagging behind in this group. The position of unemployed people over 45 in the labour market is already difficult and many of them are no longer getting a job either. That means they need to be targeted more. In this group there are really many people who want to continue in the care but need support. Let us combine these two major social problems: the large staff shortages in health care and the high unemployment among 45-plussers. It's a missed opportunity if we don't do something about it. This can be done if every unemployed 45-year-old at the UWV is actively pointed out to be able to work in the care sector and follow a pilot course. The need is high and the urgency for both problems is manifest. What does the government think of this plan? Is there any willingness to set up a pilot for this? Is the government prepared to put attention and money into this? After all, we need them so much. I like to get a reaction. The shortage of district nurses is still a major problem. Without additional efforts, a shortage of as many as 2,200 district nurses is likely to occur in 2019. Does the Secretary of State agree with 50PLUS that all events in care for the elderly have contributed to a negative picture of this sector, which remains a threatening problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u25	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u26	Yes. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he arrested the Krol/Bergkamp motion on this subject? I come to my final point. The staff shortage occurs in all branches of care. It occurs not only in the care of the elderly, but also in youth care, mental health care and disability care. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, there too, an occupation standard is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. Congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u28	I propose that we suspend for a moment to allow colleagues to congratulate Mrs Van Brenk, Mrs Hermans and Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u29	I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks. Mrs Ellemeet could actually make a maiden speech, but she said: well, I've been in the Chamber before, so that's fine. Welcome back, Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u30	I would like to start by briefly saying something about the three new colleagues, although I also feel very new here. This is a good use; Mr Van der Staaij, who spoke to me after my maiden speech, reminded me of it. I would like to congratulate Mrs Van Brenn, Mrs Hermans and Mrs Marijnissen on their fine speeches and contributions. I'll start with Lilian: I'm very happy to see you're so combative. I think we can really use that combatability in the care of the people. Thanks for that. I would also like to say to Mrs Hermans and Mrs Van Brenn: I like that you show your commitment, that there is a lot of empathy in your story and that there is also a lot of reason from your story. I think we can also use that combination very well on this beautiful subject, the care. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u31	And this does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u32	Oh, thank God! Mr. Chairman. I'm starting my own input now. Two and a half years ago I was here for the first time in a debate with this Secretary of State, also about problems in nursing care. Then I said that I also have a personal mission besides my party's mission: do not give in to the Hague reflex to allow incidents to lead the political debate. Especially in care, that reflex is lurking. Something always goes wrong in the care, because care is human work. I can still agree with this mission two and a half years later. There is a great responsibility on our shoulders as representatives of the people to find the right balance between tackling abuses and giving confidence in what is going well. To begin with, we have many reasons to be proud of all those people who work in care, who work for our elderly, our sick and those who need help. There are good examples left of care that meets the wishes of clients. That is something that we can express with conviction. In fact, we need these beautiful examples and stories, because there are a number of major challenges in the care sector. One of the biggest challenges is that of staff shortages. My first debate was about this and in the meantime this problem has not been reduced. The cuts in the care of the past few years are coming back like a boomerang. This cabinet has made the problems for the health labour market bigger rather than controlled. That's why it's all hands on deck now more than ever. More than 55% of the non-profit organisations indicate that the workload has increased again. This concerns me, especially when you consider that tens of thousands of additional care workers will be needed in the coming years. These are staff in nursing homes, but certainly also in the neighbourhood, for people at home, and for disabled people. With regard to GroenLinks, this urgent situation calls for a broad approach. First of all, it is time to bring the beauty and complexity of working in long-term care to the attention of students with passion. In the care field we already see beautiful initiatives from employees who are proud of their work. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether, and if so, how he intends to actively contribute to a positive imagery campaign for long-term care and how he intends to develop this together with other departments and with the field. In addition, I ask the Secretary of State if he believes with GroenLinks that the care courses are still inadequate and that students fall out because they are deterred by a first, far too heavy internship. In addition, there are also signs that the transition between training is rigid and poses problems. From my conversations with people from the field, I understand that for many institutions it is precisely because of the staff shortage that it is impossible to guide trainees properly. How does the Secretary of State intend to break this catch 22? Does the Secretary of State consider these problems to be a shared responsibility with the Minister of OCW? If so, how does he deal with these problems? Is the Secretary of State prepared to lift the numerus fixus for nurses? The current care workers need all the space they need to learn. Lifelong learning is urgently needed in healthcare, including when it comes to learning to use technology. How does the Secretary of State intend to promote the necessary development of incompany training and tailor-made training for current care staff? GroenLinks believes that there is also much to learn from existing initiatives, such as involving side-intromers as care workers. I also have good stories in Amsterdam about vg-clients in the daily use that do supportive and caring work in the care of the elderly. In addition, ZorgpleinNoord, in collaboration with employers, has developed initiatives for disability care, care for the elderly and care for the neighbourhood. Employees aged 45 and over with MBO level 2 or below can go to ZorgpleinNoord for free career orientation. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he intends to support and promote orthodox and unorthodox solutions to solve the major problem of the shortage in the health labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u33	I thought it was a good story from Mrs. Ellemeet. She emphasized the urgency of enough people at the bed, people who work in care. However, she left one case open and I would like to ask her why. The standard of Hugo Breast and Carin Gaemers has been widely discussed in the Chamber. How does GroenLinks feel about that? This needs to be arranged pretty quickly. Everyone knows that, and everyone who works in health care knows that. I didn't hear about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u34	If Mr Nijboer knows what we have been working on in the campaign and if he knows our election programme, then he knows GroenLinks as a party that fully stands for good care in nursing homes and beyond. This is a priority for us. We attach great importance to this and will therefore focus on good care and sufficient staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u35	I love that. Could we, as a Chamber, make a start on that today? That has already happened on this file in the past. The PvdA is very willing to do so. Is there any talk with GroenLinks about saying to the cabinet that there should be money for the spring note? Besides substantive considerations on how to get better care for the elderly, it just takes money. Is GroenLinks willing to do that to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u36	There must be no misunderstanding that we consider this to be very important. We think that staff should be there. This is not the time to anticipate and talk about the budgets. We are going for a good and firm commitment. That's what our party stands for. However, now is not the time to discuss this in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u37	It's about staff in health care. If there's a shortage somewhere, it's old-age care. Everyone in the Chamber agrees that things should be better there. This debate is about that and the Spring paper is coming up. We can now pass on to the outgoing cabinet what the Chamber wants. I would like to give Mrs Ellemeet some thought to her words today. When it comes to formulations, I would be happy to look at it together. I would like to invite GroenLinks to listen to those words from the campaign today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u38	I hope that my input has made it clear that this commitment still stands, whether it is campaign time or not. We're standing right here. I agree with what Mrs Dijkstra said earlier. This subject is on the information table. We're not meddling in that right now. We stand for our ambition. It's not getting any less. That's all I can say about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u39	I welcome your answers to Mr Nijboer's questions. I'm wondering. You're saying now isn't the time. I understand you're in conversation and there's a lot of pressure forming. At the same time, you make a glowing argument about improving the image of working in healthcare. Then you should know better than anyone that you can start any advertising and image campaign, but that there will not be a good image if we do not tackle the problem of large staff shortages. Why are you not prepared to say, when everyone actually agrees, that we are getting to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u40	We want to change the Netherlands, especially in the area of concern. That has been our commitment and that is still our commitment. That will also be our commitment at the formation table. That is one of our main priorities. Trust me on that. This is our priority. We're gonna go for that. We want to make a very strong commitment to this. That is my response to your question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u41	If all the forming parties at the moment say "this is at the top of our list and don't worry, because we want to do that," can we just say that we are going to do it today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u42	That's not how it works. We are in a debate here, as spokesperson's concern. I have just expressed the ambition of GroenLinks. We want to deal with the staff cut. This is very high on our priority list. I can give you that now. Furthermore, it is inappropriate to interfere here now in the conversations at the formation table. So our ambition stands. We want to go for it. That's what I just argued in my speech. We must do something about this, and we will certainly bring it to the tables where this is mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u43	Mr. Chairman. Staff shortages in care, that's a broad topic. Unfortunately, I have to limit my speaking time. So I want to talk about nursing care and community nursing. In the meantime, the occupation standard applies in the nursing home care sector. The Secretary of State said earlier that it would be enforced immediately, but is it being maintained exactly? If you read the guide, you will get no further than to agree that there is a standard. The first question to the Secretary of State is what and how is being maintained. What has changed in the nursing homes now that the occupation standard applies? In recent years, tens of thousands of helpers and caregivers have been fired from care for the elderly and from home care. It's a well-known fact. Does the Secretary of State now have a plan of action to get these people back into health care? They have the knowledge and experience to fill the gaps that are now falling. What is he going to do to get these people to work at least this summer, for example, so that there is sufficient staff for the residents of the nursing homes and the self-living vulnerable elderly? That was the first reason for this debate. Of course, this is also about money. Financial space can be created by deleting rules. The government feels the same way. That's one of the conclusions of the pilot's low-level concern. However, I am actually curious about what happened to the Keijzer motion of 10 November 2016 in which the Chamber asked the Secretary of State to finally delete the rules put forward by the field. I'm assuming he's gonna say that happened later. Well, of course you're not here yet. The CDA also has this in its election programme and in the credit transfers. We believe that this should be on the formation table. However, we also need to keep in mind the care purchase for 2018. For example, the provisional framework letter Wlz, which sees the light halfway through or at the end of July, is a moment for this. Then we'll take care of the neighborhood. We're short thousands of district nurses, and I don't see any action from the government. Since most elderly people with a need for care live at home, in their own home, this is of the utmost importance. Large holes also fall in intensive child care. We know that there is a serious shortage of skilled specialist district nurses who can provide care at home for severely disabled children. How's that going? There are hundreds of vacancies already open. At least ActiZ let us know. Does the Secretary of State recognise this and, if so, should there not be many more people trained? When I look at the relevant training courses, I see 'numerus fixus'. Is this true? Is there a limitation in the amount of training places for new district nurses and, if so, what does the Secretary of State do about it? This is not the only problem. You also hear that people in training can't find internships. For example, the training of new people in health care is of course stagnating. I heard Mrs Ellemeet ask if the numerus fixus can be lifted. I think that's a good question, so I support it. Finally. During the National Health Debate, which was broadcast on television at the end of January, Amy N'daw and Rob Gielen, two young people working in care for the elderly, told us that the work in care for the elderly is wonderful. They said that the amount of love they get back is indescribable. I was watching that debate and I was already thinking about the question I am about to ask. Shouldn't the Secretary of State and ActiZ look at how they can use these kinds of people as inspirational examples to make more people receptive to this wonderful profession?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u44	I hear Mrs Keijzer asking the Secretary of State to make every effort to get the already dismissed people with level 1 or level 2 to work quickly. She mentioned the term "this summer." May I ask how Mrs Keijzer intends to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u45	I'm not the Secretary of State, because he's over there in "K." That's why I asked him my question. Thousands of people have been fired; we all know that. It's about the helpers and the caretakers. Now we find together that there is a general shortage of people working in health care, but there is certainly a large shortage in the summer. That was the reason for Mrs Agema to request this debate in September last year. In the summer people go on holiday, which means even more holes fall. I think there's almost one plus one is two. That's why I'm asking the Secretary of State if he's got a plan of action he's looking into how to get these people interested in taking care of the people who stay in the nursing homes for a while. After all, these are temporary jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u46	Today is March 29th. If we want these forces, which are indeed badly needed, to be able to get back to work next summer, it is important, according to the SP, to take a decision on this today. Does Mrs Keijzer agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u47	The question is, what decision do you make? What, for example, needs to be done? For example, the Secretary of State must consult ActiZ to see how to approach all these people. I'm just trying to figure something out, but I'm sitting here doing the Secretary of State's work. I don't think it's wise for me to do that. How can you ask these people: gosh, are you interested in temporary work in the summer months in the nursing homes, because there are huge labour shortages there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u48	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u49	Finally, Mr President. If we want these people to be able to work in the nursing homes in a month or two or three, we must of course also ensure that there is money to hire them. I think Mrs Keijzer understands that, too. Does the Commission believe that it would be wise to take such a decision with the SP? That would be wise if she also felt that these people should be able to get to work this summer, something which, of course, I fully agree with the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u50	In itself, I agree with Mrs Marijnissen; of course. But the question is also whether this requires a decision from us. This requires a decision by the relevant health care institutions. They must decide to hire additional people in the summer months. Mrs Marijnissen also knows that this is also in the budget room. There is room for people to be replaced during sickness and vacation. However, you cannot open a look with educated people. That's what this is all about now. There are helpers and caregivers at home now. They have that training. As I said, this is almost the case: one plus one is two. That is why I put my question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u51	I would like to ask Mrs Keijzer the same question I asked the spokesman of D66 and GroenLinks. To what extent is Mrs Keijzer prepared to take a decision on behalf of the Chamber soon to secure that extra money for care and nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u52	I don't think the spring note's ahead now. That's what I heard after the interruption with my two colleagues. If the Spring Paper is in place, the debate could be held on this issue. But Mr Nijboer is the Finance spokesman. He knows, of course, that there are other appropriate moments when money is to be made available for 2018. As no other, of course, Mr Nijboer knows that, if that were a decision, that question would be directly on the formation table. That's what I'm doing here, and that's what I just said. The need is there; something must be done before 2018. For the health spokesmen, for example, the discussion of the provisional framework letter Wlz is one of the moments ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u53	I am no longer surprised at this answer, because it seems to be a bit attuned to the negotiating parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u54	I think there was a variation in my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u55	There's a reason. I am asking this as the Finance spokesman. A outgoing cabinet can no longer make far-reaching proposals for extra money for care, because there is no majority left for the cabinet of the coalition parties. So the Chamber has to do that. This debate is about employment in health care. In this debate, we can ask the Cabinet in a majority to make a proposal, despite its missionary status. The PvdA is willing to do so. Why doesn't the CDA want that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u56	I'm a little surprised that the PvdA is willing to do that, but that's how things are going, I guess. Mr Nijboer knows as well as I do that this issue can be dealt with when dealing with the Spring Note. That is where this debate needs to take place. If the Chamber decides to do so, it will be on the same formation table. That is what I said in my speech. You can take a few moments for that. We are all convinced that something must be done. That is why the Court of Justice took that decision in December of last year, which was not so long ago, in other words, it was Chamberwide, with all the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u57	It is your turn now, Mr Nijboer. You're speaking on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Hermans and Mrs Van Brenk on their maiden speeches. Sorry, Mrs. Van Brenk, I just needed to find where you're sitting to look at you. I'm not quite used to it yet, but you're almost in my old place. For me this is also a bit of a maiden speech as spokesman for Finance in the Committee on Health, Welfare and Sport, but it is a pleasure for me. I would like to say three things: firstly, the immense amount of staff needed in care in the coming years; secondly, the conditions of employment; and thirdly, my interruptions have already raised the question of what is needed in care for the elderly. It is expected that 145,000 extra people will be needed in healthcare in the next four years alone. That's a huge number. For that we need training and students who want to work in care again. We need a bigger plan than just letting it go a little bit. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he's prepared to draw up such a plan. We're all getting older. That's good, but we also enjoy more care and more people are needed for that. The second thing that is needed for this is good working conditions. There have been many debates on working conditions in home care. They've improved a little bit. We would like to add to that, as stated in our electoral programme, but we are not in a position to do so now. We believe that health care needs to be better paid across the board. Let me be more precise: almost all of it, because for the medical specialists it can be a lot less. You actually see the same thing happening in the big business: the top deserves very well, but the people who do the ordinary work are a bit disadvantaged. That needs to be balanced. I now come to the third point. My interruptions were about that, too. I am not saying this simply because, even when we were full of coalition parties, we supported the majority in the Chamber last autumn in order to improve the quality of care for the elderly in nursing homes. But that has to be done now. I don't hear D66, GroenLinks, I didn't hear the VVD, but I'm sure she'll find the same thing, because it was a maiden speech and the CDA say it's on the formation table. This shows a great deal of confidence in the fact that you are quickly out with all of us. If I have listened to it a little well the past week, I heard that there are still very big differences. I heard "we're a long way from getting out" and "we just have to see it." If you take care of the elderly seriously, and if you stand for what you said in the elections, it is necessary to make the decision in the Spring Paper to increase the amount of money for this. This cannot be done otherwise, because people cannot be hired in time and nursing homes do not know where they stand. That decision can be taken now or in the spring note, but the cabinet can no longer do so, because it is outgoing. So the Chamber will have to do this Chamber-wide. I would once again call on colleagues to do this together. I would like to look with you at the wordings and the difficulties. I've been a financial spokesman myself. It's all gonna be very precise, but this is the moment when it's possible. The PvdA is willing to do so. It's not a controversial thing, and we all agree. Even the VVD promised an extra 2 billion. That's gotta be doable, right? So let's all try it. About care for the elderly and Hugo Borst's manifesto has always been said: we take this seriously and we are going to work on it. Steps have already been taken by the Chamber. Then let's take the next step today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u59	The story of Mr Nijboer is taken from my heart from A to Z.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u60	At your service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u61	But at the same time, I'm also completely bewildered. Isn't it the Labour Party that has completely broken down the care of the elderly from A to Z, including from A to Z, in recent years? The CPB planned another 55,000 jobs. It was 55,000 less. 37,000 people were fired from the nursing homes. Mrs Volp, your predecessor, had to threaten to step down to sign that motion on the Chest manifesto. Why didn't the Labour Party ring the bell earlier and tell this story a few years earlier? Then all that drama didn't have to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u62	We've told you this before. In fact, a year and a half ago, half a billion would be cut back on nursing homes. It was quite a struggle, which I was personally involved in, to get it off the table, but it worked. Last year an additional 100 million was allocated to health care, and we are moving forward now. So you'll hear from us the same story. It is different now, given the economic situation we are now in. It is not by itself that Dutch public finances, the economy and employment are growing again. This required difficult measures, including in the care sector. I'm not running away from that. They hurt. I'm not running away from that either. But they were needed to be able to invest again now, including in health care, but also in education and other matters. We want to do the same now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u63	Oh, so to the question of whether or not there are enough hands on the bed, the answer of the Labour Party is whether our country is doing better economically or less well. So if things get worse economically, we've fired 37,000, and if things get better economically, the Labour Party is gonna call for extra people. That's impossible, isn't it? It's a demographic story, isn't it? Aren't there more and more elderly people knocking at the door of nursing homes and getting sicker and sicker? It's not an economic math, is it? Why haven't you done this before? Why now that the calf has drowned? Why now, when they're understaffed? Why now, when 37 000 people have been laid off by the Labour Party in the nursing homes and nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u64	The care must always be good, of course. The question is when there is room for additional investment. If we had followed the policy of the PVV in so far as there is a policy, with eleven points on an A4't and the borders had closed, then everyone in Rotterdam and at Schiphol, who exports, would have lost his job. That you can then keep the collective provision for our education and our care at a decent level, that story you may keep, but no one believes in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u65	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u66	At least in England, I think we're doing a lot better. For the Labour Party, therefore, high-age people are campaign material. Now that things are improving economically, the Labour Party can promise a lot, but the Labour Party has first broken down everything and defended it here all these years. I hope that the Labour Party will not change with every wind blowing here. If we had closed the borders, those 37,000 people wouldn't have to be fired. If we lost less money to the European Union, there would be more money in our own country. The Netherlands must choose. It's a welfare state or an immigration country. I hope that someday the Labour Party will make that choice, because in the next crisis it will not have to put the nursing home inhabitants back in the trash again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u67	I was prepared for a sharp debate in the care committee. The committee is also known for that. It's not just calling in politics, it's trying to get a majority from time to time. I'm looking for an opportunity to realize a few hundred million extra for the care of the elderly to improve it. Mrs. Agema agrees with me. Then I hope that there is something about that in the input. You don't have to. I mean, that's a style, too, but I'm trying to fix that here today. You can see that. I have made the appeal to colleagues, I have interrupted and I will try to do some things later on during the suspension. I do taste some support, but the tone used is still a bit in the PVV-style.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u68	A small point, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u69	Thank you for giving me the floor, Mr President. After that, I won't interrupt anymore. Good. I hope, therefore, that Mr Nijboer wishes to break the cordon on the PVV and table a motion with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u70	There's no mention of a cordon sanitair.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u71	Mr Nijboer made the point that the concern must be good. He also suggested that care is fantastic. I believe that last weekend at Nieuwsuur we saw that, for example, disability care leaves a great deal to be desired. Or take the discussion about nursing home care. There seems to be a standard for nursing home care, but it has not yet been introduced everywhere. I would like a confirmation from Mr Nijboer that he feels that there are still some concerns about care at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yeah, I'll find both. On the one hand, I am proud of Dutch health care. Everyone, regardless of income or origin, can get good care, in the hospital, with doctors, with general practitioners who do a great job, with people who work in care, in home care. Good and beautiful care is provided in the Netherlands. At the same time, there are problems, in the ggz and elsewhere. You're right about that. Like everywhere else, things can and should be better. But in general, the PvdA is proud of the people who work in healthcare, who sometimes do their job under very difficult, bureaucratic conditions. We have to do something about that, but that is not what we are talking about today. Of course things have to be better, I agree with Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u73	I'm glad you said that. Indeed, there are fantastic people working in care, with great commitment. I would also like to make a comment on the affordability of care. Actually, I was hoping to hear it from the PvdA. For many people, that own risk is quite a point. You say: care is affordable and easily accessible. There are people who don't care, just because of this point. There are also people who do not dare to go to the doctor, because they are then prescribed medicines for which extra money has to be paid. So I think there's still a lot to do in the care sector. I hope that Mr Nijboer agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u74	Oh, yeah. We are in favour of abolishing one's own risk, but unfortunately we are not sitting at the formation table, and this is really something for the formation table. We are no longer in a position to do so. Unfortunately, we are not allowed to do so. I was talking in this debate about care for the elderly. That can now be settled in the spring note. If we wait with that, we'll abandon care for the elderly. It is really up to the Chamber, which cannot be left to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u75	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u76	Madam President. For the first time, another major care debate after the elections. In addition to the familiar voice of the ladies Agema, Keijzer and Dijkstra, it is nice to hear some new voices in this Chamber. A nice mix of continuity and refreshment, I'd say. I would like to join with the compliments that have already been expressed on Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Hermans and Mrs Van Brenn. I thought Mrs Ellemeet said it very nicely: involved, reasonable and combatable. That also sounded in all the maiden speeches. Mr. Nijboer also had some kind of maiden speech as care spokesperson. I would like to congratulate him on the rapid change in government mode in opposition mode. That's good. Of course, he also includes his experience as a financial spokesman in this debate. It was widely said that it is incredibly important that we have enough people and also good people in care. This is in the interests of the people who depend on that care, but also of the job satisfaction of the people who work in the care sector. If you are dealing with a high workload and there are colleagues again, there will be even more work to be done on the shoulders of those who are already working in the care sector. So it's an incredibly important subject. How can we deal with this shortage of staff in healthcare? There are already a lot of open vacancies and the number of older people dependent on care is increasing. In short, there is a lot of work to be done. Firstly, I would like to join the questions that have been asked about the numerus fixus for a number of nursing courses. It's really weird, given the fact that so many extra people are needed. Can't that numerus fixus get off the table? When I asked about this recently, I heard back: yes, indeed, it's the internships. You should also be able to provide guidance to those interns. If that is the underlying problem, is there no solution to reduce the shortage of traineeships already in the short term? I would like to ask the Secretary of State: how much extra money is needed for this? Or are there other solutions to provide more guidance and thereby create more placements? A second point concerns continuing training and the flow of existing staff. What can be done to give more caregivers the opportunity to retrain to a higher level of expertise? What can the Secretary of State do to ensure that this happens? A third point is the retention of existing staff. Of course, it is also crucial that work in care is made attractive again. This can be achieved by reducing the workload, but also by reducing the administrative burden. It is precisely this huge red tape that reduces the working pleasure in healthcare. Not only do you hear this in contacts with people from care; you also read it in all kinds of reports. For this reason, too, I would like to ask the Secretary of State what opportunities he sees for further action in the short term. During the debate on the administrative burden last September, I received an undertaking from the Secretary of State that he would come forward with a scrap law. I haven't seen a bill yet. When can we expect that bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u77	This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u78	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate and congratulate Mr Marijnissen, Mr Hermans and Mr Van Brenk on their maiden speech and also a little bit of Mrs Ellemeet on her half-maiden speech. I express the hope and a little bit of the expectation that we will work together in the time I have been given. Moreover, I wish them all good luck, pleasure and perhaps a little pleasure in fulfilling the beautiful office they have accepted. The fact that they have chosen or that fate has determined for them that they take care of the portfolio will always bring with them a certain amount of tension and sensation in the coming period. I would just like to point out that the last plenary debate before the elections and also the first plenary debate after the elections were a matter of concern. That's what it says. I have some experience in this file now. Perhaps I should also express a kind of wish for the coming period, at least the period I am going to see. I do not think we should diminish the complexity of the dossiers that we have discussed and discussed with each other and which have also been dealt with by the Chamber. I am also very aware of the fact that the combination of reform and sustainability of care is, of course, a very uncomfortable and difficult combination. I am pleased to note that although there are differences of emphasis in the electoral programmes, despite the very intense debates we have had in this Chamber, very few parties have a different view on the reforms that have been carried out and that at least those reforms are not reversed. That is, in any case, an observation. Mrs. Marijnissen compared me to a pilot. I have indeed chosen to be a pilot in difficult weather. Yeah, you can also choose to be mate or mate out of the way. Both choices are acceptable, but I stand for the choice I have made on that point. There's been a lot going on. Long-term care is not completely broken down, as some say. I suggest everyone just look at the numbers. The budgets are now more or less in line with the development of economic growth, including demographics. This means that we can facilitate demography and economic growth, but it also means something quite different. It is not just about stories about austerity or reform; this also means that the affordability of care is getting a little better, also for people with a small, narrow scholarship. Every year, everyone pays an incredible amount to care. Of course, all these measures are also aimed at achieving a different quality, bringing care closer to the people and ensuring that we make care better at home, but they are also aimed at keeping care for ordinary people affordable. That is incredibly important, because people are already paying for their health. With all our efforts, we seem to be able to make room for new investments in the coming period and to consider the problem that was already on our agenda but of which we are now even more aware, namely how to ensure that there is sufficient staff to do this fine extra work in the care sector. It seems that extra money will be available in the coming period. Sometimes I have to make an effort not to look at the formation table with any jealousy. It's not the same discussion as it was four years ago. I congratulate the formation parties on that. I hope that will soon lead to results. As is well known, earlier in the Chamber the question was raised as to what the discussion about nursing care and the quality discussion mean. At that time, I promised to send an initial impact analysis of the new quality framework to the Chamber as soon as possible. I'm assuming I can do that by the end of the week or early next week. Maybe this will help with the formation table. This Secretary of State can in any case provide some services to the formation parties. In addition, there is another general point, which relates to the discussion on the labour market and the image. I have visited a lot of nursing homes, community care and home care in the last few years. Of course there was a lot of discussion and there are many concerns, but there was a heart cry of almost every nursing, caring and helping: can you make sure that there is not only negative talk about care and long-term care? That's so important and it was a unisono story. I believe that, as a policy, we have a particular responsibility in this regard. Yes, we are in favour of discussing things that are not going well. We are in favour of putting things that need improvement on the agenda. We must express our appreciation not only for all those workers and workers in the care sector, but also, above all, for our debates and our attitude. We too can contribute to a better image of the sector that deserves this so much, because every day we work with so much passion, sometimes just for a smile. I think we should be very aware of the fact that this is a particular responsibility, not to pretend that there are no problems or not to raise them. If we are talking about a better image of care, we must ensure that this image is improved in words and deeds, at a time when there are major deficits, especially in long-term care. A number of Members have already said that the labour market situation is changing rapidly. It's already changed, but it's getting more visible now. The number of hard-to-fill vacancies is increasing, the influx into the WW is declining and employment is expected to increase again in 2017. It is indeed already difficult to fill vacancies both for specialized nurses in the acute care and nursing care and for the district nurse care. If the current trend continues, we are expected to talk about a deficit of 20,000 people by 2020. These analyses of the labour market and the different scenarios underlying them need to be very detailed. I will send the new report of the Labour Market Care and Welfare research programme to the Chamber in the short term. It includes a comprehensive analysis of the labour market now and in the coming period. It is important that we pay attention not only to the quantitative task, but also to the qualitative task, because care is changing enormously. I am thinking not only of the combinations of care and well-being that are now becoming more important, but also of the development of e-health and technology. A number of honourable Members have spoken on this subject. The organization of the profession changes. The integration of the profession changes. Care and well-being will work together more and the context in which care is to be provided will change. I am thinking only of the cooperation with family, relatives and residents who make very different demands. Much has been done, I will touch it very briefly, but we still have a whole agenda ahead of us. We need to think about how we can improve the influx into the box. We must also consider how we can improve retraining, retraining and retraining. We need to think further about how we organise the work differently. I already talked about the combination of the functions care and well-being. Mr Nijboer rightly said that we should also look at working conditions. What should happen, looking through your eye hairs, in the coming period? There's gotta be a lot more permanent staff. There's got to be less flex. There could be more elderly people working in health care. We can also help more side-instromers to work in health care again. All these points have been put into practice in the past period. Sometimes there is a sector-oriented approach. I have already sent the Plan of Approach Quality Nurses to the Chamber at the request of D66. Sometimes there is a regional approach, in which the link between education and the labour market needs to be shaped in a very different way. There must be much more contact between training institutions and healthcare providers. Sometimes there is also a transcendent agenda. Social partners are now working together under the leadership of SER crown member and Professor Romke van der Veen to set up a very concrete agenda for action for all parties for the future, aimed at: who does what when? That is a bit of the question Mrs Dijkstra asked. It deals with the full range of care, inpatient care and care, home care, neighbourhood care, primary care and acute care in hospitals. It is, of course, always a bit difficult to see what you can do as a outgoing cabinet, but given the Court's request to get an integrated picture, not only in terms of analysis but also in terms of how we stand in the various sectors, I would like to say that very soon a letter on labour market developments was what it was like and what we can expect to expect to be sent to the Chamber. Then all parties can make use of it. I will make a few brief comments on the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u79	I have a question for the Secretary of State. I understand that he still supports the policy he has designed over the past period. As he knows, my past is with the union. I was invited there a lot to talk about firing rounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u80	I've met you there before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u81	That's right. I was often invited to discharge rounds for level 1 and level 2 staff. These staff had to leave the nursing home, including through the policy of this cabinet. I just heard you say that it is not just about quantity and quality. Are you saying that you still have the same analysis, namely that there is actually no room in the nursing home for level 1 and level 2 staff? Those people have been laid off in the past few years, of course, and masse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u82	I've never had that analysis. As you know, I have raised the issue of the quality of the future in nursing homes rather thoroughly. It's two-fold. On the one hand, we have to bear in mind that we are faced with a more complex question of care, because people come to a nursing home at a much later age. This creates a different and more complex question of care. This requires a level of education that allows you to know how to handle this, using other disciplines. On the other hand, the quality of life is at least as important. Activity guidance and day-to-day spending may therefore play an even more important role. These require a different kind of training. The experience of level 1 and level 2 people can be used for this. In recent years you have seen that the composition of the staff has changed, although this was more the case in the nursing homes than in the nursing homes. I think that in the future staff should be a mix of more knowledge, skills and competence in the field of heavy care on the one hand, and on the other hand much more attention to meaning, daily spending and activities on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u83	I understand. Then how do you look at the short-term problem? Mrs Keijzer was just talking about the coming summer. The summer period is always a period of trouble. Level 1 and level 2 people, as I just said, are fired and masse. I was invited as a trade unionist myself. One of them's sitting here in the bleachers. It will be available tomorrow for work if she is offered a job at level 2. However, there are no such jobs at the moment. Do you agree that this piece of well-being, time to take a walk, time to read the newspaper or help with food, something a nutrition assistant does with level 1, is basic in a nursing home? Shouldn't we just take everything out of the closet to get those people with levels 1 or 2 back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u84	I actually agree with Mrs Marijnissen. That is also one of the reasons why I said in relation to the 100 million I made available last year for this year: let us start where the need is greatest, so that, among other things, the acute human resources issues can be solved. This is a missionary cabinet. This means that, for our part, we are not supposed to take any initiatives. I understand from the formation parties that they all do and that this formation is going very quickly, so that perhaps all kinds of decisions can still be taken in the spring paper. I haven't quite heard that, by the way. So I'm a little reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u85	Then you know more than we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u86	So I'm a little reluctant. I do not know exactly what the timetable of these formation parties is. I'll see a few things. First of all, it is considered very important. Secondly, everyone has that in their election programme. Thirdly, what is the point of waiting for decision-making to take place on that point? I await with excitement and also a little bit of anticipation what will happen in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u87	I wonder why the Secretary of State is actually reluctant to wait. He's still at his post. 37,000 people have just been released from the institutions. There is a surplus of EUR 3 billion. He knows there's 100 million short. He knows that both ActiZ and the Central Planning Office have calculated that at least EUR 2 billion is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u88	I'm sending the impact analysis from the Healthcare Authority to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u89	Then why doesn't the Secretary of State put his fist on the table and just say to Minister Dijsselbloem: here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u90	Because in a missionary period, the cabinet is outgoing, but the Chamber isn't. The Chamber was elected by 81% of the votes cast. So we have a missionary chamber and a missionary cabinet. Then some modesty fits. If the Chamber wants anything else, it has to give a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u91	Then why doesn't the Secretary of State turn passionately towards the Chamber? Why doesn't he look around the room? Take care of this, Room! Take care of the two billion! There's a budget surplus of 3 billion, deal with this, Room, do this! This is not a place for modesty, it's a place for passion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u92	Sometimes passion is accompanied by modesty. You may not believe that, but you do. In fact, that's what makes it more exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u93	Well, tell me what we have here!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u94	You have, I think, heard me speak passionately about the entire journey we have taken in relation to the nursing homes. We cut the original 500 million cut. An additional 200 million has been allocated to day-to-day and training activities, with the permission of the staff and the works council. 100 million have been earmarked to start ahead of the quality framework. That quality framework has come about. Then I asked the Healthcare Authority to calculate what it was going to cost. If that's not a passion, I don't remember. The modesty is that it is indeed now up to the Chamber and the forming parties to see what they are doing with it. My heart is beating with anticipation. It always is when you're passionate. In general, I have been able to express my text on nursing homes. As I said, there are two different developments that do come together. On the one hand, there are more complex care issues, sometimes requiring a different competence of staff, and on the other hand, there are welfare issues where life experience and an arm around the shoulders of the inhabitant do much more than just ensure that basic care is in order. That discussion is also exactly in the quality framework. Mrs Keijzer asked about enforcement. It starts from now on. The quality framework indicates exactly that mix. So not only look at the basic safety that needs to be in order, such as medication safety and hygiene, but also look at quality of life and check whether staffing is constantly aligned with the group you have, which is different for dementias than for a group with korsakov or huntington. It is also a question of checking whether the leader of the home moves on the work floor and knows the people. In that quality framework, the staff side is a very important point. In addition, there are many other points that the inspection can discuss with the organisations from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u95	If you're reading the guide, there's got to be a conversation with the staff, where eventually, what's the norm there is. It is then up to the board of the institution to ensure that this takes place in practice. We can't run anymore. That's already true. That's what the Secretary of State said. I am curious about the way things are going in practice. Fortunately, the inspection also makes unannounced visits today. She comes in, knows that the conversation has been held and that the norm is two out of eight. If she finds that that standard is not being met, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u96	Then it is usually considered whether the quality is in order. Then it will be examined whether the setting is working on making the quality visible. That's important, too. Finally, it looks at how quality standards are being worked out. There's also a financial component to it. That is precisely why I asked the Healthcare Authority to consider what the quality framework means in terms of finance. She has now done an initial impact analysis on this. It looks even further at the cost method, but that is of somewhat later concern. That story's there now. Mrs Keijzer has just announced that she herself is very willing to consider whether financial consequences arise from the quality framework and whether the first impact analysis leads to decision-making, including by politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u97	In this sense, nothing has changed: I ask a very specific question, but I get the complete quality framework as an answer. Suppose at some point in an institution it is established that the standard is two to eight, that the inspection comes and finds that this is not the issue, then what happens? What does that look like in practice? I just want a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u98	Then it usually becomes an ascending ladder. First, the institution is given the opportunity to achieve an improvement within a given period so that it complies with the standard. If that doesn't work out enough, there might be a clue. If that is not enough, then a penalty charge can follow, which, as it were, makes supervision more and more stringent. That is the normal supervisory practice, as it is now taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u99	If I understand correctly, that's how it is. The inspection comes in and asks: do you have a standard? If the setting does not have a standard, the ladder applies, but if it does have a standard, the ladder also applies. In the end, therefore, a penalty charge can be imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u100	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u101	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u102	I now come to the specific questions that have been asked. I have tried to answer Mrs Marijnissen's question with passion and modesty. As I said, the Healthcare Authority is in the process of making an analysis. I hope that I will be able to send it to the Chamber very soon so that everyone can make use of it. The new cabinet or the formation table could then take a decision quickly. Mrs Dijkstra asked what the concrete plans are to address the shortages in care. I have already said something about this in general terms. I also promised to send the labour market letter to the Chamber very quickly. We're in the middle of a three-stroke. Firstly, there is a sector-by-sector approach. What, for example, is needed for the nursing home sector or for acute care in hospitals? Secondly, there is a sector-oriented approach to improving the link between care, education and healthcare provision. Thirdly, we are looking at the common bottlenecks, because it could be this way, and now I am making a little prediction about the letter we are making that we should look at the labour market of care much more comprehensively and not so much by sub-sector. For the flow, the training and the flexibility of the courses you have to look care-wide and even wider than just the care: you also have to involve the welfare side. Some rocks are already in the process of looking at how to break down the bulkheads, of which there are too many now, so that the labour market perspective for everyone undergoing care training is further enhanced. This information will still be found in the Labour Market Letter. Mrs Dijkstra and others have asked about the numerus fixus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mrs Dijkstra has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u104	When can we expect that labour market letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u105	If I have to make an assessment, it'll be next week. However, if I have to take all the questions you are asking into account, it may be a little later, but that is about the timetable. It might be good to list the numbers in the context of the numerus fixus first. In recent years all first-year students have been placed for full-time courses in nursing. During the part-time training of the 2015-2016 academic year, 10 out of around 600 students are not allowed. The reason for this is not known. The number of students in HBO nursing is increasing. In 2006, 3,800 were trained, in 2012 there were 5,000 and in 2016 expected somewhere between 6,000 and 7,000. The numerus fixus is a decision of the institutions. It was set up four years ago to ensure the quality of the training. Then you end up in a vicious circle: are there enough internships or not? Four years ago, there was an unexpected doubling of the influx of first-year students. From that time, that numerus fixus dates. At present, the number of HBO courses in nursing with a numerus fixus is falling sharply. For example, fourteen of the 17 HBO courses in nursing in the 2016 academic year had a numerus fixus. For the coming academic year, 2017-2018, there are five courses with a numerus fixus. By the way, I agree with the picture. As far as I am and will remain in dialogue with both the Ministry of Education and the educational institutions to see whether we can simply abolish that last numerus fixus. After all, there is a great demand for training. You must have very strong arguments for setting a numerus fixus as a first step. I think we should get rid of it. Again, that's already coming. There's another five.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u106	The Secretary of State has already indicated that he is still in conversation to see if the numerus fixus in the five remaining courses can still be removed. When will he be able to clarify this? In practice, you notice that the existing image is "but the question of whether you are actually admitted to it" is a negative irradiance to students who are considering opting for such an education.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u107	I can't quite see it, but I can imagine reporting on it to the Chamber in one of the labour market letters that we will undoubtedly send in the coming period. I don't think it's gonna work in the next letter, but I can say something about that in a month or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u108	But, of course, there is now a labour market letter coming. The point is now. Wide is said that we should not have this; this has also emerged in the past campaign. Can we not forge the iron now that it is hot, and now get the signal: we stop with the numerus fixus?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u109	For the record, it is a decision of the institutions. The conversations are going on right now. We will, of course, take a broader look at what caused you to have a numerus fixus. Do we really need to maintain them now because of the lack of internships? In that case, we really need to resolve that. We're working on that right now. We forge the iron when it's hot. So we're not gonna sit around and wait for a stand to come up. We're already having those conversations. But Mr Van der Staaij specifically asked when, in my view, they would lead to results. I can't tell you that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dijkstra asked a question about the side-inflow. That is a very important point. There are a number of ways to promote them. This can be done by actively recruiting and training people. There are institutions that do that. I would point out that 68,000 employees have been re-educated, re-educated and re-educated in the Healthcare Sector Plan. I spoke recently, last week, to a number of people who have completed further training. They were very enthusiastic about this and now work passionately in the care. There are a number of projects, such as Strong in your work, care for yourself, in which vulnerable groups are guided to get into care. We also work with the UWV to actively track down the people who would be available there according to the data for care. In the context of these labour market plans, we will really pay a great deal of attention to the side-inflow, because that could be an important stream to actually solve part of the personnel problem. I think I have already answered Mrs Dijkstra's questions about the Quality Framework and its guidance. Maybe I could give you another floor around the internships. The most important question I have come across is the following. How do parties like each other better if you want more internships? Sometimes the infrastructure of training and the provision of care is not such as to allow the parties to find each other quickly. The regional plans we are now making are making this ever closer. There is, as it were, a kind of infrastructure between healthcare provider, healthcare offer and healthcare training. Where this goes well, very good results are achieved, because the number of placements will increase. There is an internship fund of 112 million to make internships more attractive for employers. The number of internships has now doubled; that already indicates that we are slowly but surely achieving results there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u110	I have another question about the internship issue. I hear from the field that it is not only a problem to find the right link between training and institutions, but that there are also many institutions that simply indicate that they are not available. They have no people, no space and no time to mentor interns really well. That really is a different problem than a good link between training and institutions. Does the Secretary of State recognize this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u111	Yes. At least part of it. If you're very tight on your staff, or believe that you are, you don't feel much room to accompany trainees. At the same time, I also see that when institutions are very consciously choosing to make guiding a part of their business operations, with the idea that it belongs to them and that they need to train people who are partly learning and partly cooperating, they feel that this is a huge addition to their own business operations. But it is clear that if more money were available for more staff, more space would also be felt to accompany trainees. So it's not a necessary condition, but it helps. By the way, it is also a question of awareness. More and more employers are aware that offering internships helps to be and remain attractive. The number of full-time placements in 2007 was 2.441 and in 2015-2016 it was 4.721. That is therefore a doubling of the number of traineeships. You see the consciousness rise very strongly. But it's true that the sensed staff cut can be a factor to say: I don't want this to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u112	Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is important to have a good problem analysis, so that you know what the causes are for not getting enough internships properly organized? It starts with the fact that we first investigated very carefully why it hasn't worked out yet. Is there a problem analysis? Can the room get it, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u113	Yeah, it's in the labour market letter I've already announced. We'll deal with that. You can see that the regional approach, in which care training and care training are brought into much more structural contact with the employers gathered, leads to much better agreements on the number of placements. The problem of the labour market in care is only to be taken into your own responsibility if it affects you very much. Over the last few months, I have noticed in all the discussions with the healthcare professionals that it is necessary to find each other to look at what is going on in their own region, how to work together, how many internships are needed and what that means for the long term, strategic staff planning, is now doing much more. That's exactly the way we have to go with each other. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Hermans asked about the commitment concerning the integrated labour market analysis. In fact, a comprehensive analysis has been carried out over the past period, and I will send it to the Chamber in the short term in the context of the labour market letter. At least we will have the figures in our hands and the Court will be able to draw conclusions on the basis of that analysis. Mrs Hermans also asked about the educational vouchers. Around 1,050 applications were made in mid-February. Of these, 437 were awarded and 254 were rejected. 360 applications were still pending. We have just asked the Ministry of Social Affairs if this number is beginning to increase. That's the case. There are also a number of projects in which people are actively reminded of the training vouchers. However, I would like to make the point that training vouchers for people who now have unemployment benefits are in themselves a limited incentive to further increase their attractiveness in the labour market. They are of course not an answer if, for example, you want to come from an MBO programme to an HBO programme. Of course, those vouchers aren't for that. In any case, I am pleased to see that the initial restraint seems to be disappearing. Mrs Van Brenn asked me if I was also willing to actively encourage 45-plussers to work in healthcare. In my contribution, I have indicated that I do think that this is an important point of attention. I actually think it is a shame that so few elderly people work in care and nursing care. The life experience and work experience of many of the elderly is invaluable for the quality of care, especially in nursing homes. I therefore share the view that a combination of sectoral plans in which we are trying to pursue this is incredibly important. If I send the letter of employment to the Chamber, the new cabinet will also have to consider what additional measures can be taken to do so. I have already taken a few measures, and I very much agree with Mrs Van Brenk that we should continue to do so. The same applies to imaging. In fact, this is also in line with the motion by Mr Krol and Mrs Bergkamp, in which the cabinet is asked to pay attention to the image of the care. Mrs Dijkstra already referred to it. We have had several campaigns and there have been several activities in the field of the image of care: the Week of Care and Welfare, from 13 to 18 March; the campaign There is more behind, focused on HBO-V; the campaign Special Work, focused on disability care; and Future in the district, focused on community care. I can imagine that we will think further about what else we could do. We should weigh that up in the context of the labour market measures that we could take. We can do that on the basis of the letter I have just promised. This is, I think, an immediate answer to Mrs Ellemeet's question about the positive campaign. As far as is necessary, we will certainly involve other departments. Mrs Ellemeet asked about that. We are also working very closely with the Ministry of Education in this area. We are also doing this in the context of the Health Pact, which looks more generally at how we can further strengthen the link between training, education and care. There are a number of very successful projects in this context. Mrs Ellemeet cut a point I thought I had already stressed. That is: how do we ensure that we think care-freely and not just from the booths where the healthcare provider is in? For the career perspective for people in care it might be good to think about care and care and well-being, about passing on to other training courses and about broadening training. It is incredibly important that we look at the labour market more comprehensively, so that people's perspective can increase. So we will take that into account in the further plans. In fact, in the Health Pact, we are working very closely with the Ministry of Education, and I say this in response to a question put by Mrs Ellemeet. I think I've talked enough about the numerus fixus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u114	My question about the problems of care training was even more specific and is in line with the issue of internships, where my question is also whether there is a proper problem analysis. We get signals that students quit their education because they have to take a very heavy internship right at the start. That scares off and doesn't work well. We know that the link between different training courses is not good, which makes the flow more difficult. Is there a clear problem analysis of what is not going well with care training? Why don't students choose these courses? Mr Van der Staaij mentioned the numerus fixus, which may have a deterrent function. The courses themselves are not ideal either. There are all kinds of signals coming out of the field that it's not working properly. Are you going to include that in the labour market letter? Can there be a clear separate section with a clear problem analysis on these training courses so that we can think about appropriate solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u115	This is already in policy through the healthcare pact approach. You mention a number of causes, and that is exactly how it is, because sometimes it is also stuck with the pattern of expectations. A student follows a training course with a roc, chooses a particular direction and has a certain picture of what the course means. Then a student sits in school all the time, then goes into an internship and thinks: wait a minute, this is not what I expected! Partly in the context of the Health Pact and the regional approach, it is now very important that health education and care providers sit together and, as it were, make clear from the start of the training what the profession is and what students can expect from it. How can a good combination of work and learning be made? Where this takes place, the pattern of contempt at the front of the training is improved and the chances of a successful flow and later a job are greatly increased. There must therefore be flexibility in training and there must be a good infrastructure between care and education, but especially in the training itself it must be made clear from the outset what the work means, what you can expect and what the future prospects are. That is the analysis that has been made in the context of the Health Pact and which we take into account in the labour market letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u116	There are indeed good examples. We can see that things are improving in some areas and that initiatives are being taken to improve the link between practice and training. At the same time we still hear a lot of sounds that things are not going well in many places. I do not want to combine the analyses that are being carried out here and there, which are being applied and where improvements are being made. If you have it together, you can then think about the follow-up steps. The problem is still there. There are still problems with health education. We're still running out of staff. We will therefore have to do everything we can to ensure that the right measures are taken. Where are these analyses bundled? How can we get an overview of the problem analyses that are carried out here and there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u117	There are reports on that point. I refer to the RegioPlus approach, which you are also familiar with. The factors you now mention are different from one region to another. We need to keep a close eye on the best practices and the wider ones that can be used, including in other regions. That's exactly where we're standing now. There are very interesting regional approaches that lead to success, which we are now discussing with all regions and which form an integral part of the whole labour market approach. You're right. On the one hand, you must ensure that parties in the region take responsibility, because that is where it has to be done. Those training courses are there and that regional demand is there. On the other hand, successful approaches must be made available to everyone. That's what we're doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u118	I was just waiting for an answer, but it didn't come. I specifically asked if the Secretary of State was willing to do a pilot with the UWV to make sure that we can use the 45-plussers who have become unemployed in health care extra. I hope I do not have to wait for a letter, but the willingness to do that pilot seems to me to be the least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u119	There is that willingness, but I would like to check whether the agreements we already make about the 45-plussers and the agreements we make with the UWV are an answer to your question. I am in favour of this, because the effort in this area needs to be increased. I very much agree with you on that. Give me the opportunity to look at what is already going on and how this can be further strengthened. I can take that in my letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u120	I'd still like to come back to the internships. The Secretary of State refers to measures taken in the regional approach, which improves coordination. In practice, the workload in the institutions is so high that it is not possible to train people. Mrs Ellemeet asked if it would not be good to find out exactly what it is. I would like to hear a little more about it from the Secretary of State than just that there is now consultation and better coordination. In the end, you need enough people to reduce the workload in the institutions, allowing much more attention to the client. We can't wait very long for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u121	I am glad to hear from Mrs Dijkstra that we should not wait any longer. I've tried to indicate that there are multiple causes. Let me get two or three. The first cause is the culture of training. I'm gonna overdo it a little bit now. A healthcare provider used to recruit if there were vacancies and the training was a matter of care training. Then there is no training culture in which you think about in your own organisation: what can I actually do for my current staff, to continue to recruit new staff and to make internships available because I also learn from it, which also costs effort. That culture is changing. As a result of labour market development, many employers now realize that as an institution, you also need to think for yourself: what can I do about staff planning, including guidance and the opening up of internships? This cannot be done everywhere; it also depends on the scale. The second cause is the felt workload. If you are incredibly struggling with the workload and, for example, have many vacancies, the mood will not be great to make space and time available for internship guidance. Before you get some space for that, you often have to solve the problem of job vacancies and the workload. The second cause is therefore on the staff side. The third cause is the infrastructure, the consultation. Healthcare training, healthcare providers, employers and employees regularly sit together to see what is going on in the region, what is needed and how the demand develops. This is now highly developed by the regional approach. That's a third cause of what didn't go well in the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u122	I'm still struggling a little bit with the question of what the best solution is to get more space for internships as soon as possible. I think the regional approach itself is good, as is the mutual exchange. The question is, however, what is needed to reduce the short-term workload within these institutions. So we're gonna need more staff. It's gonna be some kind of vicious circle, and the question is how do we break it? I'd like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u123	You are now challenging me to come back to the beginning of the debate. Then we talked about how fast you can act, if you think there's a pressure problem. I have already made some extra money available myself, the 100 million, in order to do something quickly where the need is greatest. There is now an impact analysis by the Dutch Healthcare Authority on what the quality framework means and what costs are involved. One of the solutions is that I will not say that it is the best solution to be able to take decisions quickly. I have already said that my modesty fits me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u124	You're welcome to ask the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u125	And of your decisiveness, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u126	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u127	Mrs Ellemeet asked me to simply say whether it is not good to promote incompany training. I think that is quite right. It's kind of part of the training culture we were talking about. With the advent of the MBO legislation in 1996, inservice training was transferred to the ROCs, with which there was more separation between trainers and healthcare providers. There were reasons for that, too. Now you see that more and more employers realize that they can not only leave it to the training institutes, but that they themselves must also ensure that they have continuous training and training for their own people in which they can do their own retraining, retraining and further training in new issues, such as complex dementia care. There are also some good examples of this. There's more and more bets on it in company. I'm almost afraid to use the word "inservice training" anymore. You can see that there are now many more forms of mixing between the programmes and the Healthcare Institute and that there are programmes that you can do as an institution yourself with your own people in service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u128	Are you ready for a rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u129	I should like to answer Mrs Keijzer's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u130	I am a little distracted, because Mr Weisglas is facing me with a bunch of flowers. I'll get it later. Thank you for coming, Mr. Weisglas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u131	If that's why you'd like to suspend, I'll join you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u132	No. He knows better than anyone that he can't just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u133	I think I have already answered some of Mrs Keijzer's questions, such as her question on inspection. Perhaps a brief comment on what happens to her motion to remove the administrative burden put forward. I will shortly send two letters to the Chamber, one on the administrative burden in youth care and another on the administrative burden in the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo. They are in response to Mrs Keijzer's motion on that point. These letters also contain a programme to support healthcare providers in removing and removing burdens that occur in their own organisation. I can lift a tip from the veil. We have said it before: many of these administrative burdens are caused by the rules of the institution itself, which can sometimes not be reduced to central government regulations. It is precisely for this reason that it is so important to keep major clean-ups in it. I can imagine that, on the basis of the letters received by the Chamber, we will make further arrangements as to how we are going to deal with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u134	I have a question, because I'd rather not be disappointed. The motion begins with the final evaluation of the experiment low concern and states that it has been submitted by the field 700 rules to delete. Can I now assume that those where they do come from the government have been deleted?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u135	Sure. You will see that there are a large number of proposals for things that have already been done, that we intend to do and that we have put in a row to delete rules from the government's side. Mr President, Mrs Keijzer asked whether I recognise that there are many vacancies now. Yes, I acknowledge that, and that is what I started my speech on. You can see that there are more and more vacancies that are sometimes difficult to fill. That is one of the reasons why this joint labour market campaign is taking place. We talked about a numerus fixus. I also realise that, apart from the culture that we all have here, it is important to consider how we could further strengthen the labour market for care together with industry organisations. I believe that I have also responded positively to this and I am very willing to discuss this with the Brache organisation. Mr Nijboer's first question was whether I am prepared to draw up a plan to attract more staff to care in the coming years. Indeed, I would like to give a broad picture in that labour market letter of what our concrete agenda might be for the coming years. It is, of course, up to the new cabinet to fill that out, but I would like to make the move. So I will do so in that labour market letter which I will send to the Chamber very soon, as I promised. So I am working on this, both at regional and national level. Mr Nijboer also made a few commendable remarks, which I shall translate as follows. We have ensured that the debate on the quality of nursing home care has started, the cuts have been removed, some extra money has been allocated and there is now another ball on the spot, namely the impact analysis of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. I don't really want to make the comparison with football since the last few weeks. Because even if the ball is on the dot, it doesn't mean he's going into the goal. However, I assume that the parties involved in the formation can play football so well that we do not have to have that fear. Finally, I come to Mr Van der Staaij's remarks. I think we've already talked enough about the internships and the numerus fixus. The same applies to his question on administrative burdens. The Court can expect it to receive two letters in the short term in which we can discuss how to deal with administrative burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u136	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I think there is a need for a second deadline, but before we start, I will suspend the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u137	The next item is the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Agema. No, no, Mrs Ellemeet! You can't talk to the Secretary of State during the meeting. Only if there's suspension. I don't blame you. It is your first debate. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think this Secretary of State and I can agree on what "passion" is. I think it's always accompanied by some exuberance. Also in election time there has been very passionate talk and debate about nursing care. Even the VVD was excited to release 2 billion extra for that nursing home care. At the time we had also tabled a motion on the manifesto-Borst/Gaemers to achieve that manifesto and the occupation standard. Everyone signed that too. And I just sent a motion around earlier, and only Mrs Van Brenk wanted to sign it. So the passion for the nursing home resident has fallen quite a bit. If we want to settle money, we have to do it now, before the Spring Note. We cannot leave that to the formation, because then it will be 2018 and maybe even 2019, while people have the urine running along the ankles now, while there are now staff shortages in the nursing homes. That's why I'm filing the next motion. I hope passionately that Tuesday will be adopted. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, through the Spring Note, to add sufficient resources to the macro budget for nursing homes to achieve a minimum occupancy of two staff on eight nursing home residents at peak times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-267]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u139	Mr. Chairman. I too have heard the Secretary of State's passion. I heard some good ideas coming along, too. However, in such a first debate, I am somewhat behind in my ears, because it is a pity that the Secretary of State is indeed, as he said, outgoing and that it has not all been done in the last four years when he was in full charge. But I also agree with the Secretary of State when he says that the cabinet is decommissioned, but the Chamber is not. I think that as a Chamber we should explain this as an invitation to us as a Chamber to push the Secretary of State's passion and give him the means to do it. I have heard Mrs Keijzer say that she thinks it is important that all staff shortages are resolved this summer. I heard the Secretary of State say that it wouldn't be such a bad idea to give people from levels 1 and 2 a good place in the nursing home. That is why we would like to table a motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that problems relating to the quality of care in nursing homes have long been discussed;]] [[noting that the Chamber embraced Hugo Borst's manifesto and Carin Gaemers, which stated that more caregivers should be deployed;]] [[noting that there is a budget surplus of 2.9 billion;]] [[Notes that the Court considers that nursing home care directly needs additional care providers in order to provide decent, safe and good care for the elderly;]] [[calls on the government to make at least 300 million extra available immediately to more caregivers, starting in the nursing home sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-268]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u140	Mrs. Marijnissen just gave her maiden speech. She's actually filing almost the same motion as I just filed. I'd already sent my motion around. I think it is a rather unfortunate start, perhaps even a false start, which Mrs Marijnissen does not co-sign and then puts forward almost the same motion. I would like to ask Mrs Marijnissen: sign in now and withdraw the motion you have just tabled. Together we stand strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u141	Renske Leijten started first in this Chamber about the line-up standard of two out of eight, so if there is one party that is hot for the line-up standard of two out of eight, then it is the SP. If there is one party that has included in its electoral programme the full amount that the CPB has calculated, which is over 2 billion euros, then it is the SP. We warmly embraced the Carin Gaemers and Hugo Borst manifesto with the occupation standard of two out of eight. If we can arrange that tomorrow, we'll take care of it tomorrow. Nevertheless, we have tabled this motion because it responds to the appeal made by the Secretary of State on behalf of the cabinet: the cabinet is outgoing but the Chamber is not. And we are taking the bottom, which everyone in this Chamber agrees on, namely EUR 300 million extra. That is why we have said: let us at least do so. That is also an additional argument for the parties who are now sitting at the formation table. They do not have to wait for that, because we all agreed on this. Well, that's different with your motion, isn't it? So if we want to have extra people in nursing homes this summer, we think this is a very good first step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u142	No, before the election recess, this Chamber agreed on a minimum occupation of two out of eight. You need 2 billion euros for that and not 300 million. For 300 million euros, you may be paying the salary of 6,000 employees, while 37 000 have just been fired. I don't know the SP like that! I don't know the SP as a party going for a marginal plus. I know a SP that goes "good." That is why I do not understand why Mrs Marijnissen suddenly throws overboard all her ideals by pleading here for EUR 300 million. That's impossible, isn't it? The people are now with the ankles in the urine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u143	You are against the wrong party, because once again, if there is one party that has spoken here first about an occupation standard, then it is the SP. And it was you, Mrs Agema, who was critical of the occupation standard; I looked back at that debate from December 2016. I have the literal quote of yours lying there. You said: I do not know if that is such a good idea from Mrs Leijten, because it does not work in child care. It has always been the SP who has advocated an occupation standard of two out of eight. We will always do that. And the SP is also the only party with an election program calculated by the CPB that can pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u144	We are not going to vote on the motions until Tuesday. Maybe it's an idea to see if that can be coordinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u145	No, the point is that I have clearly stated here that I have concerns about an occupation standard of two out of eight for heavy nursing home residents. There's probably three of them. That is a minimum, but for Mrs Marijnissen, the minimum of the minimum is 6,000 instead of 50,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u146	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Oh sorry, Mr Nijboer also had a question. Come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u147	If you turn the sound off, you think they don't agree at all, and if you turn it on, maybe you don't. But when I hear you like that, Mrs Marijnissen, do you agree with Mrs Agema on the substance of care for the elderly and care for the nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u148	You're referring to the occupation standard? I have just given a very clear answer to that. It is Renske Leijten who first advocated an occupation standard here. We have always fanatically embraced Hugo Borst and Carin Gaemers' manifesto. We are the only political party with an election programme calculated by the CPB which reserves sufficient funds for the occupation standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u149	Clear, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u150	You can act against anyone in this Chamber at that point, but not against our party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u151	Where do you want to go, Mr Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u152	I just wanted to clarify the debate a little bit, including for the people who are watching. I find that the PvdA, the SP and the PVV are simply in agreement. That's all I wanted to do. It's not an attack, either. It's just a fix. I think the debate will be helped if that is done. That's why I did it, Mr. Chairman. So I think we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u153	Perhaps for the sake of explanation, we ourselves have earmarked EUR 2 billion precisely because we say that this occupation standard should be here today and not yesterday. I think it's a hell of a scandal that he's still not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u154	It's not gonna work, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u155	The question is whether we are going to get a majority for this. And the parties I have just heard say 'we are in formation, we are not going to anticipate that now', at least have those EUR 300 million in their election programmes. It would be a scandal if we all walked out of the Chamber today without agreeing or agreeing on something that we all agreed on before the elections, namely at least EUR 300 million to care for the elderly immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u156	This was your first debate, wasn't it? Well, that promises! I give the floor to Mrs Hermans, who speaks on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u157	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and his officials for the first-term replies. I look forward to the documents on the labour market, the analysis and the other documents that the Secretary of State said about this. I would like to hear how we will work on this together with the sector and education in the years to come. We have a role here in the Chamber to continue to emphasise the good, beautiful and special stories. I have already said a few things about this in my first term. We must continue to focus on the current labour market instruments, the vouchers and the Internship Fund, with the ultimate aim of continuing to guarantee the passion, dedication and expertise of employees in the sector now and in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u158	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS will support all motions that contribute to improving care. The need for more staff in care is widely borne in this Chamber. This applies not only to care for the elderly, but also to the whole of care. This is an expression of appreciation, something that is very much needed. We are also looking forward to the labour market letter. We will judge whether the Krol/Bergkamp motion has been sufficiently incorporated into this. Although we have heard the goodwill of the Secretary of State on this point, we would nevertheless like to table a motion on unemployed people over 45. That is an extremely important point for 50PLUS. Unemployment and staff shortages are two spearheads of 50PLUS. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are significant staff shortages in the care of the elderly;]] [[Whereas there is a high level of unemployment among 45+;]] [[Whereas these two can be combined by actively focusing on guiding unemployed people over 45 to the care sector;]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the UWV and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, to launch a pilot to this end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-269]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u159	Mr. Chairman. In my view, we can conclude that all parties and the Secretary of State agree that staff shortages in the health labour market are one of the major challenges of the coming period. In order to be able to do this properly in the near future, we must have a very sharp eye on the causes of the problems. The Secretary of State met me in part with an initial analysis. I ask the Secretary of State for a separate paragraph in the labour market letter, in which he summarises the conclusions of the reports to which he refers. He pointed out that there were a number of reports which outlined a problem analysis of training and the link between training and practice. I'm talking, for example, about internships. I ask him to reserve a separate paragraph for this summary, so that we have a clear understanding of how we can deal with the problems and how we can proceed with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u160	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions. Training and better remuneration are needed to obtain sufficient staff. I have not heard the Secretary of State say much about this, but it requires a better reward, including for people who simply do the work in the care sector. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of this. We have had a wide-ranging debate on what needs to be done in the care of the elderly and the nursing home. Rapid decision-making is really important. That should be done by spring note at the latest. I've heard the negotiating parties right: trust us, it's gonna be okay. I'll stick to that, too, but I need to be clear about that within a month. It is about large money; that has been appointed by several parties. The PvdA Group is in favour of taking out that money as well. I have tabled a motion that leaves as much room as possible, including for those parties, to support it together. I have also been in the position of not being able to embrace too many claims at once. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas additional investment in care for the elderly is necessary;]] [[Whereas resources should be reserved by spring note at the latest to clarify care and nursing homes;]] [[whereas the Cabinet is a missionary but the House of Representatives;]] [[calls on the Government to make additional resources available to improve care for the elderly in the spring note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29282-270]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u161	The likely new opposition still needs to learn how to work together. I have just tabled a motion: 'calls on the government to add sufficient resources through the spring note'. And now Mr Nijboer is tabling the same motion. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u162	I cannot escape the slight impression that it is of the utmost importance in the Committee on Health, Welfare and Sport who is the first to be under the motion. There was also a high-level discussion about something on which two parties, the SP and the PVV, agreed in substance. It is the same in politics: as a PvdA, I do not let myself lean on the fact that we cannot work together. We have recently taken very difficult measures with the VVD. The PVV is now taking a rather assertive tone. If you first say "you're all wrong, everything is the PvdA's fault, nothing is good," then you can't be surprised that we don't work together and our name isn't under the motion. It doesn't work that way, Mrs. Agema. In the care committee, I'm gonna work with passion. Maybe that's the kind of passion you'd like to see. I'd like to be willing to do that, with all the parties. In this case, I do that to Mrs Van Brenn. I would also support the motion of the SP, but I did not mention 300 million, because that seemed difficult for the other parties. That's what we just talked about. That 300 million might not be good enough to get maximum support. That's how I'm gonna do it, Mrs. Agema. If next time we can hang out together, I'd love to, but I'm not gonna let it get to me first that I've done a lot of things wrong. It cannot be that you slander me a little and say: I must be the first to stand under the motion, you have to sign at the cross and we do not discuss it. I'm not gonna be a part of that; I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u163	I have requested this debate. I was the first speaker. It is more so in the Lower House of the States-General that when you file about the same motion you will stand under one motion. The one who has broken through the mores was the Labour Party in the past period, with that categorical discrimination policy, which voted against any proposal by the PVV. It is up to Mr Nijboer to break that. Mr Otwin van Dijk, the predecessor of Mr Nijboer, always waited a few weeks before he took a proposal. But Mr Nijboer does so in the same debate! You can't do that!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u164	My normal mode, and that of the Labour Party, is that we assess proposals in substance and also jointly seek solutions. If we disagree on the substance of the matter, we will have a sharp debate. That sharp debate should not be about who is first under a motion. In the discussion with the SP, things were getting rather high; I rarely experienced that in the Finance Committee. This, while agreeing on the substance of the matter. I'm not gonna be a part of that. I'm trying to keep the peace for the next few years...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u165	And the passion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u166	... and I thank you for this first debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u167	Madam President. I would not like to miss the opportunity to make a small contribution in the second term in this passionate debate. The word 'passion' is indeed the most widely used word in this debate. I think that stands for passion for something that has touched you and also for the ability to overcome difficulties. I believe that all this is urgently needed in the debate on care in the coming period. This involvement on the people who really are involved, and fortunately so many people who are passionate about care: that is today's subject. I have noticed that Mr Nijboer is a keen observer, because there is indeed a great deal of agreement on this. Although the pitches are somewhat different, in fact everyone thinks it is incredibly important to see how we can best shape the huge labour market statement in the coming time. There is also agreement that extra money is needed. Whether it is necessary to do so immediately, from yesterday, from the spring note or from the formation table, there have been quite a number of different modalities here today. But the fact that more money is needed for more hands on the bed is beyond question. In a missionary period, it is always a matter of paying attention to what is the right course. Of course, when it comes to amounts that are needed for the long term, for the years to come, that is not to be dealt with in a quickie. However, I do think it is realistic to look at what more is needed for the current year, also with regard to the labour market. I hope that the Secretary of State's labour market letter can clarify this further. This can give a clear picture of what is really needed and useful for the current year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u168	We have come here at the end of the second term of the Chamber. I understand the Secretary of State can answer directly. Yeah, and he's got all the motions, too. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u169	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to address a specific question from Mrs Ellemeet, namely whether I would like to address in the labour market letter what we already know on the basis of previous reports on the precise problem of the connection of placements to education. I'm gonna do my best to do that. Then the Chamber can learn about the insights already acquired from previous reports. I'll get on the motions. I have to try to shape that passionate restraint. That is not an easy task, but let me try to do so, bearing in mind that a judgment of mine is of little added value to the opinion that the Chamber should have on itself, in view of these motions. In the motion in part No. 267 states very specifically that during peak times a minimum number of two employees on eight nursing home residents must be achieved. I would like to point out that the Quality Framework for Nursing Care states: be careful when dealing with a fixed relationship, precisely because you have to think about different groups. Yes, we have asked the Dutch Healthcare Authority for an impact analysis, but some restraint would also be appropriate on this point. After all, you would almost introduce a fixed standard again. The Dutch Healthcare Authority is looking at this, but the Quality Institute warns about it. That is why this motion would be less appropriate as far as I am concerned. In the motion in part No. 268 is requested to make at least 300 million extra available. I support the passion expressed by this motion, but at the same time I have announced that the Dutch Healthcare Authority will soon present an impact analysis, with an analysis of what the Quality Framework means. In anticipation of that, fixing an amount without you having been able to see the pieces does not seem entirely appropriate to me. That is why I consider the motion to be premature at least. I suggest we wait for the impact analysis. In response to Mrs Van Brenn's motion on item No. 269. I'd like to see if we can come to an agreement. What she's asking is already de facto. The project Strong in your work, for 45-plussers, has been launched following an earlier motion of 50PLUS. That's what we're working on right now. Actually, I don't think it's a good idea to start a new project. The target group will be extended to people who do not have a job in health care as of 1 April. In this sense, therefore, we are responding to what is requested in the motion. I therefore propose that we write down in this labour market letter what we are doing now. For this reason, the petitioner might be able to hold on to that motion and see if that is satisfactory. At the motion in part No. 270 is perhaps the optimal combination of passion and restraint, because the cabinet in the outgoing state is being asked to do something about the Spring Note. It doesn't suit me to make a statement on that. There is a real need for an opinion from the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u170	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate. Oh, Mrs. Van Brenk has something else to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u171	I can live with the proposal to hold that motion. So I'll wait for the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u172	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (29282, No. 269). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-29-tweedekamer-6.u173	I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
