ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Koopmans of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants more room for a Dutch explanation of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Court regularly takes too little account of national circumstances and then makes too far-reaching judgments, which can then easily be interpreted extensively in the Dutch legal sphere. For example, almost everything can be declared a human rights issue. We are against this for two important reasons. Firstly, human rights are extremely important. It is precisely for this reason that we do not want the concept of human rights to be extended so that it covers matters far removed from its actual meaning. This undermines the support for human rights and also for the Court. Secondly, we believe that in principle Dutch judges can best assess the Dutch situation themselves. Protocol No 16 enables senior national courts to seek a non-binding opinion from the Court in concrete cases. The Protocol can thus promote subsidiarity and the freedom of interpretation of national courts. I would like to mention three points. 1. The Dutch court may also ask for an opinion on its own. 2. If a Dutch judge applies Strasbourg's reply in his own way, it must be less attractive for trial parties to appeal it in Strasbourg. 3. After such an application for an opinion, Strasbourg itself will be more difficult to reject the ruling of the Dutch court. Before the VVD agrees to the protocol, we want to make sure that the protocol will work in this way and that in practice the protocol will not lead to even greater interference by Strasbourg in the Netherlands. Under no circumstances should opinions become de facto binding. This could happen, for example, if the opinions are very specific or if the Dutch court does not allow itself in practice to give its own interpretation of the opinion. The VVD wants to make sure in advance that we can evaluate the situation after a number of years. Should non-binding opinions be considered de facto binding, then we can see a basis in it to withdraw the protocol if necessary. I am therefore considering asking in a motion for a resolution for more certainty that the protocol actually promotes subsidiarity. I have seven questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u3	Before you ask those seven questions, Mr Van der Staaij has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u4	Seven is the number of the fullness, so I'm sure that's going to be an impressive series of questions. How does the VVD Group see the risk of the Council of State being identified in the opinion, namely the risk that the Court's influence on the application of the ECHR in the national legal order will increase and that the Court will be given more opportunities to act as a steering body? Shouldn't we say much more: national judges, be assertive in the application and see the own space there is? We are not going to ask the European Court first: how do you really want us to explain this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u5	The VVD Group fully agrees with Mr Van der Staaij on this point. On the contrary, there must be more room for the Dutch courts to interpret human rights themselves and to apply it to the situation themselves. We believe that this protocol can help to achieve genuinely more subsidiarity and a more national approach, but we do want to be sure of that. That is why I ask the Minister to make it clear that in practice the opinions coming from Strasbourg are not binding. In practice, the Dutch court should use that space to answer itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u6	I have sympathy for that. I support the same objective: more subsidiarity and more room for national Member States, politicians and judges. But what exactly is the point or advantage if Dutch judges have to put simple questions to the European Court? What kind of profits do you book with that? I still do not think that is clear after Mr Koopmans' speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u7	The potential benefit of the protocol is that Dutch judges can prevent many cases from going to Strasbourg. They may be able to formulate a question to Strasbourg in such a way as to prevent all parties to proceedings from appealing again in Strasbourg. This will ultimately allow Strasbourg to decide or decide fewer things itself. As a result, there are less binding rulings in the Netherlands from Strasbourg. In that sense, it can help. Perhaps, for example, the Supreme Court could formulate the question in such a way as to include those larger groups, so that we get a lot less applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u8	I don't quite understand where the fear of the VVD is. National courts are given the power to ask a question. There will then be an opinion, but that is not binding. How does the VVD measure whether things are going the way the VVD wants them to? That's basically what it's all about. These are opinions, but if they are too often followed, they are de facto binding and then we have to cancel the protocol. How are we gonna measure that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u9	They are opinions and we want to make sure that they remain opinions. We know in this Parliament that something would not be binding, think of the Ukraine referendum, but that in practice it is considered to be binding. That's what we're trying to prevent. How can you test that? We must then, of course, first evaluate the practice. How do you evaluate it? First of all, by determining whether the opinions coming from Strasbourg are formulated in such a way that the national courts have the scope to apply them to a specific case. Or is the advice so detailed and specific that the Dutch judge no longer has a choice in practice? That would be bad. The second point, and then I stop, is: how does the Dutch judge deal with it in practice? Does he see room for himself to interpret or does he think: such a non-binding opinion is actually a decree that I have to apply one-on-one. That would be bad, too. We would like to evaluate it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u10	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u11	I was with my seven questions. One: does the Minister share the concerns of the VVD Group and can he remove them? Two: the case-law Council states that an application for an opinion entails around €10,000 in additional costs and delays the legal procedure by an average of two years. Why is it taking so long and why does it have to cost so much? Three: is it true that national courts can meet the costs within their own budgets? Four: have the working disadvantages of the Court been reduced, as previously stated? Five: how long does an average procedure at the Court actually take these days? Six: the Court itself indicated that the long-term burden of work in Strasbourg could be reduced because this protocol would lead to more cases being dealt with at national level. Is that an accurate assessment when perhaps more questions can come to Strasbourg? What about in the short and medium term? Finally, what can the Minister do to promote faster justice in Strasbourg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u12	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u13	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, I received a petition from relatives of murder victims and the Centaur CID. Together with them, I want to fight on behalf of the PVV against a huge injustice that these victims are being harmed. Murders committed before 1988 shall not be prosecuted. So there are murderers in the Netherlands who should not be prosecuted. In the Netherlands, perpetrators have far more rights than victims. The PVV would like to change that. If we get enough support for that in the Chamber, we can actually change the law and track down killers and put them in jail for a long time. At least you'd think so. But no, I'm afraid it doesn't work that way. The ECHR, a European treaty from the early 1950s, is blocking this. There is much wrong with the ECHR and, if possible, much more wrong with the ECHR, the college of meddling, non-democratically elected or democratically controlled judges in Strasbourg. The ECHR was established immediately after the Second World War. In that war nearly 2.5% of the world's population were killed and nearly a third of the Jewish people were exterminated. It was against that background that the parties to the treaty believed that there should be ultimate control over the abuse of state power. However, the judges in Strasbourg, as non-democrats often do, have stretched their mandate extremely. That court should look at the ultimate limits of justice. It doesn't now. As a hungry tiger devours its prey, the judges of the ECHR have abolished laws, as we have democratically made here in the Chamber. Laws must be established by democratically elected representatives of the people. That is the system we agreed on in the Netherlands, see Article 120 of the Constitution. The ECHR system is at odds with that idea. The position of the PVV on the ECHR is not new. The PVV considers that the Dutch Constitution and the Dutch laws protect the rights of the Dutch sufficiently and sufficiently. The transfer of sovereignty to the Strasbourg Court is a threat to our democracy. In a democratic rule of law, the democratically legitimised legislator primarily determines what is right. The ECHR is outside the control of national parliaments and forces countries to review democratic policies at national level. For example, the ECHR recently ruled that the state should actively provide the opportunity for people with life imprisonment to develop "in view of possible freedom." Lifelong life was not put into the law for nothing by the Dutch legislator, but because of the ECHR, lifelong life in the Netherlands is no longer lifelong. With this protocol, the power of the ECHR is increased a bit, at the expense of our influence here in the Netherlands. The PVV has previously tabled a motion to leave the ECHR so that the Netherlands is no longer bound by the often foreign statements of the ECHR. The ECHR has no choice but to interfere with internal national affairs. The protocol we are discussing today only means more impact of the ECHR on our national legislation. If you are in favour of a democratic rule of law, you can never support the ECHR. In a democratic state governed by the rule of law, the democratically legitimised legislator primarily determines what is right, as I said earlier. We want the Netherlands to be ours again. Part of this struggle is that democratically elected representatives of the people, so we are again, as we are sitting here, the only power that makes laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr Markuszower makes it clear that he wants the Dutch judge to deal with the Dutch situation again. I assume that Mr Markuszower agrees with me that we are not leaving the Strasbourg Court at the moment, if we would like to. If this protocol worked out in such a way that the Dutch judge actually had more to say about Dutch situations, would Mr Markuszower be in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u15	I didn't understand part of the question. Get rid of what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u16	Let us accept as a basis that the Court will continue to exist in Strasbourg and that the Netherlands will remain a party to it. At least that's what the VVD wants. If so, and if this protocol could help to make the Dutch courts more competent, would Mr Markuszower be in favour?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u17	First of all, I do not share Mr Koopmans' underlying truth, namely that we could not withdraw from the ECHR. I'm going to file a motion in the second term. I invite the VVD to finally support it, because I know that the VVD is in word critical of the ECHR and the ECHR but not in action. I therefore hope that the VVD will support the PVV's motion to withdraw us from the ECHR, which means that we are no longer bound by the crazy statements of the ECHR. As far as the second part is concerned, I do not share the view that this leads to less interference. I refer, for example, to Article 34 of the ECHR. It could still be the case that disadvantaged parties, after the legal proceedings in the Netherlands were closed for those people, can directly contact the ECHR with individual requests. It then seems very logical to me that the ECHR will decide in line with earlier opinions. I therefore think that the ECHR will have more power, as has happened over the past 50 to 70 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u18	I hope I understand that Mr Markuszower would appreciate it if this protocol ultimately had the effect that the Dutch judge would enjoy more subsidiarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u19	If, if, if. I think we in the Chamber should first look at how we, as Members of Parliament, have a greater influence on the legislative process. We were also elected by the Dutch citizens. Again, I do not foresee that this protocol will lead to more influence from the Dutch judge. In my piece it is not even about the Dutch judge, but about the Dutch legislator. That's us. We as MPs are now being severely restricted in our space. That's my primary concern. If that is settled, then I do not have to worry so much about those judges, because they are bound by Article 120 of the Constitution, by what we decide here. Then there is no escape, not even for the Dutch judges, not to do what we have all agreed to here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u20	Mr Markuszower launched a frontal attack on the European Court in Strasbourg, as the PVV often does. However, he began his speech by referring to the horrific events of the Second World War and the reason why the Treaty was created. I note that most of the judgments of the European Court refer to very serious violations of human rights in Russia or, for example, Turkey. Can I understand you, Mr Markuszower, that you say that there is really nothing going on in those countries and that we do not need that European Court at all anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u21	I say several things. I think it is a very interesting question and I thank you for that. First of all, we must ask ourselves whether we want to be party to a treaty which includes countries that so grossly violate human rights. In addition, look at the events after World War II. I would remind you of the terrible violations of human rights in Yugoslavia in the 1990s. You mention violations of Islamic dictatorial regimes such as Turkey, for example. What does the ECHR really do about that? It makes statements. But on the ground doesn't change that much in those countries. What I see is that countries like the Netherlands, always the goodest boy in the class, listen to those statements. In fact, we are already restricting ourselves because we are afraid that statements will follow. I had a debate this morning. In that the same minister happened to say: we cannot do that. In my view, this was the result of an amendment by the VVD. I do not think that would be a good idea, the Minister said, because it could run counter to the ECHR. So with that whole ECHR, we take ourselves out. The real violations of human rights, the real problems in Europe, are not solved by this treaty. The ECHR has not been able to stop events in Yugoslavia. Turkey and Russia, you will agree with me, will not care at all about a court ruling of some judge who is locked up in his ivory tower in Strasbourg. Human rights violations continue. The only thing the ECHR does is restrict you and me in our space to make laws for the Dutch here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u22	I think the PVV is already making a spin, because this is actually a plea for a much more robust Court. For Mr Markuszower says: the rulings of the European Court in Streetburg must indeed be implemented in Turkey, in Russia. I very much agree with him, but I think that is a very different plea. But it's a nice twist I hear. What I do not understand very well is that the PVV then says that it wants an opt-out: it is fine if the Court does something about it, but it should be more robust; but we do not participate in it. I think that's a form of cherrypicking. I would like Mr Markuszower to explain again how we should see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u23	If my words are interpreted as a twist, I have expressed myself very badly. Let me clarify. We want to get out of the ECHR. What Turkey or Russia does with the ECHR really has to do with it. I do not have the illusion that Turkey or Russia listens to statements from the ECHR or feels bound by the ECHR, so that they are treaty parties is not so relevant. The PVV wants out of the ECHR. I don't think that's a turn. That seems to me to be a very consistent attitude that the PVV has had for years now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u24	Madam President. I would like to start with a quote: 'Crucial is that not appointed judges, but democratically elected politicians determine the content and scope of laws and treaties. Almost sixty years later, the result is that the judges in Strasbourg have all too often become "politicians in gown." I can see the Minister's understanding. He remembers that this is a passage from an opinion article in the Volkskrant of more than six years ago by the authors Stef Blok and Klaas Dijkhoff. Let them be the Minister and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. This is more than just a joke or an anecdote to confront this minister. For me, it is a genuine marking of the next discussion that was sparked with it, also in the Netherlands. We see an expanding power of the European Court of Human Rights. It is too damaging to legislation that has been democratically established. The question is how the focus of human rights protection can be brought back more at national level. How can we restrict the European Court a little more? That was the thrust of this opinion article at the time. I would be interested to hear from this Minister whether he shares this approach and whether that is also the position and commitment of the Dutch Government. I would like to highlight the following two points in my contribution. What about the political power of the Court? Is this actually restricting it or not? A second point of discussion that has always been raised in recent years is the impact on that other problem: the enormous workload of the Court. The first is the growing role of the European Court of Human Rights. I support the idea that the interpretation of human rights, which is becoming more and more detailed, should not be interpreted by unelected judges in Strasbourg, but rather that this should be a matter for the national Member States within the more general framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. If I look at it that way, I sincerely wonder whether it would help us now to have a protocol that would allow judges to seek advice from the European Court on the interpretation of the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights. I also see the question mark in the opinion of the Council of State. It says that this choice may result in the Court's influence on the application of the European Convention on Human Rights in the national legal order being increased, which the SGP Group does not really want. Shouldn't you let judges take a more assertive look at what is in the text of the European Treaty and what case law there is, and then let them make their own choice and not have them ask each time: "What do you really think? How should this be explained? What exactly is our margin of manoeuvre?" I find it rather paradoxical that this bill should be presented with the objective of increasing subsidiarity. I don't see it so much yet. That is why I would like to challenge the Minister, because we have not yet reached a final conclusion. If he can keep a good story with clear examples and say that it does work out that way, I would like to listen to it, but for the time being my group's interpretation is that it leads to an expanding power rather than a limited power of the Court. Then I come to the question: binding or not? The opinion of the European Court, as we estimate, will, in many cases, be of a binding nature. Formally, the judge keeps the room to depart from the opinion, but in practice, by way of derogation, it is very easy to go to the European Court with the opinion in hand with a great chance of success. You can say that they have given advice on how they look at it, but if it is not followed at all by a national court, the chance is much greater for lawyers and such like to say: well, here is a great opportunity to go to the European Court of Justice. This contributes to another problem, namely the workload of the Court. Does this proposal really lead to a discharge of the Court's workload? Doesn't it lead to an increase in the workload? I'd be happy to present those critical questions to the Minister. One of the interesting proposals made at the time in the opinion article is to increase the steering role of the Committee of Ministers within the Council of Europe in order to achieve greater legal certainty and clarity. How does the Minister see that perspective? What possibilities does he see for that? Finally. It strikes me that the list of countries that have signed is now beginning to be impressive. There are fine states like San Marino and Estonia, but we still lack some allies in this fight for more subsidiarity, such as the United Kingdom. What is the position of other countries with whom we have been raised against the desire to place more emphasis on the protection of human rights at national level rather than at Strasbourg level? I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u25	Mr. Chairman. This is actually a special afternoon. At the same time, when we are talking in this Chamber about the legislative proposal for the adoption of the 16th Protocol to the ECHR, it is an important moment to review our respect for the human rights issue at the UN. It is important that the Netherlands should also be placed along the UN human rights measurement bar. As far as we are concerned, human rights are a very important issue. This legislative proposal governs the implementation of the 16th Protocol to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We already know these kinds of preliminary rulings from the European Court of Justice. They work excellently in themselves, with the understanding that any judge can request a preliminary opinion from the European Court of Justice. Judges are given a tool for the interpretation of European law and judges are given an insight into similar situations. An opinion on a question of principle can thus settle a large number of identical court cases. The opinions are therefore also economically relevant, as we see it. The main concern raised in the written input is the extent to which opinions restrict the discretion of judges. To what extent does a national court actually have the room to depart from the opinions of the ECHR? The cabinet is not so concerned about this. I think this is justified. In the end, the preliminary ruling may not be voluntary, but by definition it is not binding. The national court will have to exhaust its arguments in passing an opinion. In the end, that seems to me to be a good thing for the development of the law. Maybe I sound a little faint now, but still. If those concerned do not agree with the different interpretations of the highest national court, the corridor to the ECHR is always open. It is not self-evident that in such a situation the ECHR follows the earlier opinion one-on-one. The ECHR will have to relate to all the circumstances of the case and will have to take into account the national assessment space. The opinion therefore contributes to ensuring respect for internationally recognised human rights and fundamental legal form. The European courts play a vital role in the protection and respect of human rights. GroenLinks regrets that Dutch citizens have to rely on the ECHR and not on our own Dutch Constitution. Unfortunately, the ban on the review of Article 120 of the Constitution does not stand in the way of this. The Dutch court must not rule on the constitutionality of a Dutch legal provision in a specific individual case. The Netherlands is therefore a major exception. The ECHR's preliminary rulings contribute to legal form, by providing an authoritative answer to questions of principle in individual legal cases. In order to strengthen the legal form of opinions, I ask the Minister to leave it open and without obligation to inform the Chamber of the possible consequences of the opinions delivered on Dutch law and regulation if necessary. It is expected that these are questions of principle, so it can be assumed that the Dutch legislator would sometimes have to take an explicit mandate to update national legislation. In the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Parliament and the legislators need to be contacted as soon as possible, because this is the only way to get a dialogue involving the entire trias politicians and to promote optimisation of the protection of national rights and European human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. The importance of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights is particularly great. The same applies to the European Court of Human Rights. This can be judged on complaints about alleged violations of the Human Rights Convention. There's no question about this. We must be careful to protect human rights. In this light, I also find the view of the PVV strange: who is in favour of the democratic rule of law is against the ECHR. Or words of equal effect. It is precisely in a democratic rule of law that there is a separation of powers, there is a balance between those powers and the power of the legislator is not unlimited. It is a good thing that there are limits imposed by human rights, among other things. It is a good thing that there are limits to the power of the legislator. The SP welcomes the fact that our highest national courts have the power to request an opinion from the European Court of Human Rights on questions of principle, on interpretation, or on the application of the rights and freedoms laid down in the ECHR or in its protocols. Such an opinion is not binding; it is up to the national court to close the case. It can of course be expected that the opinion will be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u27	I did say that you can no longer be good for the ECHR if you are in favour of the democratic rule of law. That remark ensured that the Dutch legislator, therefore, you are no longer free to make laws, because they are restricted by the ECHR. How does the SP see that? Doesn't the SP find it annoying that on your premises you are very often sitting here a bit for bacon and beans? In the area of justice, laws are often restricted. Then what are you still doing here? Then why don't we leave everything to the ECHR? You are restricting yourself very much by supporting the ECHR, and that surprises me in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u28	The PVV is really failing itself. In fact, Mr Markuszower says: we are here for bacon and beans. Not just me, but everyone is sitting here for bacon and beans, because we would be so limited by the European Court of Human Rights. That's bullshit! It is precisely in a democratic rule of law that we have a separation of powers. The power of the legislator is not unlimited, and he should not be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u29	Certainly the power of the legislator is not unlimited. But in the Netherlands, we have agreed on a system, locked in Article 120 of the Constitution, which prohibits the courts from checking laws against the Constitution. Thus, the Lower House is the primary pointer of law. That is how we agreed in the Netherlands before the treaty was signed in the 1950s. The ECHR has greatly increased the scope of its mission, thus greatly limiting the primary task of the legislator. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's Can Mr Van Nispen refute why that is so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u30	Can you refute that? Why wouldn't you? It is a good thing that there are fundamental rights, that there are human rights, that they apply internationally and that the power of the legislator is not unlimited. We have a separation of powers. That is the way it is in a democratic rule of law. Sometimes the PVV can find that annoying because it makes unconstitutional proposals. It is also a good thing that this is sometimes not possible and that there are judges who do pay attention to fundamental rights and human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u31	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u32	Can you give one example from the Constitution that you say is contrary to fundamental human rights? Do you not think that Dutch law is sufficiently protective of Dutch human rights standards and values?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u33	That is not the question at all. There are fundamental rights in the Netherlands. They are also enshrined in international human rights conventions, and that is a good thing. It is true that the Netherlands has sometimes been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights. You can have some of that. You can enter into the discussion, I don't do that about the margin of appreciation, about the discretion. Is it too limited by the European Court of Human Rights? However, a rigorous view of the PVV in the sense of "let's throw the ECHR in the trash" is significant for the views of this party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u34	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u35	That advice we were discussing is not binding. It is up to national courts to close the case, but it can be expected that the opinion will be taken into account. It is precisely this procedure that seeks to promote dialogue between the Court and national courts, so that account can also be taken of national circumstances, legal culture and socio-economic and political backgrounds. The evaluation room that I was just talking about remains, of course, and that's good. I do have a few questions. The European Court of Human Rights may give its opinion upon a request from a national court, but after that opinion the same case may still be referred to the European Court of Human Rights. What room is there for the European Court of Human Rights to judge differently from what the opinion originally said? In other words, shouldn't the opinion be taken directly as a final judgment? I would also like to see an explanation of the possible coincidence with the preliminary ruling procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union. Mrs Özütok also mentioned this. The procedure in the EU Court of Justice is sometimes almost mandatory, but the procedure at the European Court of Human Rights is optional. That's how we've arranged it, but is this all right? Is it right that the EU Court of Justice should have some sort of priority? Is that what we're supposed to want? I understand that it is now, but let's think about it: is that a desirable situation? I come to the workload at the European Court of Human Rights. We have often drawn attention to this in the past. According to the Explanatory Memorandum, this proposal is expected to have a positive impact on the workload. It's gonna decrease. I sincerely hope so, because there is still a great deal of complaints about possible violations of human rights waiting for substantive consideration. Can the Minister explain why he expects this proposal to contribute to eliminating the backlogs? Is that enough? The SP fears not. We also believe that the budget of the European Court of Human Rights should be considered. This is really in stark contrast to, for example, the budget for the Court of Justice of the European Union. That has about five times as much to spend every year. In addition, we believe that countries that are constantly condemned for violating human rights are always the same leaders in the negative, for example Turkey, for example Russia, should be called upon to amend their legislation and policies. Is there enough to address the problem of the workload and the delays at the source? A well-functioning European Court of Human Rights is very important, in order to protect human rights, in the Netherlands and in many other countries. The European Court of Human Rights can be seen as the critic of power. Let us, as a national legislator, see it as a challenge not to be fooled by this human rights court.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Chairman. Let no one say that it is not about anything in a missionary period, especially in the Committee on Security and Justice! Yesterday, we adopted the Act on Damage to Function, this morning we debated the protection of children as relatives, and now we are discussing questions for a preliminary ruling from the European Court of Human Rights. It's kind of about something. Important things are being exchanged today. I agree with the PVV that you sometimes see that human rights become instruments in the hands of people who have just violated the rights of others. I found the example very striking. Yesterday we received a petition together, in which we were given roses. The petitioners indicated that their loved ones were murdered and that human rights stand in the way of the perpetrators because it happened too long ago. I often have discussions in Brabant about organized crime, which throws sand into the machine every time. Even the King's Commissioner once asked out loud if we haven't gone too far, making our rights more instruments in the hands of people who want to be wrong than acting as our own basic human rights in our law. I think this is a fundamental question. I am pleased that Mr Van der Staaij reminded us that the Minister also spoke about how to look at human rights and the Court. Following on from him, I would therefore like to hear from the Minister how he now looks back on this from this position. How does he look at this human rights debate and the space we offer to the European Court of Justice? A number of Members asked today how much room we will have for later when an opinion is given and when a case will be brought to justice. In the course of this debate, I suddenly had to think of the Personal Data Authority, which very often calls on organisations or governments because they are doing something that should not be done. Then these authorities or authorities say: could we ask in advance whether or not this is allowed or not? Then the Dutch Data Protection Authority says: no, we don't, because when we give advice on it, it limits our space to find something about it later. This therefore lives very concretely with regard to an actual human rights aspect. Is the Minister aware of this and should we not look at it as well? Shouldn't you ask for advice much more often and then see if that advice is followed in the individual case by the person who gave it? I find this interesting. As far as this protocol is concerned, it is indeed striking that a number of countries that are most affected are, in fact, all countries that do not agree with this protocol. We asked for this in the written round. So we might actually be a little bit of the best boy in the class. Then, of course, there's always the question of whether you want to be. Perhaps; perhaps we want to be the best boy in the class in terms of human rights, but we must continue to have the fundamental discussion about whose hands this aspect is now often used. We should also be able to adjust and adjust sometimes if we really think that things no longer fit in with how we look at criminal law in particular. I think most of the questions have already been asked. I am also curious whether this will ultimately lead to delays or, in the end, to faster clarity. Large groups who do not agree with something will then go to the European Court and may then shut everything down for longer than we want. So a quick advice can save time; that's how we understand it. This is important, but as several Members have said, proper evaluation is necessary. Only then can we see how this works in the end. We too are very curious about this. Human rights are something to cherish, especially when we think about what month we live now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u37	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. Human rights are the basis of our democratic rule of law. For D66, the European Convention on Human Rights is an important pillar of the system for the protection of human rights. It will therefore not surprise anyone that D66 believes that the application of the European Treaty by national courts should be as effective as possible. If the human rights treaty and the case law of the Court are not sufficiently clear, it is a good thing that the court can seek advice from the national court. Following the opinion of the European Court, the national court knows how the European Court interprets the Convention and can give an opinion, taking into account the specific circumstances of that country. Careful justice and justice, that's what it's all about at the heart. The fact that, in the long term, I hope the Court's workload will be reduced is a good thing. My group raised a number of questions on the proposal in the written round, which have generally been answered clearly. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a reply on a number of points. In the first paragraph of the explanatory statement, the Minister writes that Protocol 16 aims to "enlarge the competence of the European Court of Human Rights to issue opinions." A number of speakers have referred to this. Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to an opinion paper written by group chairman Blok and MP Dijkhoff in 2011. They argue in favour of restricting the European Court and writing about politicians in toga. I now note that Mr Blok's proposal, with the explanatory statement I have just quoted, is, to say the least, a remarkable change. Can I draw your attention to the fact that the Minister has chosen, with a progressive insight, to strengthen institutions that want to protect human rights rather than restrict them? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Then there's the evaluation room, the so-called margin of appreciation. Several spokesmen have also spoken about this. This discussion is often held in the Chamber. When I read the Minister's answers in the documents, however, I wonder whether this is still a point. This area of assessment is generally enshrined in Protocol 15 to the European Treaty. For today's topic, the request for an opinion, the request for an opinion is voluntary, the content is not binding, the judge may therefore deviate from it, and he may also withdraw his request in the meantime. So he's basically in charge of that criminal case. The opinion is strictly based on the legal interpretation of the European Convention on Human Rights and not on the individual case. Do I understand that the Minister is actually saying that this whole discussion about margin of appreciation is no longer an issue, that this is already well regulated in Protocol 15 and in the preamble to the European Treaty, and that we do not have to worry about it anymore? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Finally, the lead times already mentioned by several speakers and the workload for the case-law. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having consulted the Council on the case-law, which is why we also have an assessment of him. This additional workload, the costs and the delay of about two years in the courts of the Member States is a focus of attention for D66. When I look at the overall picture of the effects that the adoption of this Protocol could entail, I attach importance to identifying a number of aspects. For example, the question of how often such a request for advice is used. What are the lead times and the workload effects for Dutch case law as well as for the European Court of Human Rights? Is this indeed strengthening the role of national courts in the application of the European Treaty? That question has been asked before. Does the Minister share the need for this insight and the answer to those questions? If so, how will he provide for that evaluation? Does he do that at national level, at European level or both?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. A number of speakers pointed out that, although this protocol is by an international treaty, it is also, to a certain extent, a debate on very fundamental constitutional and international questions. Although Mr Markuszower is very critical of the ECHR, he was right to point out that the ECHR came about after the horrors of the Second World War, in the belief that it was wise for countries to establish and commit to a number of very fundamental human rights principles with each other in the context of: never again! I thought I understood from Mr Markuszower that he might also have difficulty with the ECHR itself. I'd say, how can you be against the ECHR? There is a legitimate discussion that I have also participated in and which I will discuss later on on how far judges are going in practice to apply the ECHR. But the text itself, especially with the history of the ECHR, is something that I believe we support very widely in this Chamber. We are talking about very basic human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u40	This concerns in particular the expanded explanation given by the ECHR. Does the Minister consider that the ECHR or the ECHR has proved to be a good weapon against the gross violations of human rights committed in the years following the signing of the Convention? I refer once again to Yugoslavia. The ECHR or the ECHR has not been able to do anything about the horrors or genocide committed there. Nor the gross violations of record criminals, such as the Islamic dictatorship of Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u41	Unfortunately, the existence of the ECHR and the existence of the European Court of Justice have not led us to live in a paradise of democratic constitutional states. It is true that the large number of procedures, especially from countries where democracy and the rule of law are under pressure, indicate that residents of those countries are very pleased with the possibility of checking or condemning the procedures there. Where we consider it important that the inhabitants of those countries have that possibility, it is logical that the inhabitants of our country have that possibility. That does not alter the fact that, once again, I shall go into this in detail in a moment, so that it is legitimate for politicians to have a discussion on whether the application of laws in practice is as we or our predecessors had in mind. This is also part of the rule of law and an international treaty is also a form of law. It would be very strange if you weren't allowed to have that discussion with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u42	Is that so? Does the Minister think it is being applied correctly? For example, his ministry also includes "life snake." In the Netherlands, we have agreed that if a murderer is sentenced to life imprisonment, this is also a real life sentence. However, the ECHR has recently decided that this is no longer a life sentence at all. I would like to hear what the Minister himself thinks about the ECHR rather than saying that it is interesting that the Chamber discusses it with one another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u43	The answer does require a constitutional approach. Rule of law means that a politician refrains from judging an individual judgment; a judge's ruling is carried out. But a politician as a legislator or a representative of the people can say something about the way in which laws or treaties are applied and in which we see a pattern. That is a reason for me to propose that a law or a treaty be amended. But a rule of law always means that, as long as a law or treaty is not adapted, everyone abides by it. The question of whether or not you agree is irrelevant. You have the right to propose an amendment to that law or to that treaty. That's also the particular position you're in as a politician. But as long as the law or the treaty applies, you'll follow the judge's rulings. You're not gonna go with the judge about an individual verdict in dispute either. However, you can raise the underlying laws or treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u45	At the moment when someone is minister that isn't just a title then it's also just a politician. So I ask the Minister whether the Minister is happy that the Minister has been confronted with a statement by the ECHR in which a Dutch law under his ministry can no longer be implemented because life is no longer per se life in the Netherlands. I ask the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u46	The concept of "nice" does not solve so much in a political debate or in a state-law question. The cabinet, every Dutchman, abides by judgments of judges and international judges. The cabinet saw no reason to want to change the European Treaty as such. I shall now turn to Protocol No. 15 because this is indeed about subsidiarity and it also has a role to play in the subject that Mr Dijkhoff and I raised six years ago. I had started a broader reflection on the role of human rights and the way in which we laid it down in the ECHR. I also refer to the point made by Mr Markuszower, namely that when you are a State party to a treaty, this inevitably means that you adhere to it, so in a way you limit yourself to the moment when you might decide to come out of such a treaty. It cannot be surprised that when you are a party to a treaty, the rights and obligations of that treaty also apply to the country you represent and therefore to the parliament of that country. What is at issue now is a protocol to that so important and large treaty, a protocol which aims to strengthen the dialogue between the national courts and the European Court of Justice and thereby strengthen the role of national courts. In this sense, it is a strengthening of subsidiarity. I shall now turn to Mr Van der Staaij's question as to whether it really is. In addition, it is an important effect that can reduce the workload in the long term. Not in the first instance because there is a good chance that you will first get some sort of bow wave of questions, but because of the clarity that can be created in advance, the number of individual matters can decrease in the long term. Both objectives, strengthening the role of dialogue between national courts and the European Court and curbing the great workload, are objectives supported by the Cabinet. That is also why in 2011 the Netherlands, together with a number of other countries, took the initiative for this protocol and I can now defend it here. Against the background of this introduction, I shall deal with the questions put by the various Members. Mr Koopmans began by asking whether I believe that this protocol can strengthen subsidiarity. This is explicitly the objective, as the government also stated in the explanatory memorandum. This protocol allows national courts to raise a point of law to the Court at a very early stage. It is the national court that makes the wording of that question. The wording thus allows national courts to demonstrate how the European Convention should be applied. At the moment, there is no such possibility. These will often be procedures whereby the parties or one of the parties indicate that they are in contact with the ECHR, so that there is a good chance that a follow-up procedure will be launched in Strasbourg following a national ruling. There is now no option to take the intermediate step in which a national court asks: can I see that we can put it into Dutch law in this way? I am thinking of a very influential ruling, namely the Salduz judgment. This involved the presence of an attorney in a police interrogation. Its implementation had far-reaching consequences in the Netherlands. This seems to me to be a typical case. It is ultimately up to the court to decide whether or not he is doing it in which Protocol No. 16 could have been useful, but it didn't exist at the time. The judge could have asked: can we implement it in the Netherlands in this way, knowing that in the Netherlands legal aid is arranged as it is arranged and the compensation system is arranged as it is arranged. In such a case, it provides the possibility of customization that otherwise is not there. That was also the reason why the Dutch cabinet was co-initiator of this proposal at the time. Mr Koopmans asked why the national procedure was delayed by two years. Those two years are an assessment by the Council of Justice. That is, of course, a very well-founded assessment. The period of time which the Council expects for the case-law is motivated by the fact that the national court wishes to make serious work on the formulation of the question and its justification, as it includes the translation into Dutch practice. Next, the Court of Justice in Strasbourg needs time to reach a well-founded judgment on this matter. On that basis, the Dutch court must translate it into the practice of the present case. It is indeed a significant period, but it is expected that it will replace a number of procedures in which it will be presented to Strasbourg in the traditional way. Mr Koopmans asked whether it was true that such a procedure would cost €10,000 and that it could be dealt with within the Council's existing resources for justice. The cost assessment has also been made by the Council of Justice, which I consider competent in this area. In fact, it is expected that there will be some additional tasks in the procedure. The Council's budget for justice is about one billion. Since it is not expected that a lot of procedures will take place, a number of procedures with a cost item of €10,000 in an annual budget of 1 billion are no reason to adjust the budget. Mr Koopmans has asked whether the delays in the Court have been reduced. Indeed, in 2014 and 2015, the working stock, i.e. the backlog, fell significantly. The number of cases completed was higher than the number of cases brought in. There has been a slight increase in the last year. This may have specific causes, e.g. detention conditions in a number of countries. This indicates that the workload remains a relevant theme. That is one of the reasons why the cabinet submitted this proposal to the Chamber. Mr Koopmans asked how long a procedure at the Court lasts on average. That's very hard to say. It's very diverse. It ranges from very urgent cases where the Court can also decide very quickly to very complex cases with long lead times. I'd hurt reality if I pulled an average out of that. Mr Koopmans has asked whether it is a real assessment that this protocol reduces the workload of the Court. That assessment was, of course, made in shaping this protocol. As I pointed out in the introduction, it is expected that a bow wave may arise because judges present points of law at an early stage. The result is at the same time that hundreds of similar individual cases are prevented. As a result, there may be a net reduction in the workload. Mr Koopmans asks what has been done to promote this rapid process of justice in Strasbourg. I have already indicated that, fortunately, progress has been made and that this protocol is also part of tackling the workload. Mr Koopmans, like Mr Van der Staaij, asked whether I could deal with the concern of the Council of State that the effect of this law would actually be contrary to the intended effect. The intended effect is an early dialogue, allowing a judge to implement the European Convention on Human Rights at national level. On this basis, a judge can obtain a non-binding opinion, because a judge is not obliged to follow that opinion, even if it is of great importance. Since the possibility does not exist right now, I already gave it to the court, there is now no other route than the way to the Court, without that possibility for a judge to submit a question he or her answered with national components. It means, therefore, that the Court, which will continue to work to the best of its conscience, can only apply the current procedure, which may well be a little more coarser than when it was first prepared along the route of the national court. That is why I have the confidence that the operation will be right that subsidiarity and the role of national courts will be greater. I would like to tell Mr Koopmans and also Mr Van der Staaij that we will have to see in practice whether that is the case. This always applies to the adoption of new laws, of course. I am also happy to report to the Chamber on the way it is working out. But I find it very plausible, otherwise I would not have been standing here, that this will be the effect of this new opportunity. Then Mr Markuszower. In my introduction, I already mentioned his criticism of the ECHR and the ECHR. I therefore believe that criticism should always be possible, but that the principles in the European Treaty are so essential that we cannot disagree with them. I think it is a great thing in a democratic rule of law that you dare to look critically at the way laws and treaties are applied. I have done so myself in my role as a Member of Parliament. I am still willing to do so, but I am not of the line that we should no longer be working with the ECHR. I am of the view that we must also apply the instruments we have in order to be able to implement them wherever we think there is a need for adjustments. The Protocol that is now before us and the Protocol 15 that has been before us are examples of this. Then I come to Mr Van der Staaij, who started with a quote from the piece of opinion written by Mr Dijkhoff and myself. Others went into that, too. That opinion piece also says very clearly: the ECHR itself is a treaty that is so fundamental that you can only agree with it. But the opinion document also says: precisely because human rights are so fundamental and so broad, judges must be very careful about the great power they actually have through the statements they make under that human rights treaty. That opinion document then called on the government not to denounce the ECHR, but to take measures, together with other Member States, to ensure a clearer framework for how these human rights would be applied than in concrete cases. Shortly afterwards, the Brighton Conference was held. That was also the reason for writing the article at the time. At that conference, Protocol 15 explicitly stated that the margin of appreciation could be applied. As requested in the document, the ministers present there have quite deliberately said that countries are different. This does not mean that fundamental human rights can simply be put aside, but that the exact way in which you apply these fundamental human rights in your national legislation or practice may vary from one country to another. I was therefore pleased with the adoption of Protocol 15. This has not yet been adopted in all countries and therefore has not yet been adopted in force. I have already indicated that Protocol 16 also strengthens national implementation. The contradiction that Mr Groothuizen mentioned, he asked whether I am sorry about the article and whether my presence here is in line with that, so I do not see at all. Fortunately, the national ministers in Brighton have taken on their responsibilities. This discussion played, and still plays, not just here. Mrs Van Toorenburg was right to point out that the debate now also takes place in the Netherlands on the issue of lifelong learning. But also in England, France and Spain played that discussion at that time. In England it still plays very prominently. At any rate, it has led to additional international agreements being reached at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u47	I hear what the Minister is saying, and I can certainly place it in the context of Protocol No 15 on Member States' discretion. But the key question in this legislative proposal is, of course, whether the intended effect, the strengthening of the national space, is really being served by this additional possibility of seeking advice. Can the Minister give an example of how that possibility could serve the purpose? We've been talking a few times about the life-long discussion. Is it not a much better way to clarify the legal form of this task through the Committee of Ministers, rather than asking at an early stage what the European Court actually thinks about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u48	In fact, both routes are being walked. The Protocol 15 route runs through the Committee of Ministers. The Protocol 16 route, which is now before us, goes through national courts. I gave the example of the Salduz arrest. It is also, by its nature, a type of question of law which does not occur so often that I can now think of many examples where I can properly reflect that national interpretation. However, I found the Salduz arrest so relevant because the way in which legal aid is designed in the Netherlands compared to surrounding countries is rather generous. In that sense, therefore, we deviate from other countries bound by the same treaty, including access to justice and the rights of the accused, i.e. access to a lawyer. It is, however, real to suggest to the others that we think it can be done in this way, given the way in which we do it and the costs that we incur with it. You can very well demonstrate that our practice is different from that in other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u49	Sure. I agree with the Minister. But why should the national court not be able to impose this simply astutely, if it is politically well-behaved in the country itself and if it appears in legislation that this is a conscious choice in the Member State concerned? Well, that could be reflected by a supreme judge, couldn't it? Should it result in a subsequent complaint, the European Court can say that the country has a proper assessment board which has thought this through and that the Court can therefore say 'yes' to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u50	It's possible. Indeed, a national court can itself draw the conclusion that the ECHR has been properly implemented. The route to the Court in Strasbourg is also open in any case. What does this procedure add? If the route referred to by Mr Van der Staaij is followed, the accused party will go to the Court in Strasbourg. The national court will then no longer be able to carefully formulate a case to Strasbourg with the words: 'If we do so, we will, in my opinion, comply with our Treaty. Do you agree?" I can't do that anymore. Then you are totally dependent on the ruling in Strasbourg. It may contain less tailor-made work for the Dutch position than a ruling prepared by the national court. The part of the national preparation, where a case is precisely tailored to the national situation of the question of law, is added by Protocol 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u51	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u52	Finally. At the same time, there is a risk. Suppose the judge does not make the choice that it is actually a good explanation of the European Convention on Human Rights, applied in the Dutch situation. If the request for advice is submitted, there is a good chance that the Court will say that the ECHR should be interpreted in a specific way in that situation. In doing so, the room for the courts to make another choice has become de facto very limited. In this way it is precisely a form of surrender of freedom rather than acquiring customization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u53	Mr Van der Staaij is now setting out a scenario of strong containment, but that possibility would already be available to the Court via the regular route. The political debate in the Netherlands is always about issues that many parties here feel: now national policy freedom is very important. That possibility is already there. That is why we are holding the debate. That is why I started the debate at the time. If we don't do something, it won't change. What we are adding is the creation of an intermediate route, in which, within the human rights provisions of the ECHR, we present a national interpretation to Strasbourg. So it falls under the category "No you have, yes you can get." However, it is not the case that the influence of the Court is suddenly excluded, because judges have the opportunity to make their own judgements, but they will do so via the classic route.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u54	As far as there may be a gap between the Minister and Mr Van der Staaij, I would like to make an attempt to jump in and ask the Minister as follows. If this protocol is introduced, is it not the case that the national court itself may ask Strasbourg for more room for national courts to colour the opinion when it comes back from Strasbourg and thus to promote discretionary power and subsidiarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u55	That's exactly how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u56	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u57	No, I was still with Mr Van der Staaij's questions and I also have questions from other speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u58	Oh, I thought you'd come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u59	Then I would have to do a number of members of the Chamber short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u60	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u61	Mr Van der Staaij has asked whether the Netherlands actually has allies, which he apparently did not count on San Marino and Latvia. I fear that Mr Van der Staaij will be unaware of an award from these countries. The initiative for this Protocol was initiated by the UK Presidency of the Council for Europe. Mr Van der Staaij is right that, despite this initiative, the United Kingdom is not now ratifying because it wants to see effects in practice first. Norway, the other initiator, is currently ratifying. France is also in the process of becoming a party. It is therefore not the case that we are working on this in solitude, at least with Latvia and San Marino. I hope that the question on the workload put by Mr Van der Staaij will be answered in response to Mr Koopmans' question. Mrs Özütok raised the question of whether the European Court's opinions should also be passed on by the government to the Chamber in order to involve them in legislation. That's a link I don't see directly, because Protocol No. 16 is precisely about the context of an individual trial. I cannot entirely rule out the fact that an individual case has a cross-border effect, but it would not make sense to assume that every time such an opinion is requested, as a government, that it will immediately affect the whole of the legislation. Mr Van Nispen also commented on the effects on the workload. I hope I answered that question. Mr Van Nispen asked: suppose that after an opinion an individual complaint on the basis of the ECHR will be submitted. Is the Court not obliged to decide in accordance with the previous opinion? That's a logical question. It is not so black and white that, after reading the opinion, you already know what the final verdict will be if the same case is presented as an individual case. For the purpose of this Protocol is the judicial dialogue, i.e. the formulation of the question by the judge, the reply of the European Court and then the translation of the Dutch court's opinion into national case law. If the same case is submitted individually again, the European Court will also look at the final implementation by the Dutch judge. There's been a case that provides a lead. That was a British case about the right of interrogation in criminal proceedings. That case was referred to the Grand Chamber after a ruling from the ordinary Chamber. But in the meantime, the English Supreme Court had ruled on the same matter. Then the Grand Chamber involved the Supreme Court's ruling on that matter. This illustrates, therefore, that the European Court of Justice, although Protocol 16 is not yet in force, has already looked at the national approach to the question of law that has been put to them. Mrs Van Toorenburg referred to the far-reaching role played by the European Court of Justice in interpreting the Convention on Human Rights. I have indicated that Protocol 15, but also Protocol 16, in my opinion strengthens the national area and also the dialogue. Ms Van Toorenburg drew on the possibility to ask for advice in parallel with the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I understand the question very well, if only because of the great commitment we both feel in the exchange of information on the fight against organised crime. I will be coming to the Chamber shortly with the Bill Implementing General Data Protection Regulation. I propose that I address this question in detail at the time, because I think it is a relevant question, but I would be failing to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u62	Can I help the minister a little bit? A few years ago, we had a discussion about the Amsterdam digital moat. Then we asked if the Dutch Data Protection Authority could give an opinion on whether something like this could happen. I was told at that time: we do not, because then we will be unable to supervise. That is a very concrete example. So I don't know how that goes. I know that the Authority advises on legislation and that it informs companies, but it would be so nice if they would just go one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u63	I understand Mrs Van Toorenburg very well. Local authorities, companies and other organisations regularly approach the Authority with the question: can you judge whether what we are doing is good, because we do not want to act in violation of the law? Then they will not get an answer, because the Authority says that we, as an auditor, will have to have the freedom to act. I think it is an essential question. I would do you no good at this moment, when we will probably be discussing this issue in greater depth soon. Mrs Van Toorenburg then referred to the also essential question of possible overlapping of a preliminary ruling procedure with the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg and proceedings under this Protocol 16 with the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. EU law is unbearable in that if there is a fundamental right protected by EU Charter, the national court is obliged to refer the case to the Court in Luxembourg. That's very one-dimensional. Well, it might well be that Mrs Van Toorenburg is referring to the same question which could also be put to Strasbourg. The presentation to Luxembourg is compulsory. Now it is up to the judge to decide whether he wants to submit it to Strasbourg. It is not obvious, as we have said in the explanatory statement, because you are creating confusion. And if there is already an obligation to submit it to the EU Court, you will increase the confusion by submitting the same question elsewhere. I have to confess that it's not illegal either, but it's not obvious. Mr Grothuizen stressed the importance of the ECHR, which I share with him. I have already indicated in the introduction that I see no conflict with what Mr Dijkhoff and I have written about this before. Both in Protocol 15 and in Protocol 16, I see that progress has been made. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u64	We have a vote after this and then another debate after that. That vote would take place no later than 3.50 p.m. Do you need a second term? Very briefly, I hear. I'll hold you to that. I call Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, I would like to table a motion on behalf of the VVD. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the 16th Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is optional in nature and that Member States therefore consider whether or not to sign the Protocol;]] [[Whereas there are doubts as to whether the non-binding opinions which the European Court of Human Rights may issue under this Protocol will actually act as non-binding in practice;]] [[considers that it would be undesirable for opinions to be de facto binding;]] [[noting that it is possible for a Member State to terminate the Protocol once it has been signed;]] [[invites the Government to review the functioning of the Protocol after a period of four years from its entry into force, in particular to examine the effective functioning of the opinions and to assess whether the effective functioning of the opinions gives rise to the withdrawal of the Protocol,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Koopmans. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34235-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u66	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. As I said in the first term, there is much wrong with the ECHR and much more with the meddling, non-democratically elected or democratically controlled college of ECHR in Strasbourg. As elected representatives of the people, we must determine what primary law is. That is why I am tabling the next motion on behalf of the PVV Group. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) is forcing national, democratically established legislation to be reviewed;]] [[whereas the Netherlands should redeem itself from the ECHR;]] [[calls on the Government to denounce the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34235-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u67	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, his response and his explanation of the legislative proposal. We support the objective of strengthening subsidiarity and reducing the workload of the Court, but we doubt its effectiveness. Will the chosen form of an additional advisory option contribute to achieving that goal? We see a considerable risk, namely that this can have the opposite effect. It increases the workload and leads to an earlier and clearer guidance from the European Court of Justice on national implementation and application. In this respect, I have to say that we do not have sufficient confidence in achieving the objectives of this Protocol. I will therefore propose to my group that we opt for the British variant, as the Minister explained. We must first see how this protocol works out in the countries that have already committed themselves to it. On this basis we can assess whether this is also a sensible route for the Netherlands. The Minister also referred to the contribution of opinion, and I have already referred to it, in which he stressed these points in terms of more national space. I would like to return to one aspect, namely that the scope and the ECHR should be more coloured by the Committee of Ministers, so that it is also controlled by democratically elected parliaments. On that point, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Committee of Ministers has an important role to play in defining and interpreting the European Convention on Human Rights, and it is important that the margin or appreciation of Member States should not be unnecessarily restricted;]] [[considers that, from the point of view of democratic control, it is primarily the task of the Committee of Ministers to provide clear frameworks for the scope of human rights provisions;]] [[Calls on the Government, while maintaining a broad margin of appreciation for Member States, to come forward with proposals to promote better application of the guarantee function of human rights by the Committee of Ministers and the Court of Auditors on efforts and objectives by 1 October 2017,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34235-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply. My group sees the relationship between individual court cases and the implications they may have for Dutch legislation in general as quite different. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the preliminary rulings delivered by the ECHR in individual cases affect questions of principle and may therefore affect Dutch legislation in the general sense;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Court of Justice of the possible implications of ECHR referrals for Dutch legislation in general, in cases where it considers it appropriate and taking into account the individual course of law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34235-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u69	Mr. Chairman. The SP welcomes the fact that the highest national courts may request an opinion from the European Court of Human Rights on the interpretation and application of the rights and freedoms laid down in the ECHR. The importance of the European Convention on Human Rights is particularly great. The motion of the VVD is a little too negative for us, and that is why I will advise my group to vote against this motion, but of course in favour of the legislative proposal. The fact that the European Convention on Human Rights is truly alive is extremely welcome. We can see that in the crowded bleachers right now. People have come in great numbers to listen to this important debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u70	However, I wish the teachers who have come to the next important debate every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u71	This was a one-time thing, because you guys really shouldn't go clap during a debate. You can't do that anymore, but this time you'll be forgiven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u72	Mr. Chairman. Expressing your feelings is also a human right, let's just say. I think the Minister has sometimes thought: beware what you ask for, you might get it. That is a bit of a free translation of Mr Van der Staaij's motion which states: you have said a, now you must say b; let us think further about human rights, the scope and the margin of appreciation. Let that be the main catch of today's debate. However, there was an interesting bycatch, namely that we in the Netherlands also have watchdogs in the field of human rights who are reluctant to advise, whereas we often just want to know if this is allowed and can or that we will soon get a tap on our fingers. I'm glad the Minister's picking that up. Let that be the by-catch of a valuable debate on human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u73	Mr. Chairman. I am particularly pleased with the words spoken by the Minister in his introduction. It clearly underlined the importance of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and made a clear statement on the state of law. As a director and legislator, you have to abide by judgments of judges, so that you can, of course, always discuss the content of treaties and laws. This seems to me to be a very clear line, but unfortunately, as I have to conclude in the public debate, it is still a mistake. I thank the Minister for setting that line so clearly. I would also like to thank the Minister for the clear answers on the margin of appreciation. I conclude from this that this 16th Protocol is in fact in line with the system laid down explicitly in the 15th Protocol. There are therefore no problems in this respect. However, the Minister did not answer my questions about an evaluation. I asked him what he thinks of having an evaluation. In particular, I asked him how often this instrument is used, how it affects the lead times and the workload of both the Dutch judges and the European Court, and how it affects the role of national courts. If the Minister thinks that such an evaluation is a good idea and undertakes to keep it, will he look at it at national level, at international level or at both levels? Of course, we will not support the PVV motion. I also have difficulty with the motion of the VVD, so I will advise my group not to support it. That motion is linked to two thoughts. It seems to be based on a kind of hyperactive judges in Strasbourg and extremely non-aesthetic judges in the Netherlands, who would not be able to deal with that space. I therefore ask Mr Koopmans to reconsider his image of judges in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u74	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Is the Minister able to deal briefly with all motions? If there is a need for a suspension, I would first like to do the votes and then reply to the Minister in the second term. The minister's already standing by. Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u75	Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I shall deal with the motions. The motion in part No. 8 invites the Protocol to evaluate, after a period of four years from its entry into force, in particular, the effective functioning of the opinions and to evaluate whether the effective functioning of the opinions gives rise to the withdrawal of the Protocol. I have already said that I would like to be prepared to review the Protocol. And if you're willing to evaluate, you're willing to do it with an open mind. So if it doesn't work at all, you should also dare to say that we shouldn't go through with it. In that sense, I would like to take over the scope of the motion and leave the motion to judge Chamber. With regard to Mr Groothuizen, I would like to say that I will look at the impact it has in practice on lead times, both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr. Koopmans, the motion is judgment Chamber. Would you like to ask if she can be taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u77	Yes, I'd like to ask the Minister for clarity. Has the motion been taken over?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u78	That's up to the Chamber. I'm willing to execute her. If you withdraw her, you have my undertaking that I will carry her out, but you can also allow her to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u79	Please continue; the motion in part No. 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mr Markuszower asked the ECHR to resign. I have already indicated that human rights in the ECHR are so fundamental. How could you, even as a PVV, be against the right to property? Or the right of access to justice? If you're ahead of that, you should also be willing to record it that way. So I'm deceiving the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u81	It is disappointing that the Minister has so little confidence in this house's own legislation and in its own Constitution. According to the Minister, doesn't it satisfy you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u82	That'll do, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u83	Then why do we still need the ECHR?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u84	Why should you not want to establish fundamental human rights internationally, given the introduction that Mr Markuszower himself started with, the terrible cause for that European treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u85	No, Mr Markuszower, unless you withdraw or maintain your motion. But that's not the case, I see. Then we're at the motion in part no. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u86	This is Mr van der Staaij's motion calling on the government, while maintaining a broad margin of appreciation for the Member States, to come forward with proposals to promote a better application of the human rights guarantee function by the Committee of Ministers and the Court of Auditors on the efforts and objectives envisaged by 1 October. I agree with the thrust of the motion. This is also in line with Protocol No. 15. Unlike Mr Van der Staaij, I am convinced that Protocol No. 16 in this line is, but I'm willing to continue acting in this line. I do not know whether it will be possible to inform the Chamber before 1 October 2017. I would like to make a point, because I do not know when we will have discussions in the context of the ECHR at international level, and I can therefore really report on something. If it doesn't work before October 1st, I'll let the Chamber know. So I'll take over this motion as well. I'd like to leave it to the Court's judgment. Then I come to Mrs Özütok's motion on item No. 11. It invites the Government to inform the Chamber of possible implications of ECHR preliminary rulings for Dutch legislation in general, in cases where the government considers it appropriate and subject to individual legal procedures. I have already indicated that I do not expect very often to hear statements in individual cases that will directly affect national legislation. Since Mrs Özütok uses the wording "in cases where the government considers it appropriate," it does not lead to the obligation to report on every case now. That is why I can leave this motion to the House. Mr Van Nispen once again expressed his support for the bill and for the important role of teachers, but you will be discussing this in a moment. Mrs Van Toorenburg supports the Van der Staaij motion. I have already indicated that I am sympathetic to this. Mr Groothuizen agreed with the importance I attach to the ECHR. I hope I have replied on the evaluation that I want to do so in line with his proposal. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-10-tweedekamer-7.u88	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled and on the legislative proposal. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. Then we will vote on one motion and then the debate on the workload in primary education will take place.
