ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u1	I have a small domestic announcement. I shall do oral Question Time until 2.30 p.m. Then Mr Ton Elias will take over the presidency for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Then I will be very quick and give you and, of course, your staff the very best wishes, as this is the first Chamber day. The last time we stood here was about the great concerns that my group had in the election of Trump as President of the United States: concerns about the future of the climate treaty, concerns about the survival of NATO and also about trade and jobs here in the Netherlands. Prime Minister Rutte, who then took the trouble to come here and who today refuses to do so, was there then as the chickens to trivialize Trump's course. There had been a democratic election and the implication was clear. That whole campaign in which Trump allowed sexual violence against women, in which he insulted disabled people and in which he demonized Muslims, we just had to forget. We had to wait and see what it would mean for the security that NATO offers us. Rutte waved away all our worries. I have to admit, I like a smile. But the state of the world also demands a serious attitude. A columnist rightly wrote this weekend: Trump asks us who we are. Take the harvest of the last few days. Trump calls NATO obsolete. He wants to lift the sanctions against Russia. He even says: we must be ready to trust Putin. He calls the Brexit something fantastic. These are all matters that go directly against the Dutch interest and the Dutch values. Does the Minister share our concerns and do she want to speak out very clearly today for our European alliance, for NATO and against lifting sanctions against Russia as long as that same Russia under Putin does not fulfil all the conditions we have imposed on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u3	Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his questions. Also from my side to all the people I haven't seen yet at least those are the people in the gallery on behalf of the entire cabinet a very happy 2017!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u4	The mood is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr Sjoerdsma refers to statements by the President elect, Trump. I also explicitly say "the president elect" because it is now his status. Mr Sjoerdsma asked how the cabinet now indicated a number of statements made very recently by Trump. Mr Koenders said a number of things about this yesterday, but let me be very clear. NATO's excess? No, that is certainly not the opinion of the Dutch Government. Are there mutual interests of the EU, the Netherlands and the United States? Sure. That is why we would very much like to table with the new administration as soon as possible to see how we can shape transatlantic cooperation. Mr Koenders responded yesterday in Nieuwsuur to a number of statements. Perhaps it is a good thing that, in response to Mr Sjoerdsma's second question, I quote the question on the position of Russia, Mr Koenders. For the sake of clarity, the proposal put forward by the President elect in the media is not on the table, but we have heard him say it is about a trade-out of the reduction of nuclear weapons by the United States and the Russians and the lifting of Russian sanctions. That's how we understood it. Mr Koenders said on behalf of the cabinet that we are in favour of reducing the number of nuclear weapons. But, of course, it is a clumsy wording to trade it out for something to which the Russian Federation has very badly violated the rules of the international game. So Mr Koenders said on behalf of the cabinet: I do not see that coming together right away. Looks like a shot in the bow to him. In my view, these are the answers to the questions put by Mr Sjoerdsma and leave nothing to be desired from the point of view of clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u6	I think it was very wise for Minister Koenders to call the statements on NATO by President Elect Trump, as Minister Ploumen calls him, "unresponsible." By the way, he didn't call it a "shot in the bow." He simply said: I find them irresponsible. The same goes for Minister Ploumen here. She makes it very clear that she does not share the tone and carelessness that Prime Minister Rutte displayed here last time, at the beginning of November. Where Rutte laughed at our concerns at the time, trivialized them and waved them away, the cabinet is now also beginning to thank us for the best wishes and slowly to see those concerns and take them seriously. It's about a lot. Fortunately, this Minister is more aware of the seriousness of the situation. I can only hope that the Prime Minister will follow that example. The Prime Minister also said: let's judge this man, he meant President Trump, on his actions, both in terms of the values that drive him and the policies he is going to pursue. And he said: if things don't go well, I will stand up for Dutch interests, both from values and from Dutch policy. I think it is now obvious that some things are not going well. So my question is: what have the Prime Minister and this cabinet done so far towards Trump to defend our climate interests, our security interests and our trade interests? This Minister says: we would like to have a meeting with the new administration as soon as possible. At the beginning of November, Prime Minister Rutte already expressed the ambition to have a much longer personal conversation with the new US President as soon as possible. That was early November, it's now mid-January.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u7	I see Mr Ten Broeke hitting his bench. Are you okay at the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u8	Are you all right, Mr Ten Broeke? The new year is hard to start for the VVD. I ask the Minister: has that conversation taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u9	The cabinet speaks with one voice; Mr Sjoerdsma knows that. Prime Minister Rutte's quotes date back over two months. I think there is now a response to what we heard yesterday. Again, this is the reaction on behalf of the cabinet. Mr Koenders was in Washington last week or the week before that. He was able to speak to leading Republicans there. He has also been able to talk to people who are going to be part of Trump's team. There hasn't been a personal conversation between our Prime Minister and President Trump. Let me just stress that he is still president elect. There will of course be a search for a first moment after the inauguration at which such a conversation is possible. In the meantime, we, the members of the cabinet, will, of course, speak to our counterparts whenever possible once they are in their seats. I therefore assume that there will still be opportunities to discuss this further on the basis of discussions that have taken place or statements or proposals made by the administration, if they are also the administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u10	Last sentence, Mr Sjoerdsma. You have 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u11	I told you, Trump's asking us who we are. I think it is extremely important that we make it clear loud and clear that we are a pro-European country, which stands for NATO and will not let Russia get away with the actions it is doing at the moment. The sanctions cannot be alleviated until Russia fulfils the conditions. I welcome the fact that the Minister says that the situation has changed for two months, that the Prime Minister's quotes must be seen in that context and that the cabinet is increasingly concerned about the forthcoming policy of President elect Trump.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u12	Of course, it's going to be a few days to talk about this, but after that it's really time, I'm afraid. We had nothing to do with Trump's election, nor with his presidency in a sense. We'll have to see how that develops. But we can do something about European unity and we must do something about it. To be honest, I am also concerned about this. A delegation from the Chamber has been in the United Kingdom in recent days. There we noticed that you saw last weekend, too, that the British slowly distance themselves from the EU in the field of foreign policy and join the Americans. They anticipate the American presidency. Does the cabinet do everything in its power and has it done everything in its power to ensure that not only the British but all the European countries are kept on board on a number of crucial dossiers? This is, of course, particularly about the maintenance of sanctions against Russia, as long as all the obligations have not been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u13	Mr Servaes and the other members of the Chamber know that Mr Koenders, as well as Mr Hennis, myself and the Prime Minister in Europe, are making good, constructive proposals on a number of dossiers which are important to the Netherlands and therefore also to the whole of Europe, which ultimately lead to solutions. We certainly intend to continue this constructive attitude, which is indeed necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Trump, Donald Trump, is of course quite right: "NATO is obsolete." NATO is outdated; of course it is quite right. NATO was designed at a time of East-West opposition and the building of opposing nuclear arsenals, when there was no room for rapprochement and cooperation. Does the Dutch government want to go along with the time and development of the past two decades, looking at Russia as a partner in security, economics and even humanitarian affairs cooperation? And should there not indeed be talk within NATO about reviewing NATO's mission towards less intervention and more cooperation? Is the government prepared to take that commitment to the NATO Council?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u15	It is only with reference to the year in which an institution was founded that it would be superfluous, that it is a bit strange. For example, we could say that this also applies to any political party such as the SP. That is not the case, because political parties are also renewing and adapting. The same applies, of course, to NATO. With regard to the specific now relevant threats, NATO's role in the fight against terrorism, for example, is also highlighted. Mr Van Bommel knows this, because this has also been discussed in the Chamber. Of course, it is important that every institution adapts to the reality of the day. This also applies mutatis mutandis to NATO. The cabinet is committed to this and considers it important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Van Bommel may make a very brief correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u17	The minister quoted me wrong. I said "deprecated." I didn't say "unneeded." That is a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u18	Recovery. I apologise to Mr Van Bommel, but the spirit of my speech remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u19	One of the things to which Mr Sjoerdsma did not refer was Trump's criticism of Merkel's asylum policy, which has had a major impact on Europe and which, to date, puts pressure on Europe and European cooperation, particularly among the population. The "wir schrijf das" policy has failed; there appears to be wir schrijf das nicht. Isn't Donald Trump right about that and is the Minister prepared to follow Trump's line that this has been a disastrous statement, with fairly disastrous consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u20	I still speak to Mr Monasch when he himself, driven out by violence, war and hunger, is on the run with his children. I do not think that it would be appropriate, as he is now saying, to make people and refugees part of a strategy that would have failed or not. Germany has received large numbers of refugees. The Netherlands has done the same. The word "challenges" is too weak for that. So I use another word for that: this certainly brings with it problems. However, there is an unprecedented humanitarian disaster. Therefore, the cabinet has regularly made additional financial contributions to improve reception in the region. This commitment has been widely shared in Europe, but the Netherlands has also taken the lead in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u21	Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Servaes have asked this Minister several times. The subject is now more urgent and more important than ever. Despite the fact that he has not yet been sworn in, an intended President of the United States has said that sanctions against Russia should be reduced or even removed. I would like this minister here to confirm that the Netherlands believes that sanctions should be maintained towards Russia, whatever happens after 20 January.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u22	The fact is that both EU and US sanctions have recently been extended, of course with the support of the Netherlands. I'm going back to the status of the president elect. There is no proposal from the United States. During the hearings, people who may be members of his government made comments which, let's just say, have a different key. I would therefore like to say to everyone: there is nothing on the table and we have nothing to talk about now. The position of the Netherlands is known. If there are any proposals, they will of course be discussed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u23	Your second supplementary question, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u24	Then the Minister will keep another door open to discuss this with that new American president. I would like to hear from the cabinet: the sanctions have indeed been extended; we have not done so for nothing. Russia does not yet comply with the Minsk Agreement. Does the Minister now confirm on behalf of the cabinet, apart from the other matters, that sanctions must be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-2.u25	Yes, at the moment there is no reason to say that the extension of those sanctions would not be good. Let me be clear about that. They have been extended and the Netherlands does not take back any of that. Unfortunately, there is no reason for this, because the situation has not improved.
