ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u1	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews and the handling of the Tax Plan package 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join with the words of welcome for the two directors of my colleague, Senator Postema, from whom I am today a lunch break away. I would like to take this opportunity to pay particular attention to their tax proposals. A good tax system is important for prosperity and well-being; we all agree on that. Tax revenues are needed to finance these collective provisions. An intelligent and social tax system also has a guiding function to correct distressing inequality, discourage harmful behaviour and promote growth and employment. We are lucky to have a well-developed tax system in the Netherlands. Moreover, much has been improved in recent years. For example, there has been a firm intervention in the mortgage interest deduction. Tax avoidance, such as via the Belgium route, and artificial interest deduction by private equity parties has also been addressed. The capital tax has been fairer since this year: small savers are being spared and people with large assets are going to pay more. The tax reduction of 5 billion in 2016 has largely benefited low and middle income and affordable childcare. For employers, the low-income advantage has made it more attractive to hire people with modest incomes. The reduction in the tax on working makes it possible for more people to find a job. However, there is still much to improve. For example, the burden of our welfare state is disproportionately heavy on people employed. The PvdA believes that the costs and benefits should be distributed fairly. We also believe that companies and wealthy people should contribute their fair share. This requires not only a tough approach to tax avoidance, but also reform of the tax system itself. Further greening of the system is urgently needed. Finally, according to the PvdA, the system should become simpler and more serviceable. This means cutting deductions and a human approach to those who end up in hopeless debt situations. I would like to reflect on the government's ambitions on these fiscal issues. Mr. Chairman. As has been said, imbalances in our tax system are a concern for my group. An analysis of paid taxes by sector by CBS gives the picture that the Dutch business location environment is very favourable. For example, taxes paid by companies fell sharply between 2001 and 2013. Moreover, tax revenues would have been missed by tax avoidance of large Dutch companies. At the same time, households are paying an increasing share of their income. What initiatives can we expect from the government to restore this distortion? The WRR shows that wealth inequality increases and is greater than income inequality. This growth in capital inequality has to do with the relationship between the growth of capital and economic growth. At the same time, a multitude of interventions have led to a further reduction in the tax on capital in the Netherlands. This is below the OECD average. The WRR therefore recommends, among other things, higher taxes on capital and a lower wage tax for people with a small income. What measures can we look forward to from the government in this area? My group supports the present box 3 proposal to use more up-to-date figures for the return on the part of the base allocated to the savings. We would like to hear from the Secretary of State what additional proposals we will have from the government in order to arrive at a box 3 tax which is more in line with the actual return. What about the relationship between tenants and property owners, my group wonders. We note that the cabinet intends to grant less subsidies to both tenants and property owners. But what vision is behind this? House owners receive less mortgage interest relief on the one hand, but the house deposit is falling on the other. I would like to receive a substantive justification for this choice from the Secretary of State. A final imbalance concerns the uneven growth that has occurred in recent years in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. My group believes that the underlying tax incentives that lead to the sharp increase in false self-employment should be addressed. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? If so, what can we expect from the government in this area? More generally, the PvdA would like to hear from the State Secretary what reforms of the tax system he considers desirable. For example, the Van Dijkhuizen Commission has advised how to achieve a simple, solid and fraud-proof tax system that contributes to improving the competitiveness of the Netherlands. What reforms can we look forward to from the government? The coalition agreement does not reassure us on this point. The approach to tax constructions and tax avoidance can count on the warm support of the PvdA. The G20 and OECD have also fought against global tax avoidance. What kind of commitment can we expect from the Secretary of State in this area? The Netherlands would still be an obstacle to tackling tax avoidance in Europe and thus still belong to the coalition of the unwilling. Can we assume that the government will make an effort to get legislation on tax avoidance off the ground quickly? I'd like a confirmation from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the current Tax Plan package 2018. We have already discussed this in writing. We thank the Secretary of State and his officials for the speed with which our written questions have been answered. However, this speed has unfortunately not always benefited the depth and persuasiveness. For example, my group has not received any figures supporting the contribution of citizens and businesses to the greening exercise. Added together, an average household pays €1.014,91 in taxes on energy consumption in 2018, excluding the consumption and network costs for the electricity and the gas itself. Since it is difficult for households, especially in a rental house, to reduce electricity and gas consumption themselves, more and more people are struggling to pay their energy bills. Companies that consume a lot of energy are paying a reduced rate and less energy taxes. If a company is considered to be an energy-intensive company and has an agreement with the government in the context of energy saving, then a refund request can be submitted to the Tax Office for paid energy taxes above 10 million kWh. We would like to ask the Secretary of State to give figures on how many citizens and how many companies contribute to the greening exercise. In addition, we would like to receive a numerical basis for the contribution of the various income groups to this. I would also like to dwell a little longer on the Government's intention to phase out the Hills scheme gradually. That measure was also in my party's election program. However, it was embedded in a vision of the housing market and accompanying policy in the area of income and wealth distribution. There is no clarity about this in the package that is now before us. We do not see any reason why the two Chambers of the States-General should carry out the phasing-out of the Hills scheme with steam and boiling water. In our opinion, the effects have not been adequately mapped out for older people with only AOW or a small pension. Finally, we do not see any measures to compensate these groups. Ultimately, the law affects about 1 million households, and it is essential for the quality of the legislative process to get a clear picture. The carelessness of this process cannot count on our support; let there be no misunderstanding about it. Why hasn't the Cabinet chosen a more careful implementation path? I would also like to make a brief comment on the Tax Exemption Act. The levying of dividends on holding cooperatives has a very limited to negligible budgetary yield. However, extending the withholding tax exemption in the dividend tax leads to a budgetary loss of 30 million. Philippe Albert, Professor of International Tax Law, writes in a commentary on the proposal: "The bill oversaw the merchant has come out better than the minister. That cannot count on the support of my group. Finally, the government with the limitation appears to be unintentionally reducing the attractiveness of frontier work by applying tax rebates to foreign taxpayers. Border workers will have to make more effort to claim the tax rebates in Dutch income tax. This is not easy for lower paid frontier workers. And this measure is not attractive to Dutch employers. We would like to ask the Secretary of State for a solution to these undesirable side effects. If necessary, I have a motion for a resolution on this, but I hope, above all, that the Secretary of State will make a commitment in this area. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My group hopes that the hand of the cabinet will also cover fiscal measures. That is the hope that we will listen with particular attention to the answers of the two govern ments present today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Much research has been done on the image of the Netherlands. The results are as predictable as they are disappointing. Cheese, tulips and windmills give the classification of the associations, with the adjective "Friendly"" in a disappointing sixth place, just above "Platform". On the negative side, the drugs dominate even above the weather. The main source of displeasure for French visitors appears to be that Dutch people speak a different language than they do. I think that feeling is mutual, too. I would not like to challenge the Minister of Finance, whose rent in this Chamber is very much welcomed by my group, and the Secretary of State, who is equally welcome, to improve this foreign image by means of a targeted counter-campaign. But if they can't resist the temptation, then the Blue Book left here two weeks ago can very well be used as basic material. It contains a serrated overview of the Dutch budget and economy in graphs and tables. Those who study it can only draw one conclusion: despite the incomprehensible language and the moderate weather today, the Netherlands is doing very well. This can be illustrated in many ways. Economic growth is 3.3% in 2017 and 2.5% in 2018. That hasn't been shown in many years. The Netherlands ranks fourth in the Global Competitiveness Index, the best score within the EU. Unemployment is falling rapidly, to 4.3% in 2018. It can hardly get much lower. Economic prosperity gives the new cabinet room to invest, and it does so in, among other things, care, education, science and defence. In addition, the burden, particularly on labour, is reduced. The Central Planning Office has calculated that each income group will improve at least 0.5% in purchasing power. In short, the Netherlands is coming out strong nine years after the crisis. So there is reason to be satisfied. But complacency does not serve the otherwise, according to the French, extremely friendly Dutch people. In the Netherlands, it can be worse.It can be the highest praise, and it can be better if it is the most widely heard policy advice. The privileged Netherlands from the Blue Book is an enclave of prosperity in a restless world. Moreover, governance is primarily forward-looking and not relentless. In my contribution, I would like to invite the two new rulers to take a look at the less and less distant abroad and at the not so distant future. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch foreign language begins in Europe. The coalition agreement devotes more praise to this than precise intentions. But it is precisely this minister who has already given a first indication of where he himself draws the European borders. I would like to invite him to clarify once again to this Chamber what powers in his broad field of activity he would like to see strengthened at European level, and which he does not. My group supports with him the need for continued economic reform within the Member States, particularly within the financial sectors. But the question is what form of European direction can best contribute to this, for example at a time when so-called asymmetric shocks affect one Member State more than another. Could a future EMF within Europe then play the role that the IMF now plays worldwide? The Minister's letters of 27 November on this subject can serve as a starting point, but leave a great deal of room, for example, where he writes about his possible future European counterpart or about the shaping of European solidarity at Member State level. Moreover, where the two letters are straight in the doctrine, they already seem to clash with views in Berlin. Finally, I would also be interested to see how the Minister and the Secretary of State look at the balance between progressive European fiscal harmonization on the one hand and long-cherished Dutch location advantages on the other. Mr. Chairman. The complex European relationship with the United Kingdom has a particular historical and economic significance for the Netherlands. Even after the interim agreement, Dutch politics and economics are at stake. The Minister's response to the written input prior to this consideration confirms that. What does the Minister now see as the most desirable outcome of the Brexit negotiations? How realistic does he consider that wish, and how does the cabinet prepare itself for less desirable scenarios? Mr. Chairman. A little further abroad, there are great powers such as China and the United States, both of which call for European attention, but which are better than they were a year ago. However, the global fundamental shortage of risk capital and excess debt, partly in the form of public debt and partly in the form of private or now privatised debt, have not disappeared. Shortening the balance sheet is and remains a demanding public and private task. Within Europe, one of the most striking examples of this is the balance sheet of the European Central Bank. Now that it appears that large-scale government bond purchases will finally be stopped soon, the follow-up question is how the European Central Bank's balance sheet reduction can be achieved without undesirable side effects. What is the Minister's view of the cyclical risks associated with this reduction and the expected increase in interest rates? And how could these be mitigated with the avoidance of monetary state funding? In the Netherlands too, the balance sheets are long, up to the level of many Dutch households where there are high mortgage debts against substantial pension rights. That combination makes our economy extra volatile. My group supports the previous mortgage reforms, although we are concerned, for example, about access to the housing market for young two-earners. We look forward to the continuation of the debate on pension reform, which should create more room to combine the gradual build-up of pension provision with the gradual phasing-out of mortgage debt. As far as the balance sheets of Dutch companies are concerned, the cabinet welcomes the start by restricting the tax preferential treatment of debt over equity. How does the Minister propose to identify the impact of the latter policy change? And how much room does he see for further tightening?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u6	A very short question. What did Mr Rinnooy Kan mean by those two-earers from two sentences ago? Did he say that they should be better favoured?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u7	I said the following about this: we are concerned about access to the housing market for young two-earners, because we have the impression that their collective earning capacity is not adequately reflected in the financial space offered to them for a mortgage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u9	I understand that this does not bring me anywhere near your own personal interest in this category, but we also consider this to be an important point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u10	Sure. It also seems to me to be a very important point. I would therefore like to ask: why should we not have the same interest in single people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u11	'Cause it's just two-earers that doubles the sum. As far as I am concerned, two-earners have reason to trust that their collective earning capacity counts in the room they get to borrow mortgage. This is only to a very limited extent the case. That is why I would like to draw particular attention to this category. Mr. Chairman. The inspection and repair of the roof of a house can best be performed between two rain showers in. We know that in the Netherlands. Now that the sun is so festive again over the Dutch economy, that is an additional reason to look back at the storms behind us from the financial crisis and to prepare ourselves for the storm that is ever going to fall again. With the Council of State, however, my group shares the concern that the cabinet will go to the brink of what prudent fiscal policy would require in the coming years. There's very little room for unforeseen setbacks. In this light, the estimated annual increase of 2% in the always understated language of the Council of State can only be qualified as "forsaken'. Now that many of the unsuspecting house have been calling for a substantial real wage increase for so long, there is a danger that an additional task will be added to the Minister's board, which will also have to finance the public employer. As soon as he defends himself again against the reproach of overly expansionary policies, I look forward to that, as with his predecessor, I would like to draw attention once again to the unnecessary complexity of the European structural deficit concept. In any case, I hope that the Netherlands will not again face a sudden deterioration of perspective during its regime. We all have very bad memories of that. But what if it does happen? The crisis behind us also brought about a global confrontation between monetary and fiscal crisis management. How does the Minister assess the relative success of both? What, for example, are we learning from the relatively rapid recovery of the American crisis? What will be the Dutch recipe if the need is restored and interest rates still fluctuate between 1% and 2%? The First Chamber usually devotes little time to the departmental budgets themselves. This makes it very tempting to draw attention here to some of its worrying aspects, such as the undeserved reduction in efficiency in education, Mr Postema spoke on this subject about the unintentional cuts in green education and the unpredicted setback for public service broadcasting. Could a remnant of under-exhaustment tempt the minister to a generous gesture at the end of the year? I hope so, but I would like to draw his attention in particular to a final, more fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u12	Thank you very much to Mr Rinnooy, too, for making the important point of the reductions in education, as his group chairman did last week, also in the light of this. I am going to look at the sharpness of the fact that we are talking about an important four-year plan here. In the D66 election programme, 3.6 billion was earmarked for the OCW ambitions, but nothing really came back for education, except for primary education and VMBO technology. This applies to the CDA for the 200 million for the lumpsum mbo, for the Christian Union for the 600 million for vouchers for workers, for learning projects, but for D66 3.6 billion. I would have expected Mr Rinnooy Kan to have taken this opportunity to express at least his sincere disappointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u13	That disappointment reeks of what I just said. Of course it is within a coalition giving and taking, in this case mainly giving, but our satisfaction with the overall package has proved to be sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u14	We are in the Netherlands giving and taking, but with 3.6 billion going into the elections and getting there with a discount of 186 million, that does not seem to me to give and take any more. That just seems to me to be giving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u15	That would be correct if the 186 million was a net effect, but it is not. D66, for example, has strongly insisted on a substantial increase in public research expenditure. We are not disappointed in that. Only the amount is even a little lower there than I might have hoped for myself. In short, it is an addition of components. Indeed, this sum of things gives rise to mixed feelings here and there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u16	I'm just counting. There are four parties at the table. Even the VVD wanted 100 million extra for education, 200 million from the CDA, 600 million from the Christian Union, and 3.6 billion in toto for the whole package from D66. And then Mr Rinnooy Kan will refer to research. We also consider this important, but we are talking about education, primary education, secondary education, MBO, HBO and universities. There are girls being banned from technical training today and later. That is why we have fought together in such a way that they cannot get in, because they do not fit in, because the resources are lacking, because numerus flexi must be set up because the universities have not enough resources to do what we have given them, namely the provision of high-tech education. That is what Mr Rinnooy Kan's party should have done in the negotiations. I just don't see the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u17	The result is ahead of us. Anyone can make their own judgment about that. I would like to wait and see if the Minister is still prepared to do something at least in the context of the efficiency reduction as a first step towards an improvement. I'll wait for that in confidence. I'm rounding up. The economic performance of a country is the product of participation and productivity. The first is developing favorably for the Netherlands, but the last, the productivity, for a long time the pearl in our crown, hardly rises to nothing in recent years. This is all the more remarkable as the mobile phone increases the personal productivity of all those present to a greater extent than at present. Even the long-awaited robotisation has not yet been reflected in productivity figures, while productivity growth in industry and services should create space to further increase the knowledge-intensity of our economy. It's necessary. In 1961, the Committee on Education, Culture, Education and the Media was set up. Does the Minister have any explanation for this stagnation and is it not time to give COP a resurrection? It is also true that in a time of high economic growth there is plenty to do at Finance. I look forward to interacting with the two new rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u18	Thank you, Mr Rinnooy Kan. I call Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u19	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the same group, I take over the relay stick and also the words of welcome that have already been expressed. My group expects that the rulers Hoekstra and Snel will act separately and together in the best tradition of the great statesmen who have preceded them in this department. Mr. President, you just recalled a solemn moment of 1917. That was indeed the Pacific, this coalition agreement may contain a piece of pacification in itself, but I am thinking of another important moment today, in 1914, namely the Amendment of the Income Tax Act under the direction of Minister....................................................................................................................................................................................................... There were other things going on back then, the First World War had broken out, but he anchored it, which is important, even for today's progressive rate in income tax, not at all controversial at that time. Anyone who takes the trouble to review the Acts of these acts, I have done so with the help of the people of documentation, and you can see that Treub has driven these legislative proposals through the First Chamber in a very eloquence and decisive manner. He was also the founder, only irony, of the dividend tax. Now to the package that is before us today. I thank the rulers for the note, the extensive reflections and the insightful figures. I would also like to thank the official staff, including for the technical briefing. Table 1, which has been submitted at the request of our group, makes it very clear what the choices made by this cabinet in relation to the Dijsselbloem budget have been. This shows that choices have been made in the coalition agreement, of which only part have been included in this package, which we very much support. Mr Rinnooy Kan has already spoken about this. It's giving and taking. There is a fiscal greening agenda, but there is also an increase in VAT and the abolition of dividend taxation. However, they will only be discussed, although they have already been discussed in detail once they have been submitted. Moreover, they have been taken into account in purchasing power effects and in reducing labour costs. I want to focus on the Hill discussion now. To put it domestically, that's what's worried a lot of people. That's why I'm focusing on it right now. There are three aspects: what is the proposal about, why is the proposal made and why is the reaction so intense? To start with the latter, my group can only explain from the fact that everything around its own house is sensitive, especially sensitive because it is part of the fiscal planning that makes people private. The biggest investment they make is usually in a house. But also from the old saying "that's its political context "who sows wind, will reap storm." Several rulers and framers, Wiegel, Van Agt, Lubbers, Kok, did not want to break the mortgage rate. Two consecutive listers, Balkenende and Rutte, later Prime Minister, have not long since called any attack unspeakable. We'll see what happened. Mr Van Rij has listed it, and it is also in the note. Of course, everything has happened with the mortgage interest deduction and its austerity. At the time, Hillen's scheme had broad support, which was logical at that time, but not the support of the SP groups, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. I have just heard Mrs Sent speak against this proposal, but I find it strange. You were against the introduction of the proposal, but you are now in favour of maintaining it. You have announced this with steam and boiling water, but this has already been discussed in great detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u20	I would like to correct it. I didn't fight the phasing-out of the Hills scheme. I have indicated that we are in favour of this, but we are not in favour of the careless handling of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u21	No one is in favour of careless treatment, Mr President. But I wouldn't have understood you correctly. I didn't think you could justify the proposal at the end of the day. What is the proposal about? In fact, it wants gradually, in 30 years, to revive the situation that existed before 2005 for the tax benefit of the Hillen scheme. There have been earlier, smaller adjustments, for example of the maximum repayment period. Finally, after the spring agreement with the constructive opposition, I would like to take a look at my colleague Ester here on the right, Mr President, a very fundamental change. Then it has been said: we will only facilitate mortgages with a deduction if there is an annuity repayment. Mr. Chairman. I think it is too simple to say in the discussion that homeowners only pay off because there is a tax regime for it. There are many private reasons to pay off: less dependence, more purchasing power or income and the use of targeted donations for redemption. These are all honorable and normal decisions that everyone in their daily lives makes when they are put before them. The Council of State, in its opinion on this legislative proposal, pointed out the wrong figure that this scheme became after 2012, after the repayment emergency came about, and could justify the phasing-out. On this basis, too, the question of legality has been answered in a positive way for my group. I would like to say to Mrs Sent that it is extremely clear and concise in terms of legislation. There is also a reduction in the household income from 0.75% to 0.6%. You will not hear anyone about this either, although one of my fellow Members has spoken about it; forgive me for not knowing who that was. In my view, it is actually an arrangement that does not quite fit in with the direction we are going in. I ask the Secretary of State: why was this chosen? Does that even fit in with the other intentions? For there is an even further austerity of the maximum rate coming. That's what the coalition agreement says. I have just had an interrupting debate with Mr Van Rij on the enormous budgetary impact of the mortgage interest deduction. You can appreciate that differently, but we are very much of it that this gradually decreases. It is also good to realise that the existing mortgage interest relief scheme has been an advantage that generations of homeowners have benefited from. This is far less true for young people. There is therefore also an insider and outsider problem. It is a bit reminiscent of the debate on the second pillar of the pension. In addition, the budget is also expected to grow. The numbers have been mapped, as far as I'm concerned, very clear. For my group, of course, this impact on the rich budget is a factor in the final weighting. I am approaching the end of my speech. I understand that the proposal is feasible. In the Lower House a motion-Snels has been adopted that calls for monitoring what unforeseen and undesirable consequences could arise for groups of people. That offers some relief for the concerns that exist. My group would like to invite the Secretary of State to provide better or good information on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u22	May I conclude from this that Senator Backer considers that motion to be superfluous? First I hear him say that the effects have been clearly mapped out and that the proposal can therefore count on his support, but then I hear him express support for the motion adopted in the House of Representatives. I see a contradiction in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u23	I get the package of legislation as it is, with the motion for a resolution Snels. I am judging those issues that have been raised in the debate, also on the other side: concerns about purchasing power and concerns about the effects on people who have not foreseen this. I think that this is a balanced whole, and I will advise my group to support it. Mr President, two other points. I'm gonna have to handle it a little bit in injury time, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u24	Mr Rinnooy Kan has spoken two minutes less, so I will let you have those minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u25	The collegiality of our group goes very far, Mr President. I didn't keep track of that for a while. It's a really good time for me. Thank you. My first point concerns two issues: the blockchain economy and the bitcoin. I started at 1914, but I still want to look ahead. These have become increasingly elements of speculation. I read there's been a digital bank robbery. I have to imagine exactly how that is going, but apparently there are assets in circulation. There are also futures traded in Chicago. Apparently it's about money. I have two questions for the cabinet. Is there any financial supervision, or are you working on it, or is that going to happen? And what are the fiscal aspects? Are these taxable assets? Does it belong under box 3? If someone was robbing a bank, you'd think there was value. And if there's value, I think the government, the state, can take advantage of it. Finally, frontier work. Mrs. Sent has already spoken about this. I have been approached in the last few days from all over the country, from both Zeeland-Flanders and Twente as well as the North, about the proposed scheme under Article V of the Other Tax Measures 2018, relating to the tax reductions. These proposals can have a huge impact on frontier work. We just talked about consumers, but now it's about frontier work. And as someone who has been working for years to remove barriers at the border, it said: Kafka lives at the border, because this goes against exactly the measures we have been working on for years. I'm interested in what's going on. Is there at least an impact assessment? Is there any insight into how this is gonna work? If not, pour before you begin. It doesn't go in until 2019. Let's just take a look at this point, because we are not convinced of this part yet. Furthermore, I look forward with interest to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u26	I would like to ask Mr Backer to confirm that he supports an investigation into the options for not having these undesirable side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u27	I have just asked for this, because I understand that it creates a new burden for foreign workers who carry out labour here. There is a great demand for this as the economy grows. It would hinder workers from participating in the Dutch labour market. There is a practical problem, there is an administrative problem and there is a net net problem. I would therefore like to hear the Secretary of State on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u28	A small addition: it creates administrative burdens not only for foreign workers, but also for Dutch employers and for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u29	Yeah, they're all connected. Mr President, I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u30	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u31	Thank you, Mr President. I look forward to this debate with the new Finance Minister, our former colleague Wopke Hoekstra, and, of course, with the new Secretary of State for Finance. Mr. Chairman. Money's just money. It's what you do with it. After all, government finances are a means of achieving social goals. For us today, it is the vision of the new cabinet of the desired developments in society and the way in which financial resources are used to realise these developments. Herman Tjeenk Willink recently said, in the VNG Magazine of 1 December, that political visions are watered down and often exchanged for financial and economic considerations. In his view, politics should constantly re-determine what the public interest is and make choices based on values derived from a vision of where society should go and what the role of government is in it. What choices does the cabinet make? A choice to give people on low incomes extra support? Reduce income inequality? Education, good care, an affordable home and a pleasant living environment for everyone? A decisive climate approach based on a deep sense of urgency? At the heart of today's debate is those choices. You can only spend a euro once. Looking at the financial proposals of the coalition agreement, my group has a strong impression that economic growth or having an attractive location environment for companies is more priority than investing in people and the environment. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, many choices cannot be justified by a large proportion of the population. At a time when confidence in politics and government is under pressure because people do not feel seen and heard, 1.4 billion is being spent on the abolition of dividend tax; money that is not available to teachers, for care, for purchasing power. Where less energy consumption and more clean energy are very urgent and in the interests of all of us, companies pay very little tax on energy compared to citizens and much less than the CO damage they cause. If we expect collective responsibility and solidarity from society, then politics must stand for it and show it in the choices it makes. Capital. The last thing that fits in is the capital paradise that the Netherlands is becoming. The Panama Papers show that 63% of American companies' profits go to tax havens. Most of them go to the Netherlands, not exactly something to be proud of. How does the cabinet feel about that? I'd like a response. This cabinet says it takes tax avoidance seriously, but insists that this should go hand in hand with further boosting tax competition. My group does not see why tackling tax avoidance, to which all the countries in Europe must cooperate, does not seem possible for this cabinet without substantially reducing the burden on capital. The Netherlands is one of the countries where there is plenty of room for tax avoidance and still seems to want to keep it behind the scenes. We would like to hear a response from the cabinet to the recent report from the NIS published on 5 December. At the same time, the cabinet coddles the capital market with, for example, the abolition of the dividend tax. Why are you doing this? I'm asking the Cabinet. International studies show that reducing this has no impact on the economy and does nothing for employment. Then who's gonna take advantage of this? Mostly foreign governments. Only in countries where no dividend tax is currently levied will the benefit reach shareholders, such as the United Kingdom and, for example, the Cayman Islands. The main aim seems to be to keep head offices of companies such as Shell and Unilever from leaving for London. But is this measure necessary? The group chairman of the VVD in the Lower House thinks it is a gamble. That's a very expensive bet. Does the cabinet really think that this is the best use of EUR 1.4 billion in structural terms? Is the Cabinet prepared to reconsider this measure? We'd like to hear a response. Another measure aimed at making the business environment more attractive is the significant reduction in corporate tax. This costs Dutch society 3.3 billion euros in tax revenues. This tax plan also extends the retention exemption, resulting in an additional EUR 30 million for recipients of equity dividends. In the light of the strong competitive position that the Netherlands already has, for example, we are in fourth place of the Global Competitiveness Index. As a region, the European Union already has the lowest corporate tax rate in the world. It seems that in the EU countries we are moving towards an average corporate tax rate of 0%, when we are going to continue this race to the bottom. Does the cabinet consider this to be a desirable development? When will the cabinet eventually be satisfied with the tax climate? We have a question about the effects of, in particular, the employment tax package, because we read in the CPB account that this package creates zero jobs. How does the cabinet assess the social profit of this large investment? I'd like a response. We are concerned about income distribution and inequality. Today's SCP report, which shows a number of positive developments, also describes the gap that is growing between rich and poor, high-skilled and low-skilled, tenants and buyers and workers and benefit recipients. Inequality can put the axe at the root of a solidarity system, while more egalitarian societies prove to be happier, safer and cleaner. The cabinet introduces new tax discs, which will make people with the lowest incomes pay nearly 0.5% more income tax and those with an income from such a €69.000 2.5% less. Why was it not chosen to spare the people in the lowest categories of income? The purchasing power of people with an income of up to 175% legal minimum wage is making the least progress, namely 0.8%. The lower and higher middle groups advance 1.3% and 1.4%. In relative numbers, therefore, inequality is undoubtedly increased. My group also sees a global development in which capital is increasingly concentrated and pay for work pays less and less. Does the government also see rising inequality and unequal distribution of capital as a problem? Does it intend to address inequalities during this period? If so, what are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u32	I do not have the illusion that we can deal with all aspects of the debate on equality, inequality, growth and divide. We have already discussed it in detail in this House, and we will undoubtedly discuss it a great deal. It is also a very important issue, no misunderstanding about it. However, I always have a point that I would also like to put to you through the President. If you compare in 25 years' time, I find it very strange that the biggest difference, namely the more than 1,100 billion of you and I've grown pension pots, is not taken away. They're just not counted. When I look at myself, the biggest asset I have is in my pension savings. Of course you get weird outcomes. If you compare in 25 years, you can't put out this huge amount of money when it comes to distribution, growth and gap? Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u33	I agree with you that assets such as pension assets often do not form part of all kinds of methodologies that now account for inequality. In itself, my group is in favour of making this comparison much more complete and taking this type of capability with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u34	Thank you. Through you, Madam President, may I also pass on these comments to the rulers? I have previously argued for the pension aspect to be included in the demand for growth in wealth and the gap in wealth. Once again, I find it incomprehensible that the institutions that are going to refuse to take this with them. I come to it now, because in 25 years' time they'll be comparing and leaving 1,100 billion in power completely out of analysis. Of course, that's how you get very weird divisions. I welcome GroenLinks' comment. There will remain differences of opinion, but at least you will get much more insight into the facts. Through you, the question also goes to the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u35	Could I comment on Mr De Grave's comments? It is precisely the lowest incomes that have, of course, built up the least pension assets. In that sense, therefore, I do not expect this to lead to a smaller inequality, but I do think it will give a more complete picture. I agree. I would like to make a comment on the VAT rate for basic necessities, which is increasing by as much as 50%. Fruit, vegetables, newspapers, buses and trains are getting more expensive. According to the Nibud, for low incomes, 27% of messages and services consist of products below the low VAT rate and 20% for high incomes. This, too, is more pronounced in low-income households. Moreover, it is an unfocused increase that makes healthy eating, such as eating fruit and vegetables, more expensive. To be honest, I find the argument of shifting taxes on labour to taxes on consumption in this case to be a bitch. My question to the cabinet is whether it has weighed this type of impact on this measure and whether it is prepared to make a comprehensive report on all possible effects of this increase in the low VAT rate. Nor can we properly follow the introduction of certain medicines below the high VAT rate. It is precisely medicines that everyone must be able to pay that are more expensive, such as medicines for acne or a bladder infection. Why do these products no longer fall within the definition of "Pharmacififififififififififififififif'? Does the Cabinet consider it justified that increasing VAT on these funds will generate an additional 12 million in revenue and that this will be borne by people who need this stuff? Then debt and poverty. 700,000 households still live in poverty and this number has increased, as the SCP said this morning. In 1999 it was 5.7% of households and now 6.6%. This is largely due to the fact that the poorest groups have been hit hardest in the last ten years. The cabinet wants to deal with problematic debt and also wants to help people with debt more effectively, including by respecting the unwound footage. We are concerned about this, because there are still bank deposits. The cabinet wants to apply the attachment-free foot in advance rather than afterwards, and is doing research on it, but is already expanding the application of simplified third-party fittings before all this is clear, as this would yield efficiency gains. That is contrary to the opinion of the Council of State. GroenLinks asks the cabinet not to implement this legislative amendment until it is certain that the attachment-free foot can be respected. I'd like a reaction to that. The person liable for tax is also not given an additional warning before enforcement measures are applied, which could then be removed from the account as quickly as possible. Misconception wins and helping people with debt more effectively falls short. People in debt get less information and less direct contact. This is contrary to the coalition agreement. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State: how are you going to solve this problem? Mr President, I come to my final point: the climate. Clock's ticking. We have less than twenty years to achieve the goals, namely to really stay below that 1.5°C to 2°C. It's going really fast. This morning, there was an environmental agency that said that in four years' time we'll have 1.5°C warming. So we want concrete action. The cabinet is taking steps, but in our opinion they are far too limited to achieve the sustainable transition. The welfare state of the fossil industry is still in full swing. This industry receives two to three times more subsidies than sustainable companies. There are tax exemptions for large consumers, greenhouse horticulture and kerosene. The G20 previously made the agreement in the middle of the crisis, in 2009 that economic recovery should go hand in hand with the reduction of fossil subsidies. But almost nothing was done about this in the Netherlands, according to the report of the Overseas Development Institute and the Climate Action Network Europe in September. The report shows that the Netherlands still supports the fossil sector with 7.6 billion in tax money. In his response to the report, the previous cabinet said: yes, but those investments we make, those subsidies, those expenditures, are also intended to stimulate innovation and strengthen the competitiveness of the Netherlands. Of course, we do not think that is a problem, but it is strange to use the means of fossil subsidies for this purpose. We are curious whether the Secretary of State, the Cabinet, agrees with us that we should now adhere to the Paris Agreement and to the G20 agreement, so that we should not use climate finance or other subsidies to support fossil fuels. Is the cabinet prepared to come up with a plan of action to reduce these fossil subsidies? I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. I would also like to mention the enormous capital of pension funds, which is still largely invested in fossil industry. Is the Secretary of State prepared to put pressure on pension funds to stop this and give the highest priority to investing in the sustainable transition? Let's not forget the banks either. GroenLinks wants a Basel IV in which bank capitalization is consistent with the Paris climate agreements. Does the Secretary of State want to be tough on this? Then there is the burden-sharing on the environment and climate. If we look closely at this coalition agreement, we can see that citizens pay almost two and a half times as much part of the climate as companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u36	I would like to explain the position of GroenLinks, which has just been expressed, that it would be desirable to put pressure on pension funds to align their investment policies with that party's environmental preferences. Apart from the question of whether these environmental preferences are attractive or not, it seems to me that the pension fund should be the highest priority in order to invest in such a way as to secure future pensions. If Mrs Vos' concerns are now justified, it should also be said in the price formation of fossil investments that, in the long term, it is not only Mrs Vos' opinion that it is desirable for her to change her policies and reduce their share in the global economy. Why, then, is it her explicit preference? Because then I can think of a lot of other conditions that you have to fear the same side effect over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u37	In itself, I agree with your reasoning that it is natural to foresee that large investments in the fossil industry are ultimately a dead end. This should also be reflected in pension fund portfolios. We can only see that this is not yet the case, that a number of large pension funds simply continue to invest in it. In my group's view, therefore, this is not happening fast enough and we are also missing a huge opportunity to support the sustainable transition with this capital. We therefore believe that it is sensible and necessary that the cabinet should also make an explicit effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u38	I repeat my doubt. I'll be brief. If this is a valid argument, I can come up with many other areas on which that would also be a valid argument. I would rather trust that the market really sends the right signal here. For I can assure you, as far as I am aware, that there are pension funds that are already well aware of the development that Mrs Vos is drawing up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u39	My view is that there are pension funds that invest in sustainable transition, but at the same time they still keep their portfolios in that fossil industry. We really want to raise that point. More pace is needed and therefore this appeal to the cabinet. Mr President, on the issue of burden-sharing between citizens and businesses in the area of climate policy. When we look at the measures taken by the cabinet, i.e. excluding the basic path, we see that in 2021 citizens will contribute EUR 943 million towards greening, while the environmental package for businesses will be EUR 411 million at that time. I'd like to hear a response from the cabinet. We also see that large electricity consumers pay almost 200 times as little tax per kilowatt hour as small consumers. It is, of course, appalling how degressive our energy tax system is already and now this shift in energy tax rates: twice as much for households as for businesses. I'd like a response from the cabinet. The Netherlands is still well behind on renewable energy. We're at 5.9% in 2016, still far from the goals we need to meet. We are very surprised that from 2020 the subsidy on solar panels will be reduced by EUR 300 million, while the agreement was, following a motion by my colleague Van Tongeren in the House of Representatives, that the arrangement would remain the same until 2023. This shows that the government is not reliable in these kinds of areas, where private individuals and institutions are committed to renewable energy, counting on a subsidy that would go through at least until 2023. I'm asking the cabinet why it's making this choice. I'd like a response. We would also like to hear why gas benefits are now below the expenditure ceiling, for the first time. This means that if policy agreements are made on lower gas extraction or if the court orders this, the loss of revenue for the Treasury must be compensated elsewhere, for example in education or in health care. We find this extremely undesirable and unnecessary and we would like to hear a reaction from the cabinet. Mr President, I hope you will allow me one final sentence. We are critical of the cabinet's investment and burden relief package. Let's be clear about that. We challenge the cabinet to assess the social effects of the financial proposals in the government agreement and to give us more insight into how it estimates that these social effects and profits are. Mr President, we would very much like to hear a response from the cabinet to our input and questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Oh, Mrs. Sent has another question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u41	I have not heard Mrs Vos talk about the gradual phasing-out of the Hills scheme. I would like to ask her whether, in her opinion, this intention is embedded in a housing market vision and in accompanying policy on income and wealth distribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u42	My group believes that the cabinet's point is right, that the Hillen Act will indeed in the long term have a huge impact on public finances. The law was, of course, also intended to encourage this, at a time when there was hardly any repayment of mortgage interest. We are simply past that, so in our view this instrument is no longer necessarily necessary. We have seen and heard in a technical briefing here in the Chamber, and in this way I can perhaps lead this question to the cabinet too: 96% of households are not affected by this intervention and, in particular, the owners of really large houses have some income losses. So, in our opinion, it is possible at the moment to make an informed choice and we tend to vote in favour of abolishing this system. But I would like to hear some more explanations from the cabinet on a number of figures, because of course you have a right point: it must fit in with a balanced policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u43	Thank you again, Mrs Vos. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. I, too, welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State to the First Chamber and look forward to inspiring debates on our public finances and fiscal policy. Mr. Chairman. For the Christian Union, the old Joseph principle is a proven means of assessing public finances. It's a simple principle that says you have to save for lean years in fat years. In recent years, my group has consistently used this as a framework for assessing public finances. Now that the economic situation has turned and our country is so much better off economically, there is once again reason to take this principle as a basis for assessing policy intentions when this new cabinet takes office. Certainly, there is a lot of good to say about the billions of relief for middle income and single-mode income families, about investment in education, research, energy transition, defence and additional expenditure on development cooperation. My group is genuinely pleased with that. But both on the revenue side and certainly on the expenditure side, the new cabinet is looking at the time of the fat cows in these unmistakably good times, a bit at the edges of budgetary policy. The Council of State, in its opinion on the New Cabinet's Start note, underlines that margins are small and budgetary uncertainties are high. I wanted to go into that a little further. In all this, it should be noted that in the years of the lean cows a lot of savings have been made on the implementation of primary public service obligations, of public services. For that, the wallet must now be drawn. Some of the public tasks we have simply lost. That certainly applies to our armed forces, who had to stop one hole with another. It is therefore a good thing that the new cabinet invests 1.5 billion in our armed forces. In doing so, we are taking a substantial step towards the NATO average, but we are not yet there after this structural injection. Supervisory and other crucial public services that play a crucial role in the orderly and orderly functioning of our society are also given financial impetus. Think of the NVWA, which is crucial for food safety, and of the Tax Administration, whose public interest is beyond doubt. The additional expenditure on education, research and infrastructure is rightly good investment. We welcome the fact that the approach to climate change and the energy transition have been given such a prominent place in the coalition agreement. We do not wish to pass on the creation violated to the next generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u45	I would have expected the spokesperson of the Christian Union to at least regret the fact that this government agreement does not say that the basic grant should come back. My group has never argued in favour of this, but yours has.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u46	Sorry, I didn't get it. That the...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u47	That the basic grant should come back in education. You have made a big point of that, and we are not seeing it now. I would expect you to say something about this in any case. Instead, the government comes with a half cut in tuition fees for first-year students, which costs 175 million, but then the increase in ten-year interest rates is such that it brings benefits of 226 million. So in this whole discussion, which was so important to you at the time, I would at least expect you to make a point about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u48	I wasn't finished either, but that aside. I just started a minute ago, but I won't do that to you. I can easily continue my speaking time with all kinds of other things that we have not realized as a Christian Union with 5 out of 76 seats. It's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u49	Mr President, if I may comment on that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u50	No, Mr. Postema, let Mr. Ester finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u51	I understand very well what you're saying, but there are many other points. We are looking at the coalition agreement as it stands. We as the First Parliamentary Group of the Christian Union do so from a certain distance. We didn't sign up for that. We did not participate in the negotiations. We judge the coalition agreement as it stands. I'm going to mention a few more of them, but today all your pain points focus on education. I find that striking. We are assessing the integral nature of the coalition agreement, which we have an opinion on, and I will be happy to share with you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u52	Of course, we don't have to weigh that up, but there's something else going on. Instead of returning the basic grant you so coveted, there is a shame for the students because there is an increase in the ten-year interest rate against the halving of tuition fees. These measures are ultimately more effective than they cost. I would also say that, in this way, there is actually a question of a financial product. Not only does it become much more difficult for young people from poor families to go to college, which has always been an important point for you, but we are also actually saying: step into higher education at reduced tuition fees and low interest rates. In the second year you will receive the full amount, namely full tuition fees and higher interest rates. That's a product the AFM would pull her eyebrows on, Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u53	I know what you're saying. I'd also be happy to raise my eyebrows, if that gives you any comfort. Apparently we did not make it in the negotiations on the coalition agreement, which includes so much more. I told you, there are other things we didn't save. Some are accompanied by pain, sometimes even deep pain, but here we have the whole to judge. This is, of course, the case for any party that speaks here today and is part of the coalition, as is the case for any policy that we are discussing here today. Mr President, I will continue with your approval. I come now to the downside, because that was actually the logic of building up my story. The downside of all this fine spending should also be mentioned. The sustainability of public finances is deteriorating, from 0.2% to -0.4% of GDP, the margins of the balance vis-à-vis the European medium-term objectives are narrow and the policy package is certainly procyclical over the first two years. This means that, as the CPB rightly points out, taxes must be increased at some point in the future or public expenditure reduced. The Council of State didn't advise for nothing to build a little more security. I would like to have a further reply from the Minister on that point. The following should be noted in order to make this picture more nuanced. Despite the sharp increase in public expenditure, gross collective expenditure is declining in relative terms. That despite the heavy burden reduction, the collective burden burden remains the same. The fact that the EMU balance remains positive throughout the cabinet period and that EMU debt is almost falling to the pre-crisis level. Our budget and expected performance thus meet European standards. At least, if the estimates come out. And that's rarely taken for granted. Hopefully the margins will be such that even in the event of a sudden change, automatic stabilisers will do their job without the need for painful intervention. And whether the margins are sufficient in our open and vital but equally volatile and vulnerable economy is the serious demand ahead. I am curious to hear the answer from the Minister of Finance, partly in the light of three international uncertainties that I will now consider: Brexit................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Mr. Chairman. First of all, Brexit. It's gonna hit our country hard, much harder than most people suspect. The Netherlands exports 40 billion euros of goods and services to the United Kingdom each year, making it the third export destination after Germany and Belgium. Many companies have no right to exist without these exports. For example, commercial companies in flowers and plants or fruit and vegetables here a few kilometers away in the Westland. The United Kingdom is of great importance to our business and the British will leave their mark. Many Dutch companies, large or small, hold the heart. The uncertainty is high and the political agreement of Friday does not change that much. Now, after all, the real work begins. The Rabobank has recently calculated that a hard Brexit Netherlands gives up to 4.25% economic growth. Until 2030, we are talking about an amount of some 35 billion euros, or €4,000 cumulatively per working Dutchman. The effects of a soft Brexit are also significant, with negative GDP growth of 3%. These economic effects are significantly greater than previous studies have shown us. Recent estimates suggest a loss of more than 70,000 Dutch jobs due to a hard Brexit. How does the Minister view the economic relations between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom after the Brexit? If a hard Brexit ends free access to the EU internal market, what bilateral possibilities are there for the Netherlands as an EU state to make agreements with the British? Have any thoughts, or perhaps even strategies, been developed within the cabinet? What are the consequences, I ask the Secretary of State, of the Brexit for the Customs Union? Is the IRS preparing for that? If so, how? Mr. Chairman. The negotiations on the Brexit bill are getting tough. My group's question to the Minister is whether this difficult progress is also due to the lack of clear exit rules within the Union and to an accepted methodology for the resolution of financial obligations. Should the European Treaty not be strengthened in these areas? I am referring to Article 50, as I give the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, I come to the risks associated with the euro area and the ECB's monetary policy. The current economic situation is perhaps a bit obscured by the risks involved here. The fact is that Member States in the euro area vary economically rather than converge. And the fact is that the ECB, with its extremely large buy-back programme, is taking great risks; they were already passing by. Ultimo 2017 has now added 2,400 billion to the balance sheet of the central bank. And from January onwards, the ECB will continue to buy up government and corporate bonds, albeit at a lower rate, but still at around 30 billion a month. DNB President Klaas Knot recently argued for a total reduction of the buy-back programme. Fortunately, the euro area is showing a strong recovery. But monetary policy does not help very much in countries that are lagging behind, there is a particular need for reform policy. Of course, the ECB is an independent institution, but how does the Minister assess the developments outlined for our country? In its opinion "The State of the euro," the Council of State also made a number of comments on the need for a more limited remit of the ECB. How does the Minister view these comments and what is his response to this opinion from the Council of State at all? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, my group is concerned about the turbulence in the Chinese financial markets. We are seeing a huge and expanding debt mountain in Chinese companies of over 165% of GDP by now. Over 500 billion in corporate bonds need to be refinanced. Market interest rates are running up rapidly and we see a tombola of loans and debts in the shadow banking circuit. These developments also increase international financial uncertainties. Hence the question: how does the Minister assess these uncertainties and how can they affect our markets? These three major uncertainties on the international playing field are the uncertain context of Dutch financial policy, which, while having the economic tide, should also relate to that context. This underlines the importance of prudent financial policy, in which the Joseph principle serves as a compass. Is that how the Minister sees it? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the tax package. In recent years, our tax system has not done any good. I have been able to point this out repeatedly in various debates. Under the influence of increasing instrumentalism, during the previous cabinet period, the principle of standing under income tax was further undermined. Fiscal instrumentalism, on the one hand, aimed at maintaining the purchasing power of low incomes with the illustration of making income dependent on the general tax rebate and, on the other hand, at promoting the participation of benefit recipients and women in the employment rate by pumping up the income-dependent labour discount and the income-dependent combination discount, on the other hand, the income tax has been in an opaque fashion. These measures combined with long-standing fiscal measures have led to greater gaps in the tax burden betweenzzp's and employees, between homeowners and tenants in the free sector, and between single and two-income families. And if the coalition parties had not intervened, the extreme gap between one and two earners would have widened further in the coming years. And if no intervention had taken place, the marginal pressure for hiringone-earners would have been even greater than the extreme pressure of no less than 161% at a gross wage of €32,000 in 2018. Thanks to the agreements in the government agreement, we are halving them to just over 80% at this level of income. About last year's general financial considerations, the income path between €22,000 and €32,000, the marginal pressure for this group of hiring earners falls by as much as 25% between 2018 and 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u54	First of all, I would like to congratulate those coalition parties that Mr Ester was just talking about; I have done so at various times. In fact, I do not believe that the gap between the single and the two-earners will be widened. I also think he indicates that in the coming years the marginal pressure will in any case be reduced. But in a single sentence he also said that next year it will be even heavier, in some cases 161%. Once that in a few years that 161% will be halved, but should something happen to that 161% in the coming year? How do you judge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u55	In any case, this is an absurd marginal pressure. You know that we are calling for a lot of attention to be paid to this, along with your party. I shall say a few more about this later. But this is something that can no longer be justified. We feel very connected with the dossier to really reduce the marginal pressure on these vulnerable groups. I shall come back to that in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u56	Mr Ester talks about capacity when it comes to taxes. We understand the concerns about the difference between one and two earners. But I would like to ask Mr Ester about the effects of the proposed tax measures of the new cabinet on income inequality. I also pointed this out in my first term. As a result of the introduction of the two-disk system, incomes go up to 0.8% and incomes rise to 1.3% and 1.4% respectively. According to Mr Ester, is that in line with the principle of carrying capacity or would he have other problems with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u57	I might need to make the story a little more sharper. In particular, the basic path would significantly reduce income disparities, but the plus of the coalition agreement would reduce them considerably. There are differences in income, but my group believes they are acceptable. It's not like they're out of control. The whole thing has been held together quite reasonably, which in itself I think is a very good performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u58	According to the CPB's calculation, income differences do increase during this cabinet period. It's about purchasing power figures as I've just shown them. Does Mr Ester have any other figures for him now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u59	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u60	Or does he agree with me that income disparities are increasing, but does he think that is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u61	No, I'll give you an explanation. You can listen to that even better than you already did. I gave an explanation for the difference between the basic path, in which they would really go up sharply, and more or less the autonomous developments, and the intervention of the coalition parties in the coalition agreement, which significantly dampens the income differences. That's my reasoning, and that's the story. I think that is a very reasonable story, which my party and my group support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u62	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u63	Finally. In my view, Mr Ester is now talking about the basic path to 2060, but the introduction of the two-disc system has made it clear that the income gap, which would otherwise have occurred later, will increase already during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u64	This happens every time in today's debate, and last week it did. I understand that, but we have to look at the whole story and the whole package and not take out one or two things, make reservations about it and forget the rest. It's about the entire coalition agreement. That is what I have just concluded, and I think it is acceptable. Mr. Chairman. Last year, during the General Financial Reviews, we talked a lot about the trajectory between €22,000 and €32,000. Between 2018 and 2021, the marginal pressure for this group of hiring earners decreases by no less than 25%. This means that this group, which has so far had virtually nothing left to do with an increase in gross wages, in these calculations of €10,000, is making more than €2,500 on this increase due to the government agreement. This group holds €3,600 extra for a gross wage of €32,000 compared to 2018. The tax burden on lower and middle incomes is falling substantially. That is a very important point for my group. Mr. Chairman. I am grateful for that. It is good that this trend of increasingly undermining the principle of capacity, which we were just talking about, is going to be broken by this coalition agreement. The package of tax measures stabilises or reduces existing gaps. With measures such as the introduction of the two-disk rate into income tax, the abolition of the transferability of the labour discount and income-dependent combination discount, the increase in the child-related budget and the care allowance for couples, the reduction of all kinds of deductions from the top rate to the basic rate, from the mortgage interest rate deduction to the self-employed deduction and the deletion of the Hillen Law, I come to speak of this so-called "tax gaps" are clearly getting smaller and the towering marginal pressure between the wml and the modal becomes considerably lower. Yeah, that's a big step in the right direction. And no, that doesn't mean we're here as far as the Christian Union is concerned. But it is good that during this cabinet period we reduce the extreme differences in taxation, which have nothing to do with carrying capacity but purely with how you earn your money, how you live and how your household situation is. Of course, I know that the Secretary of State must first and foremost implement the coalition agreement, but I hope that it will be his mission with my group to do everything possible to reduce differences in tax treatment and restore the principle of carrying on. I would appreciate it if he could take a brief look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u65	I have a question for my colleague. You say that the coalition agreement has helped to dampen the inequality in income disparities and income progress. I just looked at the CPB's figures on the coalition agreement. The highest incomes get 0.5% in this cabinet and the lowest 0.6% or vice versa. But the two middle groups that are above the lowest incomes are clearly making more progress than the group up to 175% of the minimum wage. This coalition agreement, too, simply makes the difference between the lowest income group and middle and higher incomes greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u66	It's a little unclear what you're talking about. Are you talking about income differences or purchasing power? Those are not equivalent concepts. We really need to be very precise about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u67	Well, then I'm gonna be very specific. It is indeed about the effects of the policy package on purchasing power, ex post purchasing power. The impact of the policy package is that incomes up to 175% of the statutory minimum wage increase 0.6% in purchasing power. The group above, up to 350% of the statutory minimum wage, is improving by 0.9%. The group above is up 0.8% and the highest group, above 500% of the statutory minimum wage, is improving by 0.5%. In short, the lowest incomes are in any case less favourable than the two groups above them. The Nibud's passing on on the purchasing power effects of the coalition agreement package also shows this. It is precisely the very lowest incomes, and especially those who benefit, that receive less than 2% of purchasing power in four years, while all other groups, all workers, improve between 4% and more than 6%. That's what the coalition agreement does.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u68	You started your story about income differences. That is a different economic frame from purchasing power. If you look at purchasing power, including those groups, you will see that everyone is improving. All the groups we think of each other are getting better. That is the strength of this coalition agreement for my group. One more and the other less, but it does not lead to absurd and extreme differences in purchasing power. For my group, it is very important to be able to see and appreciate this development. The Netherlands does not lose sight of the difference in purchasing power between those who have it a little better and those who have it a little less. We feel good about that. That is what makes the country strong, and that is how we should continue to do it, especially with all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u69	Mrs. Fox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u70	Maybe finally, then, Mr. Chairman. I referred to what you said, namely that the government agreement reduces the differences between the different income groups. I don't think that's the case, especially when you look at the purchasing power cards. The lowest group is significantly less advanced than the groups above it, so your assessment is not correct on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u71	The story is: you have a basic path and you have the effect of the coalition agreement. In the basic path, income disparities would have narrowed or stabilised for some groups, but thanks to the government agreement. That's the story I'm telling here. Mr. Chairman. I would have stuck to the principle of standing and the request for a brief consideration by the Secretary of State on that point. Then there is the approach to tax avoidance. The reduction of tax differences obviously also involves a firm approach to tax avoidance. The policy in recent years was simply too weak. My group agrees with the proposed policy, but paper is patient, especially on this issue. I am counting on a speedy implementation of all agreements in the OECD, EU and coalition context. I assume the urgency with the Secretary of State to tackle tax avoidance after the Panama and Paradise Papers is high. Last week we were in bad news again. Society rightly calls for vigorous action. We need to move on now. What are the Secretary of State's ambitions in these files, and what legacy does he want to leave behind? Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned the gaps in our labour market. These are large and deep: between fixed and flex, between self-employed and employee, between entrepreneur and zzpöperer. The hasty abolition of the VAR and the advent of the still incomplete Law DBA have exacerbated these problems in the labour market rather than reduced them. There is no doubt that there is a great deal of concern. In the coalition agreement, I see a more realistic approach to zzpöpers than before. They don't get thrown into one pile anymore. A great deal of attention is rightly paid to the group of vulnerable people, including through the introduction of minimum rates for the bottom of thezzp market. But still a comprehensive analysis of the zzp phenomenon is missing. We all remember very well that broke up the previous cabinet. And that was equally true for the feasibility and enforcement of the DBA Act. That has been discussed in detail in this House and my party took a clear stand on it. How will the Secretary of State handle both omissions? When does he come up with a substantive vision and the regulation of his Tax Administration, so that it has the implementation of thezzp policy in order? I like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u72	I would like to hear from Mr Ester how he assesses the tax incentives that seem to encourage false self-employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u73	To this deep, observant wisdom you must add a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u74	Think of the self-employed deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u75	That is a great challenge for every cabinet. I remember the previous cabinet did nothing about that. I think we should take steps in that file. That didn't happen now. There is a certain continuity with the previous cabinet, but in that comprehensive vision, which all the parties called for last year, yours too, that part should simply come back, with all the pluses and minuses that go with it. I'm sorry to misunderstand you, but I've got it clear on the retina. Mr. Chairman. Of course, attention should also be paid to the fact that, thanks to the unsuccessful Hoekstra motion, it has already passed several times before the proposed abolition of the Hills grant. This phase-out of the Hillen Act is part of a package of fiscal measures, including the increase in the elderly's discount and the 20% reduction in the household credit, from 0.75% to 0.6%. From the many tables exchanged during the legal process, the picture shows that the phasing out of the redemption subsidy, which has not been the main prize in communication, has a certain logic and reasonableness in fiscal terms. Calculations show that the government agreement makes 96% of property owners progress in purchasing power. And their purchasing power is increasing even more than that of tenants: 1.4% versus 0.8% per year. That which began in 2005 as a discharge grant of 250 million has now become a structural cost of 1.4 billion, and after the reduction of the equity margin in the government agreement of still 1.1 billion. That which in 2005, the time of the redemption-free mortgages, was already an expensive write-off subsidy, turned into an extremely expensive and no longer effective tax issue after the mandatory repayment in 2013 became a reality for new cases. After all, redemption is now the tax standard and this does not include redemption subsidies. In doing so, the Hills Act has lost a bit of its rationality. Nevertheless, my group is pleased that 30 years have been allocated to phasing out, also given the commotion surrounding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u76	I can well follow Mr Ester's reasoning, where he says that redemption is the new norm. That's about the new cases. At the same time, he notes that the Hillen Act did indeed have its effect during the period of its introduction, in particular in the case of non-refundable mortgages. Nevertheless, the new standard does not apply to existing old cases. Of these, by far the largest bulk, 340 billion, consists of redemption-free mortgages. Aren't you afraid that by abolishing the Hills Act, there will be no incentive for that group to speed up redemption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u77	I understand what Mr Van Rij is saying. By the way, I wasn't finished building up my reasoning; so you'll give me a little more time. These are also the consequences of redefining a tax standard. That leads to effects. As a politician, we have agreed very widely to demand repayment and to preach only that tax. There is therefore a price tag that is not always attractive, but these are the consequences of a fundamental change to a very basic tax standard. I don't see how you're getting out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u78	I understand the standard from 2013. That has really been a divorce for new cases and old cases. The question therefore focuses on those old cases which, when the Hills Act is abolished, no longer have a fiscal incentive to resolve. Why would you do that if it was just taxation? Mr Backer pointed out that there could also be other arguments for speeding up the resolution. So basically, we have two standards. We have standard one for the new cases and we have standard two for the old cases. This is actually the result of the introduction of the new legislation in 2013. So you haven't convinced me yet, but I've disturbed you in your construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u79	You are most welcome to do so. I don't see how that's gonna be any different. The same anomaly also applies to the introduction of the Hills Act. At that time there were also interventions in fiscal relations and there were also older cases. That is an issue, Mr President, and you know that much better than I do, it is very difficult to solve the problem of taxation. That's what you always have with the redefining of a fundamental standard. That is true now, and so was the introduction of the Hills Act itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u80	Finally, Mr. Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u81	I will stick to the final point. I agree with you that there is a huge accumulation in complexity. But by taking one thing out of it and focusing on it, of course, we are not yet solving the systematic as such. Because then we create the next anomaly. Anyway, I said what I wanted to say about this in the first term and I await the Government's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u82	Can Mr Ester explain why he considers it desirable that the purchasing power of property owners should increase more than the purchasing power of tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u83	Yes. I would very much like to defend that if I had mentioned it. I just mentioned the following in my speech. There's a group we're forgetting. This house requires a lot of attention for a earner, but we forget the single earner who lives not in his own house but in a social rental house. Those differences in purchasing power are much greater there. My commitment was precisely to draw attention to that group. So you see, Mr President, we need to formulate carefully. I'm gonna watch that even more closely than I've planned. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more sentences on the Hills of the Law. With the abolition of the Hill grant we go back to the situation as it was between 1893 and 2005. And although historical and substantive in the light of the Hills Act was an anomaly, the abolition raises questions about the erratic behaviour of the government at something as important as its own house. And if you take into account the fact that homeowners have nicely paid off their mortgage and during their working lives have ensured that they have little living expenses and little debt left over in their old age, then I understand that there is anger. How does the Secretary of State look back on how the government has communicated with the citizen? What lessons does he take? Being right and right are two different qualities. In all of this, the concept of capital adequacy is at stake in this debate. The own house is to live in and it is wealth. Although it is not a freely absorbable asset, such as savings, it is capital. The question therefore arises as to how the Secretary of State looks at this. What is the destination of the home in the tax system leading to the phasing out of the Hills Act? What fiscal endgame does the Secretary of State have in mind? That also has a bit to do with Mr Van Rij's point just now. The Council of State also made this point. Would the Secretary of State care to explain this? (NL) Mr President, in conclusion, a few other points. My group is enthusiastic about the box 3 measures. They are a big step in the right direction. Hopefully, they will be the upshot to what we all want: taxing real returns. What timetable does the Secretary of State have in mind? Of course, there is no government agreement, there is no millions of notes and there is no tax plan incorporating the Christian Union's electoral programme in its entirety. There are measures that make my group frown the eyebrows. For example, the abolition of the dividend tax was not our first priority, we discussed it in detail last week and today. The assessment of the impact of this measure varies. I would therefore urge the Secretary of State to take firm action to support the legislative proposal and to set the expected revenues clearly at its cost. My group really needs a very robust reasoning. Overall, this Tax Plan has considerable advantages: the tax burden principle increases, taxes become greener and tax avoidance is tackled much more firmly. The tax plan is thus our starting point that labour must become cheaper and taxing our environment more expensive, and thus an agenda that requires determination and consistency. Mr. Chairman. All in all, there is a challenging financial and fiscal agenda. I hope that the Minister and the Secretary of State will work on this with passion. We wish them God's blessing on their labor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u85	Thank you, Mr President. It was 100 years ago today that the Constitution was amended, which allowed women to be elected to parliament. The struggle for women's rights in the years prior to 1917 was often directed towards deaf ears, similar to the way in which other very essential subjects are now faced with difficulty. The cabinet formulated the motto of the coalition agreement "Confidence in the future." My group believes that such a theme can only be successfully implemented with the genuinely desired addition of more women in the future. We sincerely hope that the cabinet will contribute to this. Mr. Chairman. Today we have the General Financial Reviews in the presence of a highly esteemed ex-colleague, who we know as someone with an agile mind, with the heart in the right place and who is distraught with dogma. That's a lot of hope! There is also a Secretary of State who has recently been a member of a party that wants to introduce a meat tax. That, too, gives hope. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet faces a number of difficult tasks. The budgetary surplus in 2017 was recently estimated at 0.4% of GDP, but there is a significant shortfall. This year we are looking at a budget deficit of 32%, with the budget surplus of 0.4% completely falling into disrepute. On 2 August 2017, all the natural raw materials that our planet can produce in a year were gone. The rest of this year, so from 2 August onwards, we are borrowing fresh water, food and fossil fuel from our planet, or, in fact, from future generations, which, because of our consumption pattern, we are denying the right to live in the same degree of prosperity as we are used to. Today it was announced that the Dutch emit three times more CO than the average world citizen. Strangely enough, we have regulations to warn citizens in this country that borrowing costs money, but citizens are not in any way warned against the consequences of over-consumption. Just last year, the Prime Minister said, "We need to buy a new car, or a new house." Then we can beat the CPB together. Beating the Central Planning Bureau can never be an end in itself, can it? If defeat means doing better than predictions, let's consider defeating the Plan Bureau for the Environment. In fact, it is remarkable that money has taken such a central position in our life and in our state system that we do spend a day clearing up for the General Financial Reviews, but hardly pay attention to the General Ecological Reviews, while we know that our ecology is downright miserable, much worse than the state balance. Recently German research has shown that 75% of insects have disappeared. We know that in our own country only 15% of the original biodiversity is left. We have a huge challenge in terms of reducing greenhouse gases, not only because we have signed it, but also because the judge has ordered us to do so. Mr. Chairman. I told you, Earth Overshoot Day, the day Mother Earth's supply closet was exhausted, fell six days earlier this year than last year. The predation we commit causes the weakest groups on this planet to feel so threatened in their survival that they have no other option but to flee. It is poignant to note that the parties in this house who are least inclined to give shelter to refugees are at the same time the least inclined to remove the causes of the flow of refugees. So we behave as if we have several globes at our disposal, creating a competition between the various groups of inhabitants of our planet, and a competition between man and nature. But those who rule with the narrowest imaginable majority, on the basis of a closed government agreement based on exchanged ideals that are often very far apart, have little room. If we were to implement the Paris climate agreement exactly, and that worldwide, Earth Overshoot Day would move in the right direction for 89 days. In the Netherlands, we could further stimulate wind energy generation. We could get a lot more households to put solar panels on the roof if we were to maintain the netting of self-generated and used electricity. This can be a very profitable investment if the government does not make that investment uncertain. Mr Vos pointed out this for a while. The sale of hybrid motor vehicles with a plug has completely collapsed because the government has made their purchase very unattractive. The cars purchased with a subsidy are exported massively at the moment. In 2015, 215 plug-in hybrids were exported, mostly from the lease. In 2016 there were 923 and in 2017 already 2,564. It is expected that this number will grow very strongly in 2018 when the large plug-in leasing fleet enters the market. Can the Minister state whether he agrees with my group that this is an enormous disinvestment of a development made possible by public money? When lease drivers switch massively to motor vehicles with internal combustion engines that are entirely dependent on fossil fuels, will this not result in more difficult environmental targets being met? Can the Minister share the effects of this with the Chamber? And can he also give an insight into the effects on operators of, for example, charging infrastructure, which, on the basis of a balanced government policy, could have expected to continue the development that the government started about seven years ago in the field of promoting electric mobility?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u86	Mr Koffeman talks about plug cars purchased with public money which are now being exported. Indeed, there has been much less tax on those cars. That's true. Should I now understand him so that, in his view, it is a disadvantage for the country that these cars disappear and are sold abroad? Is there, in addition to the ecological aspect, a financial disadvantage in his view, because these cars are sold?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u87	It is, of course, at first instance that we have all encouraged the acquisition of these instruments because of the ecological effect, let us put that in the forefront for a moment. I therefore consider your point of order to be important. In addition, for example, the infrastructure of electric charging stations was also based on the purchase of electric motor vehicles. At a time when all these car drivers are being bought with subsidies in Hungary, Russia and Poland, it is very difficult that, for example, the operators of these loading posts do not know where they stand either. Those people who were driving those electric cars are switching to a diesel car or a petrol car because they are now more attractive. That's not very convenient. One might think that after five years of use the electric lease cars put into service could have done a very good job on the private market in the Netherlands than in Hungary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u88	Mr Koffeman continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u89	Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared and able to come up with a plan of action to prevent or at least discourage the export of used hybrid and electric car dynamometers? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. By actively focusing on the sustainability of our energy, we can take great steps to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement we have committed ourselves to. We can do that through our diet. Earth Overshoot Day can move in the right direction for 11 days by choosing what we eat. Of course, the supermarkets are buzzing out. We buy and eat what we want. We throw away an average of 50 kilos of usable food per person every year, knowing that a billion people go to bed every night hungry. We could take great steps by eating more plant-based, locally produced and unprocessed food. Then it doesn't help if the government increases VAT on fruit and vegetables. The government shudders in stimulating sustainable behavioural change. Why is that, anyway? Why is there this outdated laisser-faire thinking, which only increases the problems we face in the financial sense, but certainly also in the ecological sense? This week, The Guardian and De Morgen reported on an investigation by the wealth bank Coller Capital, which states that the imposition of a meat tax within five to ten years will be inevitable, both because of the climate effects and the health effects as well as the impact on the world food situation. The UK Investment Network FAIRR, which has a combined portfolio of $4 trillion, says that animal protein is in the same direction as other harmful products such as alcohol, tobacco and sugar intended to reduce their consumption. Serious plans for a meat tax in parliament have already been discussed in Germany, Denmark and Sweden. Last year, the Chinese government announced measures to reduce meat consumption by 45%. Just last week, the Prime Minister indicated in this house that no instrument would be unused to achieve the climate objectives, and then added in one breath that no meat tax would be introduced. Can the Minister explain what this curious taboo might have to do with, especially since two of the four government parties, namely D66 and Christian Union, have a levy on meat in their electoral programme? Is it so unspeakable for the other two government parties that the Prime Minister can say without further ado that they are not going to do so anyway? What is against charging the social costs associated with the production or consumption of any product in accordance with the polluter pays principle? According to the Prime Minister, there would be no support for such a levy, but according to Chatham House's 2015 investigation, such a levy is much more digestible for consumers than governments are inclined to think. Can the Minister state what the government is basing itself on when it says that such a tax could not count on social support? Can the Minister also indicate how much public support can be expected from the abolition of dividend taxation and the abolition of the Hills Act? Has that been investigated? Is the Minister prepared to share the results of that investigation with the Chamber? If no research has been carried out, on which basis is the assumption that there would be no social support for taxes on the most environmentally damaging parts of our consumption pattern and that there would be social support for measures that have not been included in any electoral programme, such as the abolition of dividend taxation? Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few examples of missed opportunities, which should or could be cashed quickly. Can the Minister indicate, per missed opportunity, whether he is prepared to take advantage of that opportunity in the short term, now that the coalition agreement leaves room for that? The increase in the tax on landfill and incineration of waste was easy and at limited cost feasible by 2018, but its introduction is postponed until 2019. Why is that? The introduction of a minimum CO price in the electricity sector does not start until 2020. Why isn't that before? Unfair subsidies and exemptions to the fossil industry remain fully maintained. This amounts to an amount of up to €14,000 per minute. Is there any social support for that? Then I come to the tax on noisy and polluting aircraft. The alternative to this tax, namely a flight tax, will not be introduced until 2021, but only after other measures have failed. Can the Secretary of State indicate precisely what measures must have failed when? What gives him the feeling that this cabinet could introduce a flight tax after its own departure, which is scheduled for 17 March 2021 at the latest? Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement states that the polluter will pay. That should be visible in the 2018 Tax Plan, but that is not it or hardly it. Can the Minister explain that? Where the Cabinet applies the polluter-pays principle in stages, a general increase in VAT comes completely out of the sky. This is disruptive and leads to market failures, as suggested by the Plan Bureau for the Environment, because non-polluting sectors are also affected. Does the Secretary of State agree with the Planbureau's reasoning for the Environment? I'd like a response. Why should we increase VAT on healthy products to the same extent as VAT on unhealthy, polluting products that have major social disadvantages? Mr. Chairman. In addition to obtaining revenue, the steering of behaviour is also a consequence of taxation. Managing behaviour is essential to tackle climate change. What good is money if the ice sheet melts? If the Minister and the Secretary of State were to be driven home tonight in their new service car, it would at least be nice if they had the positive feeling that today it was more than money and that they could have contributed to meeting the ecological debt to future generations. My group awaits the answer with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u90	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u91	Thank you, Madam President. It's nice to be talking to two rulers today. I'm going to put them both in my text more or less speakingly. Mr. Chairman. Very occasionally I feel a bit like that woman from that remarkable likeness of the Bible, Luke 18. You know, about that judge who's nothing and no one's awe. Then a widow comes to her justice, but that judge just doesn't listen. But the widow keeps pushing me over and over again. At last the judge says: "Because this widow is difficult for me, I will do her justice, lest she come at last, and break my head. A nice resemblance! Of course, we know that parables are aimed at the kingdom of God, but as that woman feels, that's how it feels to me today when I speak for the umpteenth time about the position of one earner. However, I do, also because last week at the General Political Reviews I confronted the Prime Minister with the fact that the open door of the Trêveszaal had been closed by the State Secretary to my colleague Dijkgraaf in the Second Chamber. The Prime Minister then assured me that this was a misunderstanding and that the Secretary of State had spoken with Mr Dijkgraaf to rectify it. Would that indeed happen? That is why I will come back to it today, but first a few general matters. Madam President. "Confidence in the future" is the motto of the government. Very nice, but I already argued last week in the General Political Reviews that trust must be earned first. That's a nice picture in the Financial Reviews: earned trust. When we read the coalition agreement, we see that the new government has a lot of confidence in the economy. There is no doubt that the economy is growing, but is this growth stable? On what facts does the government base confidence in the growth of the economy? What does the government do if growth is disappointing? Where does the government see the first gaps in policy? Or the other way around: what do we do with the extra money that becomes available when growth gets stronger? In other words, how does the new Finance Minister see the picture, particularly in relation to the debt burden on our country? In other words: is the public debt falling sufficiently, and is it falling fast enough? In the previous crisis, we saw that we had to cut back hard in bad times. But you actually have to make cuts in good times, so that as a government you have money to invest when things get worse. If you look at the budgeted debt at the end of the cabinet period, it is still higher than the debt at the beginning of the major crisis that started in 2008. Would it not be wiser to keep the hand on the cut a little more, so that we can better cope with the next crisis, which undoubtedly comes once? Madam President. In addition to these general questions, my group also has questions about a few separate laws, such as the abolition of the VAT agricultural regime and the Hillen Act. We owe this decoupling to our former colleague Senator Hoekstra. Take the abolition of VAT on agriculture. It was once promised that the funds associated with the agricultural regime would be invested in agriculture. Now we see that they are being used to close a gap in EZK's budget. Why does the cabinet not honour the commitment to agriculture? That's not reliable, is it? Last week, in the General Political Reviews, I specifically asked why there would be so little confidence among citizens. Among other things, the Prime Minister indicated that this was because many citizens had to contribute to the crisis. Now that the crisis is over, they shouldn't feel like they're getting caught again, so I interpreted his words. In this context, my question is: how do the Minister and the Secretary of State feel about farmers by abolishing the VAT agricultural regime? That question also insists, and perhaps much more so, on the discussion on the so-called 'law Hills'. After all, on the basis of this policy, people have made their choices for the future. Why did the Cabinet decide to change the rules on the way? How does the Minister see a reliable government, which creates confidence among the citizens who have followed the legislator in good faith? In these two examples, I would like to raise the more general question of how the government can do justice to future slogan "confidence'. Madam President. No one likes paying more taxes, not even on consumption. The increase in VAT from 6% to 9% is therefore not a fine measure. The underlying documents show that there are a number of measures against it, which would not affect the purchasing power of the average Dutchman. Whether this applies to every Dutchman is, of course, still the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u92	I believe that Mr Schalk is moving on to another subject. He spoke for a moment about Hillen, whose name is on everyone's lips, these days. Mr Schalk attached this to confidence, but could I ask him, as co-legislator, that we should be real against the citizen and taxpayer in the prospect that we are setting out? There are elections. Normally, they are there every four years and sometimes more often. There are cabinets. There are government agreements in which policy changes can be agreed. That is what has happened now. This has the effect of changing certain legislation. I think it is difficult to put the question of trust at the heart of policy changes. They need to be properly introduced and there are all kinds of preconditions. I'd like to hear your opinion on that, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u93	This is a nice question. When it comes to trust, it is precisely that the citizens do not feel attacked. You could say that this is not necessary, because 200 days have been discussed about a government agreement and so one could know that something was going to happen. But, of course, the substance was not known. That's one. Two. Many citizens have made the choice in the years beyond, knowing that the Hills Act helped them. If they were to repay their mortgage, they would be better off. Now the Hills Act is repealed, with the result that there is a different way of working out what they anticipated. I understand that a new cabinet will come up with new policies, but do so only for new cases, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u94	I do not want to talk again about purchasing power, but about the more fundamental issue. I grew up in a village where you had two kinds of farmers. One invested his own money and the other borrowed it from the Rabo. They both had a very strong reason for that. One just wanted to be boss in his own house and didn't want his parlour to be from the bank. The other took a slightly higher level of tax risk or a slightly higher level of risk in its business. Isn't that a very personal consideration of how you want your business? You know this sector even better than I do. I think that should also be part of this discussion. These are own considerations in which taxation plays a role. But anyone who plans risky tax has made their own choice. Also, rely a little on the own strength of those who make decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u95	Yes, but if the government points out a route to citizens, then you can't say: they made that choice themselves. No, the government first offers the opportunity to speed up redemption. If she suddenly withdraws that measure, I think it is a different case from that of those two farms. I don't see the analogy in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u96	Finally, Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u97	Maybe that's because the conclusion that's drawn from it would be another one. My conclusion would be that it is ultimately their own consideration, in which taxation plays a role. You say the government points out a route. No, there is a tax system in which regulations can be used. There was a tax bonus scheme, you could almost say. Something is now being taken away that has been an advantage for a long time. You can plan on that, but you can plan differently. Moreover, the scheme will only enter into force in 2019, just as concretely, if this Chamber would agree to it. So there is also some anticipation time possible. And then it happens in steps of 30 years; thank you to Mr De Grave for this addition. You're talking about "shut up," Mr. Schalk, but it goes in small steps of 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u98	That's all true. Meanwhile, it is a fact that something different happened here than in the case of building that stable. One of them says, "Listen, I have money, and I put it in." That's a risk you're taking. The other says, "I can borrow it." It's possible. But if the Rabobank, which you borrowed from, suddenly changes the rules of the game, you don't find that to be reliable either. It may happen, but all right, we should address it, if it does? I think the government can do that, too, and I do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u99	Very briefly. I am not talking so much about the Hills Act, but here I agree with Mr Backer, also from my own experience of taxation. You never really do well in tax discussions. Let me give you one example. I have a good friend who was very angry when the Hills Act was passed. Why? He had just filed a deposit for 15 years two years before. He said, "Shit, if I'd known, I would have used that money to pay off the house." Couldn't you have reported that that would be changed unexpectedly? In other words, my experience is that you rarely do well. As a member of the First Chamber, I think it is very important that it does not apply retroactively and that if you do things like this, you also give people the opportunity to get used to transition periods. A transitional period of 30 years will, of course, give people the opportunity to give their effects a place in their own spending patterns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u100	If it had been my friend who used the word "shit" I would have said, "that's less nice." Anyway, that was his choice. But I'm so curious what Mr. De Grave replied to that exclamation of "Wouldn't you have told me in advance"? from his friend. The question was: how can the rules suddenly be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u101	Because sometimes rules change in a democracy. Society has a debate. So that's what I said to him: it's really annoying. I would almost use a word that is not parliamentary; I have already said it. There's got to be room for consideration. There are many things in a human's life that you can't all know in advance. You've got responsibilities and you've got a lot to consider. We, as legislators, have the task of doing this carefully. As I said, it should not apply retroactively and you should give people the opportunity to adapt their income patterns to it. Then a transition period of 30 years is very neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u102	When it comes to those 30 years, I say: indeed, that is a long journey. On the other hand, however, I have a bit of a feeling that we are now getting to the very heart of the question I asked the Prime Minister last week. I asked him: how could it be that a lot of citizens think that the government is simply not reliable? Then you can say: listen, we have to make policies. I understand that, too. But how are we supposed to say that to the citizens? That's what I asked the Prime Minister. He mentioned a few other things; I tried to push it through. Then he said: listen, these citizens have always felt that they have had to pay for the crisis, and we have to avoid, in the new situation, feeling that they have to pay again, because that means they lose confidence. I feel the same way about this law. I think a number of citizens will say: "It doesn't start until 2019 and it takes up to 30 years, but it still feels like I was allowed to do something that made fiscally as attractive as possible. Now I've done it, and now it's being punished. It feels like it, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u103	Mr President, may I make one final point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u104	Yes, but very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u105	Yes, very brief and very fundamental. It also began with the point of confidence and the role that we ourselves have in this. That's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Schalk, because I know the SGP so well. Well, there's a pretty good plan-damaging procedure for a reason. There's a legitimate government act with damages for a reason. It may be that the government makes decisions to the detriment of a citizen. There's an arrangement for that. This means in itself that it can and is not therefore unreliable. That's just the point I spoke to you about. I do not think we should contribute to this either. Finally, a report from the Social and Cultural Planning Office on citizens and trust in the government just came out. That doesn't look so bad at all. I hope that Mr Schalk will be able to draw strength from that. That was more a comment than a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u106	It is not a question; it is a comment. Proceed with your speech, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I was talking about the VAT increase from 6% to 9%. That's not a nice measure. The underlying documents show that there are a number of measures to this, but it is doubtful whether every Dutchman will benefit sufficiently from it. And does the government foresee that the reduction to 8% or 7% is reason enough if the economic tide becomes more favourable? Or would the cabinet rather work towards reducing the burden on labour, which is still far too high? Madam President. My group has long been in favour of a revision of the tax system. The so-called flat tax is a good way, at least if it is properly applied. This means that introducing the flat fee will only help if you start with a clean slate. But that didn't happen, so the effect of the flat tax is marginal. Does the Minister agree with my group that the effect of flat tax is actually lost if you make all kinds of tax reductions dependent on income? Madam President. Then there is a point of the SGP Group, namely the gap between one and two earners. I already indicated I'd come back to that. But let me start with a compliment. In view of today's debate and the words already devoted to it, I have the impression that, in particular, the Christian Union and the CDA have been working to ensure that there is an equal increase in purchasing power for all. One wonders, of course, why has this new government chosen a balanced purchasing power for one and two earners? According to my group, there is only one answer: equal treatment. But if purchasing power had to be equal in terms of equal treatment and fair sharing, then it is strange that that reasoning was not applied to the gap between one and two earners. I have already mentioned it in the general political considerations. In the 2016 Tax Plan, there was up to five times as much tax for one earner. The 2017 Tax Plan involved six times as much tax for one earner, and in the 2018 Tax Plan that was still up to six times as much tax. Of course you can't. That was also found in the Lower House. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union put a motion to it, aimed at reporting. Surprisingly, it was dissuaded by the Secretary of State. Nevertheless, the House of Representatives adopted the motion. Then there was the Dijkgraaf motion, which advocated identifying feasible options to reduce the substantial differences between one and two earners. This motion was also dissuaded by the Secretary of State, despite the commitment of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance that the door to the Trêveszaal is wide open. That was the moment I was talking about: then that door clicked shut. I hope today the Secretary of State agrees that this was indeed a misunderstanding. By the way, the Dijkgraaf motion was rejected. Surprisingly, there was support from a party that did not agree with this Chamber in the past, namely GroenLinks. A new sound; that's nice. But there was a vote against by the entire coalition, so there was also a vote against by CDA and Christian Union. And frankly, I had some understanding for that. These two parties in the Lower House did not need this motion at all. For them, of course, it was known that there was a much firmer motion in the First Chamber in this area, with their signature underneath. Support for the Dijkgraaf motion would then be a weakening of their previous support for the Schalk motion, the operative part of which is: Coming up with proposals, so that's more than coming up with options. This motion was supported by a majority in this Chamber at the time. I remember getting excited just before the start of the second term. The now waved Senator Wobke Hoekstra came to me and said: Peter, I'd like to take a closer look at that motion. And I still see him walking back there, to a room, together with Senator Niek Jan van Kesteren, still working at VNO-NCW at the time. After some time, Wobke came back and said, "Okay, Peter, we can back this up." A sigh of enlightenment, President, you understand. May the groups of PVV, SP, OSF, 50PLUS, PvdD, GL perhaps by now also, CDA, ChristianUnion and SGP expect their wish to be worked on? I look forward with extraordinary interest to the Government's response, especially now that the same government's answers show that there is a wider problem, including for the single people. There is another matter I have questions about. It follows a discussion that took place last year. At that time, I demonstrated on the basis of a table from the Ministry what problems there are for a family with an income of €22,000. If a breadwinner works up and earns more €10,000 gross per year, in 2017 it only earned €355 net. So €10,000 gross per year, €1 net per day. At my request, we received new government tables. First only a table of 2021, showing an improvement. Mr Ester has just mentioned this. I thought it was okay that he named this pain point. Today, however, we are not talking about 2021, but about 2018. That table was sent to us in the second instance. Turns out it's gotten worse. A salary increase of €22,000 to €32,000 will only net up €69, from €10,000. Rounded up, that's 19 cents a day. Or rather, the tax burden on this route is 99.3%. Last year, following a motion, the government promised an investigation on this point. This investigation, carried out by the leaders of VVD and PvdA, only provided an analysis, and no solution. In fact, today it appears that it has become more serious for next year at least. How do the rulers of CDA and D66 view this? Surely we cannot keep saying: wait for 2021? It's about trust in the future today. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, during the General Political Reviews on the declaration of government, indicated that we would like to welcome this cabinet. That is what the government can expect from us: constructive and governmental. In other words, where possible, we will support good laws, but we also expect the government to support good points of the SGP, so that I no longer have to feel like that woman with that unjust judge. I am therefore very curious about the reaction of the rulers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr Schalk. I call Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u109	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS also welcomes the two rulers. Mr De Grave called it a home game for the Minister. I'll add: you can win a home game, but if the game is bad, you can lose your followers too. The abolition of the Hills Act is, in the eyes of 50PLUS, the first major blunder of this new cabinet. Where foreign investors and multinationals receive a gift of more than one billion through the unnecessary abolition of the dividend tax, those who had hoped for a carefree old age and who had made a great financial effort to repay their mortgage will be punished with total impunity. None of the government's four electoral programmes included this abolition. But now it becomes reality by magic, in a very short time frame that does not allow for careful treatment. It seems as if the State Secretary of Finance has been placed on this post because of his reputation to be able to chase things through at a rapid pace. While the current coalition parties are talking about the great gap between the Hague political world and the ordinary citizen, who no longer has any confidence in the ruling politicians, they continue to ignore what lives among the voters. More than two thirds of voters are opposed to abolishing the Hills Act and its discharge. The same applies to the VVD and CDA voters. No party receives 30% support. Only 18% of voters support the government on this point. What we are charging the CDA and the Christian Union in particular is that people with low incomes are the victims. Around 40,000 households have a small pension and no assets in box 3. And 10% of households with Hillen deductions have a combined income of less than €15,000. The government does far too little for these groups and waltzes over them. The largest senior organisation in the Netherlands, KBO-PCOB, writes about the fifties, sixties and seventies today, who have paid off their mortgage nicely in decades and instead of a reward now get a fine which their members feel to be very unwise and very unjust. Does the Cabinet know how this gets to the ordinary people? I quote from a letter from Mrs Ria Babonnick, who wrote to me two weeks ago: 'As far as I am concerned personally, the situation is that I have not been on holiday for the last 20 years and spent the holiday money on the repayment of my house, so that after my retirement I would have lower living expenses and would be able to live more easily off my AOW and pension. Now that this government-advised planning is being changed, my financial future is going to go to waste and I will also have to live a very economical life for the rest of my life. The government shows itself to be unreliable and makes it impossible for citizens to plan their financial future. Thus this letterwriter. Can the government explain why it doesn't care about the electorate's opinion? Any compensation to the lower income groups in particular was rejected by this cabinet. The 5OPLUS-Second MP Martin van Rooijen has tabled three amendments, inter alia to avoid existing cases. In vain. Van Rooijen has stated that in his long-standing political and social career he cannot remember a tax bill that has been drawn up so carelessly. Former party leader and VVD member Hans Wiegel quotes in his Telegraph column the nuanced daily Trouw that speaks about ordinary power politics. Hans Wiegel hopes that the First Chamber will assume its own responsibility and will look at the quality and care of the legislation. He calls on the Senate and his VVD group to vote against, but we fear that Mrs Jorritsma has exceptionally large deaf ears. Should the voters then give up any hope and confidence if the First Chamber were to adopt the abolition? 5OPLUS believes that citizens should be able to express their views on this evidence of an unreliable government. It is good to look again at the article by Leo Stevens today in Het Financieele Dagblad, which uses the same words. Therefore, 5OPLUS members will support the initiative and seek cooperation with older people's organisations and all bodies and organisations directly or indirectly affected by the effects of the abolition of the Hills Act in order to arrive at an advisory referendum on this payoff. The gap between what The Hague says and what people are experiencing is growing, even when it comes to purchasing power. Tax policy has been and is mainly directed at workers, even now that the economy is attracting and financial space is being created. Many elderly people have had to understand that they had to turn in often disproportionately when there was an economic crisis. But now that the headwind has turned, pensioners are once again lagging behind. The purchasing power of workers increased by 32% between 2000 and 2015, while the purchasing power of pensioners did not increase. In 2021, at the end of the planned government period, the purchasing power of the workers increased to over 43% according to the annex to the government agreement and that of pensioners by over 4%. A disproportionate proportion of the burden relief goes to the workers and to the companies and not to the people who have often worked hard on their whole lives since they were young. Many pensioners will have little or no benefit from rising prosperity. Their pensions are again not rising because of artificially low interest rates and not indexing, while everything is rising. The Nibud has calculated that in 2018 AOWpensioners with a supplementary pension higher than €10,000 are declining 1.5%. That is when pensions have not been indexed for years. As many as 16.5% of pensions have been left behind by ABP since 2009. People with a small pension are gonna have a hard time. Because on 1 January, on balance, the AOW benefit increases little; less than €7 gross for married persons, while everything becomes much more expensive. The tax on the energy note alone will increase by almost €70, according to the calculation of the Association Eigen Huis in 2018, and this increase will rise to more than €260 in 2021. Add to this the rising rents, the rising care premium and the increase in the VAT rate from 6% to 9% for the immediate necessities. Who else thinks there's gonna be a lot of elderly people under their overcrowded wallet? If ordinary Dutch people are going to have to pay an additional 2.6 billion for their basic necessities, then it is no different whether some groups have to chop it up disproportionately hard. Mr. Chairman. In this context, we strongly support the Barth motion. We also fear the social consequences in many areas of the forthcoming VAT increase. In particular, we do not exclude a repetition of the situation in the shrinkage and border areas when excise duties on diesel and petrol were increased without taking into account what is paid across borders. In Germany, the lowest rate for basic and vital products is 7%. In Belgium, the low rate is 6%. We too fear that the cultural sector, including bookshops and newspapers, which are already struggling, will once again suffer the consequences. The motion co-signed by 5OPLUS calls for an analysis of the social consequences of the VAT increase, but we also ask the government whether it wants to keep its finger on the pulse in time if there are direct adverse effects. Then 5OPLUS has another question about the power efficiency in box 3. The coalition agreement states on page 35 that the return is connected more quickly to the actual return on savings.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u110	I would like to return to the subject on which Mr Nagel has spent so much time, namely the Hillen scheme. I understand very well his constituents, because 58% of those using the scheme are over 65 years of age. Where on average 25% of taxpayers have assets in box 3, that percentage is 63% for those using the Hillen scheme. That's 924,000 households. So they also have a power in box 3. Of more than a third, this amounts to more than €100,000. This is due to the image you're sketching. What's your comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u111	The point, Mr Backer, is, of course, through the President, that there are groups that have reached an additional disadvantage. We must protect these groups, without looking at other neighbourhoods or other cities. We stand up for those people. You, as a parliamentarians, should do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u112	I do. I referred in my contribution to the motion-Snels in the Lower House, which says: monitor those groups. So that could be exactly the groups you are talking about. The picture you're sketching is extremely gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u113	It's two-way. If you have read The Financial Daily this morning, Mr President, and Mr Backer too, you know that it says that this is being rushed through unnecessarily quickly, that care is lacking and that it would not be a financial disaster if we delayed it for a year. Stevens cites a battery of examples of cases that make it complicated for individuals and for the Tax Administration. All these aspects play a role. I thought that a number of Members of Parliament, in particular, were always watching for that kind of care. It's missing, so you can have the knife cut both ways. It is unfair for some groups, but it is also very careless once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u114	Finally, Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u115	It is always difficult to refer to an article that may not have been read by everyone, but Professor Stevens has been very critical of tax legislation in the Netherlands for a long time. He has reasons for that, by the way. I read the play. But I will go into the four case positions on which the cabinet wrote in the note: a couple with AOW and €10,000, without a supplementary pension... I will not name them all. In all four cases, they take other measures after effect, we should add and not isolate Hillen all advance in income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u116	You don't need a calculator to see that as of January 1st, the AOW for married persons for one person doesn't raise a gross €7. Pensions are not indexed. Do you really think that people on the street think it's gonna make them feel better when you see what's going up at the same time? That's the practice. In fact, I think Mr Backer is the gap between the electorate and The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u117	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u118	Mr Backer, you have become the chasm of flesh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u119	I seem to be, Mr. Chairman. I will then receive this compliment from Mr Nagel. Thank you, I'll tell him. You usually spend part of your speaking time on us. That's what you've been able to do for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u120	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. We ask the government to keep its finger on the pulse in time if there are any direct adverse effects in the border regions. Then 5OPLUS has another question about the power efficiency in box 3. The coalition agreement states that it will be connected more quickly to the real return on savings. Can we predict when this will happen? For the abolition of the Hills Act has shown that the Secretary of State can act quickly. And can we assume that if the banks give a return of 0.1%, then the new tax legislation will really be based on the actual return and that this expropriation tax will indeed disappear? Finally, a question about the Tax Administration. A lot has gone wrong in recent times and there is a suspicion that there is considerable delay in this service. What are the findings of the new rulers on Finance? How did they experience the situation when they arrived? What measures are they taking to put things right? Mr President, I will conclude, because we are out of speaking time. I'd like to wait for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u121	Thank you, Mr Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, welcome the two rulers. We haven't heard them yet, but without that, it's fun having them here. In the meantime, there's a lot going on. There is a new government with plans that need to be implemented to a large extent, but some of them have already been worked out and are under discussion. And there is a European Commission, which also has big plans and is questioning its intentions with the Union and the euro area right now. As far as I am concerned, the most important starting point, whether it be taxation or institutional arrangements, remains, as far as I am concerned, as follows: keep it as simple as possible, as clear as possible, as transparent as possible. There has also been a lot of work done in the last few weeks. The European Window for VAT on e-commerce is a European agreement. And, more importantly for us, a list of 17 countries that are non-cooperative in tax matters, plus 47 countries that have promised to do something about their tax legislation, including Curaçao and Aruba. I have two questions about that right away. Why does Commissioner Moscovici say so explicitly that this is a list of the Member States rather than the Commission? I was surprised at that. What's that supposed to mean? My second question relates to the plans to abolish the dividend tax. Is this list suitable for later use to continue to levy dividend tax on payments to these now classified jurisdictions and also to tax transferred interest and royalty payments? I'm gonna stay with the EU for a while, Mr. President. Commission President Juncker is right to stress that the euro is the currency unit of the European Union and that all Member States except Denmark, and now the United Kingdom, are obliged to strive for the introduction of the euro. He has a point if he wants to help and encourage countries to be in a position to do so. How does the Minister feel about that? It could cost something. As far as I am concerned, Juncker is also right in rejecting a separate eurogroup budget and a eurogroup parliament for the same reason, because such an extra circus does not benefit clarity. But he is also right, as far as I am concerned, when he calls for a permanent president of the euro group, who is part of the Commission. This will certainly help to clarify the situation, because it explicitly embeds the euro area, which has so far been sidetracked, in the EU structure and thus makes it more accessible to the European Parliament, i.e. more democratic. Does the Minister agree? Returning to those countries which are now designated as tax havens, we must also be aware that European countries are also accused of too bold regulations or deals. It is a good thing that the Netherlands, having always said that we are definitely not a tax haven, is now really going to take measures to make letterbox companies a little more difficult to live here. This could result in additional taxation for those countries which are more entitled to it, and it could force companies to make a greater contribution to the benefit of the general public. But to reach the latter, pressure remains on all tax havens, whether they want to call themselves that or not, necessary. By the way, whether the Netherlands really loses its bad name with these measures is also the question. When is it now clear that the Netherlands does not compete unfairly through all kinds of regulations? Probably only when we agree with the European common tax base, i.e. the CCCTB. That is precisely what has to be done from the Netherlands. Try to contribute to as fair a basis as possible, but please acknowledge the great advantage of such a common basis for the transparency of taxation. This does not affect our own sovereignty as long as we are allowed to set our own rates. As far as these rates are concerned, it is to be hoped that we will all be able to withstand the pressure to compete in the race to the bottom. The plans for lowering corporate tax rates prove that we are still fully involved in this. The Dutch competitive position does not seem to me to be such that we are forced to take such measures. We are not Latvia or Lithuania. So I don't think it's a good idea. Why would a minister want to defend this? Systematically, I think this is worse than the dividend tax plans, although the background is of course similar. By the way, by the European Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which is actually my representatives in the European Parliament, it has been suggested that in the Brexit negotiations with the United Kingdom, attempts could be made to get them to refrain from a rigorous reduction in the tax on profits. That would, of course, make it easier for us to do the same. How does the Minister feel about that? What is a good idea is to simplify the tariff structure of income tax, towards a flatrate with top rates. What bothers me is that the general tax rebate is being reduced and that other reductions are being increased. It is precisely this general tax rebate that could and should ensure that a basic amount necessary for maintenance remains exempt from taxation. This also requires that this tax should remain transferable between tax partners. I have already agreed with Mr Schalk when he complains about the fact that the gap between single-earner families and two-earner families is far from being closed, and I agree with Mr De Grave that the solution in our system must be sought in order to level the marginal pressure. We're gonna take a step there with a flatrate. That helps. In addition, more elements play a role in this. Of course, the choice of tax rebates and the way in which we allow them to work in taxation also play a role in this system. The simplification of the tariff structure and the reduction of income tax are achieved by increasing the low rate of VAT from 6% to 9%. There is also a motion on the table. Extending the scope for spending through the other measures does not seem to be a major problem in itself, and it is a step towards a single VAT rate. Only for businesses in the border region, of course, it represents a very marked deterioration in competitiveness, although it was not very flourishing. There is a long-standing problem really getting worse. How does the Minister see that? I agree with Mr Rinnooy that, if something goes wrong here and if there is any research to be done here, there is a basis for looking at it again. Mr President, I have two more or less separate points to make. The FNV specifically asks that the AOW age should not increase further than 67 years. The FNV is certainly not the only one asking for this, and I must say that I expressly agree with this question. Further increasing the age of AOW will cause problems for many people in the so-called heavy professions, but also in education, for example. It's better half-way than completely lost. This morning someone else used that expression, by the way, not about it. My final point: in the other measures, I found the exemption from property tax for socio-cultural, charitable and cultural institutions in the BES islands. That seems to me to be an extremely good measure. More needs to be done there, but at least this will help. Mr President, I would like to look forward to the response of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u123	Thank you, Mr Ten Hoeve. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm just gonna take a look at the rulers. Can you agree to a suspension until 5:00 or do you need a little more time? 5:15? 5:15 p.m. Before I suspend, I'll report that the finance, BDO and EUZA committee meetings start all 15 minutes later, respectively at 4.25 p.m., 4.30 p.m. and 4.45 p.m. in Commission Room 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u124	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews and the handling of the Tax Plan package 2018. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Being a Minister of Finance is a great privilege and also a great responsibility. Mr President, you will remember: first I was sitting there on your left, later I was sitting there on your right. And now I'm standing right here in front of you. I am well aware that I no longer do this as an equal in this house, but only as a humble servant of the Crown, who is, moreover, only a guest here. I would like to thank Members for all the words of appreciation they have already expressed, but the Secretary of State and I very much realize that we will have to earn it here on the substance. I very much look forward to working with all Members. Because no matter how different my role is, I'd like to go on with one thing. That is to enter into dialogue with all the political groups. Some have also asked specific questions about this. I'll deal with it in detail in a moment. Because no matter how different the views are, I think that all here, and certainly the Secretary of State and I, are motivated to do what is right for the country. That is precisely why we want to continue to engage in dialogue, as we explicitly exchanged with the House of Representatives. In terms of style, I will often choose a strict stance in Parliament and also in Europe, because it is my role, my job and my job to watch over our country's treasury and long-term financial interests. Perhaps I should add that paradoxically, in an economically good time, this task is more difficult than in a crisis, as I often find the margins of the Council of Ministers. The starting point of this cabinet is good. The economy is growing, employment is picking up, unemployment is falling and public finances are back on track. As Minister of Finance, you can expect me to monitor the good starting position of public finances. As far as I am concerned, this task has at least two dimensions. Firstly, I attach great importance to the principle of trendary fiscal policy. That is part of the budgetary policy that this cabinet has adopted. I will make every effort to ensure that this is respected. I shall now turn to the comments made by Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Ester, who spoke about the edges of what was still sensible, if I paraphrase them properly. Secondly, I see it as my task to look at the efficiency of public finances. We have already discussed it briefly in the standing committee. I would like to do so by using the public funds that we have at our disposal for the Netherlands in the best possible way, for the Netherlands and for all residents. I am also standing here to do that on their behalf and to monitor that process. I will build up my speech, answering the various questions that have been put to me as carefully as possible, along the lines of the coalition agreement and divide it into five blocks. I shall begin with the budgetary policy that the cabinet will pursue and the effects of government policy on public finances. Then I will go into the very wide range of investments that the cabinet intends to make in the collective provision with extra money for security, defence, education, care and so many of those issues that have already come along. I say in the direction of Mr De Grave that I will also go into his suggestions in that block and not where he might expect it, namely in Section 1, where it could also be placed. Thirdly, I refer to the reforms that the Cabinet intends to undertake to make important systems such as the labour market, the housing market and the pension system future-proof and also to address climate change. Fourthly, in general terms, I am addressing the planned reforms of the tax system, reducing the burden and focusing on a better locational environment. Then we will undoubtedly come to the issue of dividend taxation. By the way, I will leave the tax details to the Secretary of State. Fifth, and finally, I am addressing international policy. Then I will also take with me the questions that have been asked about economic and monetary union, the possible permanent chairman of the euro group and also my previous letter. I will try to do justice to all the questions in my answer, but also to take some urgent action, because, in addition to the financial considerations, of course, we also deal with the Tax Plan and the Hills Act. My secretary of state is very used to working till deep into the night, but perhaps I should try to keep life somewhat manageable by being brief where that can be done. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with block one, public finances. It will be no surprise, certainly not looking at the text of the government agreement, that the government is pursuing a trendary fiscal policy. This means, on the one hand, that the maximum level of public expenditure for the entire cabinet period is fixed in advance and that the policy development of tax and premium revenues is agreed in advance. I don't think any of the members will be surprised. It is good to stress once again that we are doing so, because it ensures rest and manageability over the full cabinet period. On the other hand, real income can move with the economy. A question has just been asked about the framework. I will go into that as well. This is the principle of automatic stabilisation. Conjunctural fluctuations are reflected in the budget balance. In this context, I would immediately like to address a question that I believe the CDA has asked, namely to reflect on the inclusion of interest costs below the expenditure ceiling. The principle is that expenditure taxing the government balance is also part of the expenditure ceiling. This contributes to the manageability of public finances and benefits integrated decision-making. It will also be no surprise that high interest charges are not free and that they are therefore reflected in the balance and debt. In my view, it is wise to involve those who are failing in the interest payments in the decision-making process, because then you can make an overall assessment. This is being dealt with by placing them under the expenditure ceiling. By the way, that choice has changed quite a bit over time. They've been under it once, then they've been taken out, and now they've been brought back underneath. Something similar, but mirror imagery is going on with the gas benefits. I think that's what Mrs. Vos asked for. It might be good to stress that the Study Group on Budget Space has actually looked at: how can you make the Dutch economy less procyclical, what should you do? That is where it was thought that the gas benefits should be placed. This also enables politics to make an overall assessment. By the way, there's no free money. That won't be a surprise. So if you don't frame them, you still have to pay the bill, but that money runs into the balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u126	Of course there is no free money, but so far that sort of thing has indeed fallen short, which then came up. Our question is whether it can not be extremely difficult. For example, when the judge says that the gas tap needs to be closed even further, it will cost money and you will be forced to cut back elsewhere. That could be quite a difficult situation. That is the essence of my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u127	I understand that question. The thought has been that you need to be able to decide what can really affect you. The mirror is also the case; perhaps that will appeal to Mrs Vos more. For example, the WW and the assistance have been taken out, because they are very much in line with the economic situation. I myself think it would be very wise to accommodate the gas benefits, because that gives the Cabinet and, moreover, the Chambers the opportunity to make an overall assessment. She is, of course, right that if you look at the developments in Groningen, the best thing could be, let me say with caution that a minus comes out and that you have to do something. I'll share that with her. Mr. Chairman. In total, the cabinet will give the economy a boost of as much as EUR 14.5 billion in the coming years. Of this, 6.6 billion in the form of a reduction in charges comes back to households and businesses. In addition, the cabinet invests about 8 billion in the Dutch economy and public services. At the same time, we must also pay attention to European budgetary rules and the sustainability of public finances. The measures in the coalition agreement I am committed to saying this again are leading to a budget surplus of 0.3% in 2021. As is now foreseen, it has already been recalled here that figures such as those you have on paper at the beginning of a cabinet period almost never materialize exactly, and this time probably will not be otherwise, the government debt will fall to 47% over this period. The government balance and sustainability are significantly better in the baseline path in 2021 than is currently the case and so we are also building buffers for the future. But with the impetus given by the coalition agreement and the broad social and political desire to invest in society, we come to the limits of the budgetary area, as some have already pointed out. I therefore see it as an important task of my own to commit the other members of the cabinet not only to the expenditure they have signed up for, but also to commit them to the subject of trendary budgetary policy. In my view, that is where the paradox I have just referred to comes from. In good times, it's sometimes harder to point that out than in bad times. I will also answer a few specific questions in this regard. The Christian Union has reached a delicate point with a reference to King Joseph, Mr Van Rij has said it, and Mr Rinnooy Kan has also spoken extensively about the opinion of the Council of State. The Labour Party has also asked for this. The government agrees with the importance of this sustainable public finances, but at the same time we are not sending it on the balance as such. Other indicators, such as the development of the balance and debt, are also important. We're talking about the whole picture. We are therefore seeking to maintain a budget surplus in this cabinet period. It is good that this surplus is well below the 60% standard. In doing so, we are also largely complying with these European budgetary rules. Mr Schalk asked explicitly whether that would be enough and referred, among other things, to the 42% figure, which is actually the pre-crisis figure. It is perhaps good to emphasise that if we manage to do what I have just described, we will also come to a good point historically. Last week, I happened to have the Commission's autumn forecast figures ready, in which it also looks back on the past few years. Then you see that the Netherlands was 54% in the period 1998-2002, 47% in 2003-2007 and 60% in 2008-2012. Then, of course, we went over it. If we manage to do what we intend to do, I think we will reach a very acceptable point with that 47%. Then there is the question of how we are dealing with the economic growth that is both co-operative and disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u128	The Minister says that we would be on an acceptable figure at 47%, but that is still worse than the crisis. My question was whether, just now that we're doing well, we should start saving extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u129	That, especially for me in this role, is, of course, a delicate point. I think it is real to say that as a country and politically we want two things at the same time. It has been a broad political wish, also looking at all election programmes, and also a broad societal desire to invest in a wide range of sectors. Many also have the real impression that we are dealing with late maintenance. I am thinking of defence, education, care and a lot more. At the same time, many say with Mr Schalk: let us also ensure sustainable and sustainable public finances. We're trying to bring them together. Could it have been more beautiful than 47% and I secretly hope we're even lower? The answer is, I think, yes twice, but I think that with this balance we really do justice to the combination of the two wishes that exist both in society and in politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u130	I would like to offer the Minister a chance to do so in what he says, perhaps he will, but then I should also like to find a connection with what has happened to the Netherlands in recent years, especially with the way in which the Netherlands ended up in the crisis, stuck in it for a long time and finally came out quite triumphant. One of the Members of this Chamber has said something about this too, and I believe that Mr Koffeman has said something about it. He rightly pointed out that the Netherlands has taken a long time and is still lagging behind compared to its European neighbours. The question then is what does the Minister think he can learn from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u131	That is a very fair question. Mr Koffeman has put it, but I think Mr Rinnooy too. I think it starts with the recognition that we have a very volatile economy in the Netherlands. It was not so long ago, I think for a year or two, that many, including in this house, were gloomy about what the economic climate seemed like for the Netherlands. Pretty soon after that, there was a big tax payoff, of 5 billion. It was then presented to the previous cabinet here, and successfully. If you look at all these European states now, you can see that the Netherlands has suddenly become the best boy in the classroom, at least where the surplus is concerned. Not as far as the 60% standard is concerned, but as far as the budget surplus is concerned. So that happened incredibly fast. In the same way it has also gone in the wrong direction very quickly. This has to do with a very open, small and internationally oriented economy. Of course, Mr Rinnooy Kan's question and Mr Koffeman's question is quite right: what can you learn from it? It is a question that I have asked myself, also for accepting this role. It's not a question with an easy answer. Because question three economists, as far as I'm concerned, three very sensible economists, what to do and you get four different answers. This also applies par excellence to this issue. I think you can see that the Netherlands is now in a good position and that we are in a very good position when compared to abroad. Then what are you gonna do with those economists' opinions, looking back? When I look at that and take it into account how we stand today, and I am committed to doing so with great caution, I say to Mr Rinnooy Kan.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I'm very careful again. You can then ask whether this was also true for all burdens and their timing. That is where I think the answer is getting a little more diffuse. When I look back, as I say at the same time, I remember how much the question was asked in this house at the time of the Kunduz agreement to what extent the triple A rating of the Netherlands would go down if we did not take action at that time. The decisions taken are therefore also taken in a very specific context. And to make the puzzle even more complicated: I think many have long thought that this crisis had the characteristics of previous crises. But some economists then said: this is something new, this is a balance sheet crisis. That's another kind of crisis that requires a different kind of prescription. Then the chaos in looking back is about complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u132	I think Mr Rinnooy Kan is asking a very important question, because of course it is not excluded that, given the fact that the financial sector is still not safe in every respect, such a crisis is emerging again, including at European level, and that the Netherlands is once again dealing with it. Maybe I can make one suggestion for what we could have done otherwise. That is that we could have allowed the automatic stabilisers to work completely during the previous cabinet period, so in line with the trend in budgetary policy. At a time when tax revenues are disappointing and benefits need to be spent more, you can leave that entirely in the EMU balance, and you do not always have to focus on European standards in that respect when the crisis is so deep and the recession as a result is very long. Because that's what happened. There has been a recession in the Netherlands and then there has been a new dip and another dip, partly due to the cuts. I would like to hear a response from the Minister to that lesson, which at least has attracted many economists.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u133	I think that is a very fair question from Mr Van Apeldoorn. That is, by the way, a bridge to the answer I just gave to Mrs Vos. Because what is in the report of the Study Group on Budget Space, which was shared with the Second and First Chambers in the summer of 2016: let's get those benefits out. So not the policy changes, but the amount as such. This means that expenditure is no longer covered by the frameworks but, of course, in the balance. In the current economic situation, of course, this effect is much smaller than it was a few years ago. But that's exactly the logic. The Study Group on Budget Space has been looking for what you could do to a ensure that politics can decide as best as possible on the things that can be influenced but b also ensure that procyclicality is slowed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u134	Do I now taste from the Minister's words that he says that, with or without the knowledge and wisdom of today, the policy after the 2008 crisis has in any case been too procyclical in retrospect, that we need to learn from it and that in a future crisis we will have to try not to pursue a procyclical but anticyclical fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u135	I have learned here that you always have to be very careful when your own words are contained in a question and whether you agree with it. I am therefore committed to continuing to talk about my own words as much as possible. I have tried to respond to Mr Rinnooy's challenge, namely: what can you learn? I have also tried to keep the glasses of great caution, because it is extremely risky to suggest that if you had done something else, it would have ended better. I really think that a lot of things that the Netherlands has done were inevitable. At the same time, the Study Group on Budgets wondered whether, given the great pro-cyclicality of the Dutch economy, we could do things to promote stability. That is what this answer has come out of, among other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u136	I fully recognise how complicated this issue is; everyone here, I think. The Minister is quite right to say that three economists have four opinions, but I still have one specific question. Is it conceivable, or perhaps has it been tried, that the Central Planning Office should carry out a retrospective calculation of the outcome of an alternative policy scenario over the past few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u137	I have not seen such a report or the outcome of such a study. If there was, I suspect I would have seen it, but I'm not quite sure. I also suspect what Mr Rinnooy's next question could be: if it is not there, could we get it? Maybe I can come back to that question with a good answer in second term. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Van Apeldoorn's point about more investment. Many Members have asked for attention to be paid to the government's sanding along the edges of what is still responsible when it comes to the 14.5 billion and expenditure. Mr Van Apeldoorn has actually said: could we not have opted for more investment and a larger deficit, for example by increasing the burden on large assets? I think we'll come back to that two-stroke after all. We actually want to try two things. We are trying to do justice to the social priorities in a large number of policy areas, and I am going to say a little bit more about this, but we think it is important, at this very moment in the economic cycle, to keep money in the pocket for worse weather at a later time, by focusing on small surpluses. It's always a complicated consideration, but I think the cabinet is doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u138	In fact, I would have thought that the Minister would have shot the ball that the SP is putting on the spot, just to stay in football terms for a while. Because if Mr Van Apeldoorn was just arguing for a policy where you have to spend when things are bad, then the consequence is that Mr Van Apeldoorn is now arguing, now that we are doing well, that we are spending less? So I actually thought you'd join the SP as an ally now. I'm sure you would have done that if you had been a spokesperson. Perhaps you are reluctant as a minister; I will do it for you! My image is that he says: in bad times we have to make the stabilizers work. I understood that correctly from Mr Van Apeldoorn's words, didn't I? But then the consequence is: in good times, be very careful about spending. I just never hear that from the SP. Maybe you can still reflect on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u139	One of the urgent opinions I have received from the officials is: do not try to win the debate. That is the sensible advice I am trying to stick to. If I had been a spokesperson, I could have noticed that classical keynesians always want to spend when things are bad and if things are going well think that there is money to spend. But I'm not a member of this house anymore, so that's speculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u140	Mr Van Apeldoorn on this point, once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u141	We can talk about this for a long time, but I'll be brief. There are good arguments to say: we are out of the crisis but the recovery is still fragile, we are still catching up on public investment and there is still a long way to go to overheating the economy, so we can rest assured that budgetary space, also given the historically low interest rates and low public debt. But even if we stick to a budget surplus for the years to come, as an apple for thirst, for that certainty that the Minister is talking about, then my previous question was also: can we not have the SP in there also have concrete plans for more public investment not through debt financing but by, for example, taxing large assets? The Minister referred to that for a moment, but he didn't really go along with that idea. So there are other ways to Rome when it comes to more public investment. This does not have to be done through a smaller budget surplus or a budget deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u142	Sure, there's more roads. I think the cabinet has made a very well-balanced choice. It has decided not to take any steps in the direction which Mr Van Apeldoorn is likely to describe as going far enough. The cabinet doesn't intend to do that anymore either. I would also like to add one more thing. The question is whether this type of measure will then have the desired effect on the economy. Nevertheless, Mr De Grave has enthused you with regard to whether you are cautious enough or not, it might be good to share in this house that in the figures of the planning agency we have taken, for example, the Brexit is not taken into account. This means that the account of the Brexit is at the top of these figures; it is not in it. Then we are again at the edges of Mr Koffeman and Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u143	Shortly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u144	Yes, very briefly. According to the Minister, the plans of the cabinet did not go far enough to the taste of the SP. That is undoubtedly true, but my question is then: what plans does the cabinet have when it comes to tackling wealth inequality? 'Cause I didn't hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u145	Let me say a few words about what we are all doing in the field of taxation, and perhaps that is mainly up to the Secretary of State. I'll continue with block two: investing for everyone. The cabinet invests in the facilities that belong to all of us. Everyone must be assured of a safe, caring and close society. That is why we invest, among other things, in security, in care, in defence, in education, in addition to many other areas. These sectors also need support, appreciation and space for the professionals working in them. Let me mention a few things specifically. Education in the first place; several spokesmen have already mentioned it. The cabinet has made a structural EUR 1.6 billion extra available for education, research, culture and media. Good education and good teachers lay the foundations for every child and therefore primary education receives more than 700 million per year. The cabinet also pays extra money to strengthen early and early school education, i.e. 170 million, for a reduction in tuition fees for first-year students, another 175 million, and for basic and applied research, two times 200 million, in addition to a number of smaller posts. Mr. Postema asked about the discount on education. We were called to undo that discount. That's where it's important to be specific. On the OCW budget, this cabinet found an uncovered mission for structurally 183 million euros from the previous cabinet. In the years before 2021 it was much higher. In the coming years, the cabinet will return a large part of this task, in addition to the investments I have just mentioned. Structurally, OCW does cover the mission itself, namely by making a saving of 183 million. The Minister of OCW and the Minister for BVOM I always have to practice on the abbreviation "Want to make this saving outside the primary education process" and they are working on it. We cannot and will not undo it, because it is important that the budget of OCW is also made final.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u146	I think it is important to remind the Minister specifically of the passage in the budget of OCW. On page 120, in Table 91, paragraph 1, it is stated that the decision on the fulfilment of that mission is left to the next cabinet and decided to do so after consultation with the forming parties. That is not something you have just received and with which you have to do something at once or not, no, that really happened in consultation with the forming parties. And then we find it a little crazy that there is always talk of investment in education, which is always confused with research, culture, monuments and so on, while the structural reduction of 183 million remains.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u147	If I may say so, I find the spokesman of the Labour Party somewhat gloomy. Because that amount of 1.6 billion is a structural investment that this cabinet makes. Of course, you can say: yes, of the 1.6 billion, some of it does not benefit education either. That's true. You can of course say: 400 million of them go left or right to innovation. But there is also 700 million going to primary education, in two different categories, and there are still a large number of amounts I have just mentioned. Look, if you ask me if there are any parties, individuals or institutes in the Netherlands that would have liked more, I will say: no doubt. At the same time: if you look at the broader investment agenda of the cabinet and you link it to the desire to pay close attention to the budget, then I think that this is a fair but also very substantial and sensible investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u148	I am absolutely not in favour of creating a contradiction or generating a conflict with the Minister. I can very well imagine that, in this integrality of the multiannual OCW budget, it would be quite possible to take another look at that and not to include this 183 million in education, where certain sectors in education are not receiving anything at all in terms of education, but in terms of the reduction of 183 million. Isn't it a good point, also given many opinions here in this house, to take a good look at that task again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u149	It is of course very tempting, especially when the atmosphere is good, to say yes by mistake. But the answer is no. I really want to point out that, in 2021, on balance, including the savings to which Mr Postema refers, and in which I say that some of that is still going, there is still considerable investment by this cabinet in education and research in the budget of OCW, namely 1.7 billion. That amount is an amount including that target.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u150	Finally, Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u151	The Minister makes it a little sharper, I do. All of a sudden, he's talking about 1.7 billion. So apparently we've already won 100 million. That's what we get, because it's 1.58 and I know something else, if we take the figures exactly. But what is more important to me is that this afternoon's training in the technical sphere must be reduced by this efficiency reduction. And at the same time, you're gonna keep shielding at 1.6 billion, which is a whole different perspective. This concerns the total OCW budget for 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u152	Yes. Mr Postema is, of course, right: it is important to be explicit about the numbers. Look, that 1.6 is the amount that is structurally done by this cabinet in this coalition agreement. That's the structural amount. The amount that we will be raising in 2021 is 1.977 billion, which is still considerably more. I think, especially if you look at this cabinet period, the cabinet is making a really big investment. Yeah, it's true that some of that money goes to other things, too. But take primary education: that's where 700 million goes. I think that this is a very defensive and very sensible investment. At the same time, that is also a very substantial amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u153	Maybe I'll finish up on this. I hear what the Minister says. If he describes this as an unfortunate legacy of a previous cabinet, of which the PvdA was a member, then I can also understand that. However, I still object to the word "efficiency reduction'. Because that suggests that there would be a culpable lack of efficiency here on the education side, and that is certainly not true, or at least not proven. So at least I ask him to be more careful in the naming of these kinds of interventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u154	I'd love to. I should perhaps point out that I had to sign the coalition agreement not only con amore, but also in its entirety. And that's what's in item 46 of the OCW budget: more efficient education. But I'd like to study on a more euphemistic phrase. This brings me straight to Mr Rinnooy Kan's question about under-exhaustment. He asked if the rest of the underexhaustment could tempt me into a generous gesture for education and public service broadcasting together. Yes, then of course it is tempting to go back to the edges Mr Rinnooy Kan mentioned earlier. But there is also good news here: it is true that departments are allowed to exploit underexhaustment up to 1% and to take it with them to the new year, the so-called end-of-year margin. That also gives them the opportunity to solve bottlenecks to some extent. I am moving from education to health care and health care agreements, to which Mr De Grave in particular has shown particular interest. His question was: why does the cabinet expect savings through general agreements of 1.9 billion, while the CPB only partially honours them? At least that's how I understood his question. After processing the government agreement, total spending on curative care continues to rise by nearly 8 billion in the period 2018-2021. Well, that's just curative care. It is important to start by sketching the total palette, because curative care alone will increase in this cabinet period with just as much money as the Defence budget currently covers. So it really is a huge amount of money. I would like to agree with Mr De Grave that there is a risk that if we continue along this road, VWS' expenditure, however useful in itself, will push other expenditure on the budget. However, I would like to continue with the point about these broad lines of agreement. The 8 billion has already taken into account an efficiency gain of 1.9 billion that the government wants to achieve with broad agreement. Without these basic agreements, growth would be much greater. We have not just booked this efficiency gain, which is based on the report of the Technical Working Group on Healthcare Instruments (Twbz). That is an official working group of VWS, AZ and Finance. That report makes all kinds of substantive recommendations. What does the CBP do? This represents a saving of 0.9 billion for the intention and has indicated earlier that savings can increase further if parties succeed in making targeted agreements, for example in the framework of key agreements. It is also true that the CPB, in my opinion, did so last time. At that time, the Minister succeeded in doing considerably more than the CPB expected from those main agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u155	But the CPB knows all that, doesn't it? So my point remains why they still refuse to take up the 1 billion extra. That remains a complicated discussion. Look, it's all going, including your figures, more or less, compared to the Plan Bureau's estimate. I am also thinking of that other point, the Hoekstranorm, which we will come back to, but that gives a huge position to the Planning Bureau. Because that determines how big the growth is. And then you say, well, look what happens, that 8 billion, that's what the Planning Bureau expects. This will be cut by 25%, and the Planning Bureau will say: we are not going to accept it for an important part. While they know all those arguments you are using, and so do all those reports: the officials who calculated them know them. So they're actually saying, these civil servants can calculate it all nicely, but we don't believe that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u156	Well, I think the CPB is careful about that. Mr De Grave also asked me to conclave on this subject, among other things. That is unfortunate, because I am speaking to Mrs van Gucht tomorrow. Then I can also bring this point to her attention. My impression is next. I think the Planning Bureau has shown a great deal of caution. The working group I have just described is based on Mr De Grave, who will be well aware of exactly what the previous cabinet has done in the field of general agreements. Even then, the CPB initially was more cautious than the final realization.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u157	You are talking mainly about curative care, but the growth of long-term care is, of course, even more complicated. Despite the fact that the previous cabinet has managed to allow the growth of curative care to be significantly lower than the Planbureau estimates, the Planning Bureau remains of the opinion that this instrument cannot be effective enough to achieve that 1.9 billion, which you yourself believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u158	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u159	That's striking, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u160	That is certainly striking, but let me add one more nuance. The CPB has previously indicated that savings could increase further if parties manage to make targeted agreements on improving efficiency in care, for example in the framework of a broad agreement. Mr De Grave is right, moreover, that this is about the cure and that care is still an issue in itself. This is what I had to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u161	Finally, Mr. De Grave.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u162	Anyway, you take your political responsibility. You say to the Planning Bureau, "I'm confident we can make it." You're not gonna be able to do that. That is fine, because there is also the political primacy to make these considerations. However, this discussion again underpins my request in your direction on the linking of healthcare expenditure to national income, so that we get more transparency. Do I understand that you are in favour of this suggestion and that you are going to discuss it with the Planning Bureau tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u163	I very much appreciate Mr De Grave's enthusiasm, but I was, frankly, only halfway through the answer to his various questions about care. As far as taking my political responsibility is concerned, yes, but I would like to stress that the two US ministers too, one for and the other for, that is to say, their explicit political responsibility. Where necessary, I'll be happy to remind them of that. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Grave's next question was about what the sustainability deficit would be including and excluding the developments in healthcare expenditure and whether I would be prepared to consult with the CPB on this. As I said, that is unfortunate, because the first opportunity for this is tomorrow. He also asked if I would make a note with the CPB and send it to the First Chamber. Once again, it is quite right that Mr De Grave should draw attention to the problem of manageability and affordability. This is also an extremely important point for this cabinet, and for me in particular, precisely because of what I have just described, namely the danger that healthcare expenditure, no matter how valid it may be in itself, may have the capacity to suppress other expenditure. If you look at the past 20 years, you can see that movement very clearly. This has not only the particular interest of the cabinet and the US ministers, but also of myself. To reply further to Mr De Grave, I would like to make a few comments. The financial spokesmen in the Lower House were also interested in this subject in a large majority, if that is the wording. They have also pointed out the risks that we face as a result of the rising costs of care. They asked me to ask the WRR to come forward with a report on this subject. That's what I'm talking to the WRR about right now. I'm gonna talk to the Planning Bureau, too. I would like to ask Mr De Grave for some time so that I can look at these things in conjunction and at least inform the Chamber in writing, and if necessary orally, about them. The problem is obvious. I think we can certainly use the help of the Planning Bureau and the WRR. An important part of the question is about how. Let's get specific about the standard. Could he help with that? In fact, I would like to make that a subject of dialogue with both institutions. That seems to me to be the right thing to do. I would also like to turn this standard directly into the De Grave standard, because if it does, I think it would be wise for me not to be accused of nepotism, but only of its content. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to ask you about pensions. I think I've gone a long way with block two. The question of pension funds has been asked, but I think Mr Rinnooy Kan has already answered that question for me. He said a that it is the pension funds that decide what they invest in and b that besides the climate there are still a lot of useful goals that pension funds could possibly embrace. I would like to add the following. At the moment when I would argue here or outside this Chamber that I am dealing with what pension funds are investing in, this Chamber would immediately call me and ask me how the hell I think I could go about that. We really should leave that with the managers of the funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u164	You say that, apart from the climate, there are many other important things. That's absolutely true. But it is now important that pension funds still invest quite a lot in the fossil industry at the moment. In my group's opinion, this is not about investing in the future, but about something that will have to stop in the end. We do not say, of course, that you must give orders. But of course it is something else when you talk to the pension funds. That conversation has been there before, also about all kinds of other investments, for example in the housing market in the Netherlands. In that sense, what I ask is not so strange at all. I can very well imagine that you will at least have a conversation to look at that investment portfolio in the face of the enormous urgency surrounding the climate and at all the end of being profitable of that type of investment. You can say that it is desirable that policies should be developed in this direction too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u165	Let me begin by saying that, as far as I am concerned, the enormous importance of this subject is in no way in question, not for me personally, nor for the rest of the cabinet. But I do insist on being pure in the distribution of roles with pension funds. It seems to me the wrong way to go if I am the one suggesting what they should invest in. The pension spokesmen, who, if I am not mistaken, are also entitled to count on Mrs Vos, know better than anyone that pension funds are responsible for investing the assets that are ultimately to be transferred to the pensioner as wisely as possible. Then there is Mr Rinnooy Kan's point. One would expect that the finiteness of fossil fuels is priced in, for example, the stock price of a company that excels in that. This will determine the scope and desirability of pension funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u166	Frankly, my expectation is also that the type of investment in the fossil industry is becoming increasingly unattractive. We've heard that before. Of course that movement will be deployed, but that is still extremely slow. The question is therefore: does it not make sense to start talking about accelerating the use of such important resources? It's about money from a lot of people in the Netherlands. You have to use it for something that is in our collective interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u167	I think I've already answered. Perhaps that was not the answer Mrs Vos hoped for, but perhaps it was what she expected. May I conclude, in order to bring us closer together, that I hope she has heard me, but that I have understood her as well? Mr. Chairman. I've reached block three, the reforms. Our labour market, our pensions and our housing market are designed to provide security and opportunities for all. Periodic maintenance and modernisation of systems are necessary to make and maintain them future-proof. We hope to do this together with employees and employers, with the support of the rest of society. A lot of people want a steady job, but they don't succeed in finding it. The overall package of labour measures in the government agreement reduces institutional differences between flex and fixed, creates clarity for clients and contractors when working as self-employed and makes work more attractive, which is very important. As a result, more people are getting into work, more employment relationships are becoming more stable and employment relationships are more closely linked to the nature of work and to the preferences of workers. I go on at once to the question about the perceived lack of a call for the field parties to talk about higher incomes. Perhaps I can refer in that light to the embrace of the Van Weyenberg motion, which was adopted in the House of Representatives and which has exactly that in mind. The only nuance I have tried to make in this is the following: I welcome the fact that the social partners have expressed the wish to talk about wage increases and that, as far as the government is concerned, I myself have a clear role to play, but I would like to exercise some caution in that appeal, and at the same time have embraced the motion of the House of Representatives. This brings me to a question from Mr Van Apeldoorn about the Wajong benefit. He said that we would not reverse the proposed reduction in the Wajong benefit and he asked if I could explain why the cabinet considered it justified. It concerns the Wajongers group with work power. The reduction in benefits for Wajongers with work capacity ensures a more equal treatment of Wajongers with work capacity and young disabled persons in the Participation Act. This existing group is excluded from the Chamber Treatment from transition to the Participation Act, where a capital test and a partner test apply. It is important to say that the most vulnerable group, Wajongers without working capacity, maintain their 75% of the statutory minimum wage as a benefit level. Their situation doesn't change. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Rinnooy Kan's question about productivity. That is, of course, an intriguing question. He referred to the committee which, at least before my time, looked at the increase in productivity in the 1960s, but also in the 1960s. In many industrialised countries, not only in the Netherlands, trend growth in labour productivity has certainly weakened in recent years. Recent CPB research suggests that this delay is due to a return to normal productivity growth after the ICT boom of the 1990s, if you may put it that way. At the same time, this is a fascinating subject, because we all know that you can increase productivity by working more hours a day, working more days a week, working more days a year and doing so with more people, but also by being more productive per hour. Whether such a committee would help, I am not entirely sure. However, this issue calls for continued attention. Maybe I can at least promise Mr Rinnooy that we will do so, that we will report on it again, and that we will then be able to resume this discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u168	I'd love to. Yet for me there is still something mysterious in the development of that productivity; let's say the productivity per hour, because that is what the Netherlands traditionally was very strong at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u169	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u170	We really lost that top position. It is interesting to see that we are caught up in that race by countries around us, without me understanding exactly why. I'll spare you the details, I'm standing here looking at a large graph that illustrates that, and I'm sure you can find it yourself. I welcome your commitment, because I believe that no one can deny that this figure is very important for a country like the Netherlands. All that can help us to understand what is lacking and what we could improve on it is a welcome contribution to providing insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u171	Sure. I shall then look again at what that committee has done and what it has not done. Mr Rinnooy Kan spoke of a blessed work. I'm sure I'll find out. I come to the financial sector and the banks. Let me start by saying that well capitalised banks are crucial for lending and therefore for private investment in the Dutch economy. In Europe, rules are drawn up on this and the Netherlands has always used, and always remains, on solid buffers for banks. In this context, it is also positive that the Basel Committee has just this week presented an agreement on the conclusion of what some call "Basel III', "Basel III', "Basel III', "Basel III' and "Basel IV'. Mr. Chairman. In this context, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for a vision and lessons to be learned from the crisis. The cabinet, like the previous cabinet, is committed to a financial sector that is solid and stable. Of course, this translates into resilient and well capitalised banks. That's, I think, what it's all about. When it comes to lessons to be learned from the crisis, I always make the bridge to Mr Rinnooy Kan's earlier question, one of the important lessons is that we should have done what we are trying to do with the banks at a much earlier stage. Because if we had done that before, it would have saved a lot of misery in the crisis. See also the discussion on Basel and see also the wider debate on the Banking Union. I'll be on the block of Europe in a minute. I would also like to say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that in recent years we have worked very hard on the resilience of banks, that the buffers have been tightened and that good agreements have been made with banks that have been in trouble. This European Banking Union, which we embrace conceptually and which we have also started, must be further completed in the coming years. But I say right away: we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u172	I do not know if the Minister had finished answering this point, but it is not quite clear to me what is now the line of the cabinet. The Minister is right to say that one lesson from the crisis is that if we had dealt with the banks earlier, we would not have had that crisis. I fully agree with the Minister. The same applies, of course, to those bank buffers. There are a lot of economists who argue for buffers of around 10%. Your predecessor has advocated buffers for 6%. The Netherlands has gone from 3% to 4%; that was the policy. And now the coalition agreement states that, once Basel IV has been introduced, we will act in accordance with the European 3% standard. Is that the commitment of this cabinet? So we go to 3% capital buffer requirement instead of 4%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u173	In my view, too, caution in the wording is of great importance. The fact that many economists would ask for buffers of 10%, I do not recognize it very well. However, there is a broad discussion about what buffers are wise. We, the Netherlands, have put more emphasis on this than others. Mr Van Apeldoorn, like myself, knows that the so-called "capital floors' have been clarified this week. That is, in part, another way of achieving the same goal. This has considerable consequences for Dutch banks. Members will also have read in the newspaper that this means that Dutch banks will have to hold around 14 billion extra capital in the coming years. I think that's wise. I think it is also wise that Basel has decided to provide a storage facility on system banks. The last piece of the answer to Mr Van Apeldoorn's question remains to be decided in the future. For the translation of Basel into European legislation is yet to take place. And I think Mr Van Apeldoorn is aware of the commitment of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u174	Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u175	I had asked the Minister to look at this Basel agreement in a different way and to consider, for example, the fact that the Paris agreement is there, that it is therefore also very important to look at where investments are being made and loans are being made and how this relates to the agreements we made in Paris. Certain types of investment will in the long term simply lose value, because those are things that we do not want anymore. Does the Minister feel that the issue of sustainability and the Paris Agreement should also be given a place in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u176	I'm afraid that's still quite a complicated formula. Not so much because I wouldn't want to, but rather because of the following. Reflecting on the Basel process, which is now largely behind us, and the European process, which is ahead of us, it is already incredibly complicated to reach agreement. So I really should study on that. I hear very well what Mrs. Fox is saying. It does not seem easy to me, and to be honest, I would also like to understand to what extent that is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u177	I am glad that the Minister says that he is not simply putting that thought aside. I have the same idea with regard to the sustainability deficit, because now the whole idea of sustainability and the necessary changes in the economy does not play a role in this. Minister, are you prepared to consider whether we should give that whole idea of sustainability and a sustainable future a slightly greater role in some of these types of measures we use? Would you mind thinking about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u178	I always want to think about it, but I would like to point it out again, and that is not out of unwillingness, that it is a complicated formula. It is already quite complicated to show the economic picture in a good way. We have spoken before in this house about whether, apart from gross national income, you should look at something like gross national happiness, which one does in Bhutan, for example. At least that sounds very inspiring, but I always wonder how you calculate that. I am telling you quite honestly that I am not sure whether we are helping the debate on climate and sustainability most by linking these two things together. However, I would like to stress that both issues are of great importance to this cabinet. Financial solidity is of great importance and the climate is undoubtedly of great importance, as I say not only on behalf of the cabinet, but also as Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u179	Finally, Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u180	It is interesting that you say that as Minister of Finance, because that is what I am addressing you to. You also know that it is precisely in the financial systems and financial structures that there are things that we will have to change if we really want to tackle this climate problem. That's how I understand you. I hope that we can come back to you in that context to have this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u181	Sure. All I want to do is to watch over the organisation of future disappointments, as I say in the direction of Mrs Vos. Again, both goals are very important. I have doubts as to the usefulness and necessity of putting these two issues together, but let us agree that we will resume this discussion at some point. I am going from the movement towards the solidity that I see with regard to bank buffers to a much more speculative subject, which has or has not happened by Mr Backer, namely blockchains and bitcoins. Well, if I wasn't supposed to be here today, I would have been invited to Question Time of the House of Representatives. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment replaced me there. He thought he'd go there, so I at least understood it to say something about the combination of bitcoins and money laundering, but he was robbed there by a question fire about bitcoins. He must have wondered why I had to be here and him there. He promised a letter there in my name. Perhaps I could also share with Mr Backer and the rest of the Chamber that letter and then possibly discuss it with him and others?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u182	Mr Koolmees will undoubtedly have received good input for that letter. I knew that there was a look at and talk about bitcoins and cybercrime........................................................................................................................................................................................ I will hear the Secretary of State on the subject of taxation later, but thank you for that. I'd like to see all of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u183	Let me add, moreover, that the anti-money laundering rules are also being dealt with in Europe. I think we can all imagine that. I have already made public statements that I think were very explicit when it comes to the risks that citizens take when they put their savings in bitcoins. That's one. Two is that we all see that such a type of currency, if I may call it that, naturally lends itself very well to those who want to launder money. It is therefore not for nothing that we in Europe are working on anti-money laundering rules for exchange platforms for cryptocurrency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u184	I think it is very sensible that we should receive a letter on this. It seems to me that every word the Minister says on this matter will have to be weighed on a golden scale, because he talks about the currency of the euro, but others are talking about a pyramid game. I think there's a lot of money going around in here, but there's a lot of money going around in there. There could also soon be the impression that this is indeed an alternative currency without the whole system of correction and supervision being linked to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u185	Very much so. Because I attach care, I would add that I have used the word "Currency currency" as a collective name. In my reply to Mr Backer, I wanted to emphasise that I have publicly pointed out how highly speculative these bitcoins are. Those who decide to invest in it, if that is the right word, do so entirely on their own account and at risk. They cannot rely on mechanisms such as a deposit guarantee scheme, which, of course, we have in normal business, in a normal savings account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u186	Thank you to the Minister for those warning words. I think they're very important. I believe that since the tulip bulb mania we have not found ourselves in such a huge bubble as now with the bitcoins. Yesterday, trade was shut down twice, at least for future contracts. The question to the Minister is, however, that question was also in my first term of office, or warning alone is enough and whether the Minister would not want to develop other instruments to put an end to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u187	That is a very fair question. In my view, this has also been the exact tone of the jump-off of questions that my colleague, who was acting on my behalf today, has shared during Question Time. I do not have a conclusive answer to that at the moment. I can see that this is a wish that is widely shared. Mr Postema will also recognise that not only I, but also DNB, have expressed their opinion on the large risks associated with this. I think the question of and perhaps also the need for regulation is quite obvious, but I would ask for a moment to really study the answer before I promise a large-scale movement one way or the other, especially since this is, of course, an international issue. It is extremely complex and it can still go in very different directions. Finally, I believe that the reference to tulip bulb mania is quite justified. I've recently seen curves of the tulip bulb mania in combination with the bitcoin. It's fascinating how similar these curves are. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the subject of tax relief and tax reform. I will try to restrict myself, because this is explicitly a matter for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u188	Do you think you can be done with your total response at about seven o'clock?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u189	I suppose so. I also look at the clock. I've handled three out of five blocks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u190	Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u191	Now I just have to live up to it. The cabinet is going to reform the tax system. This reform is based on three pillars: the revenue package, the business package and the environmental package. I have already referred to what the Secretary of State will say about this. With the income package, the cabinet chooses to allow citizens to benefit from favourable economic developments. The burden on citizens will be reduced, inter alia by the introduction of the two-wheel system and by increasing tax reductions in income tax. The relief for citizens is over 6.2 billion in 2021, of which 5.2 billion is made up of lower taxes and 1 billion from expenditure measures, mainly increased surcharges. The revenue package also increases the burden on consumption. The discussion has been about that for a while. The maximum rate of deduction for deductions, including mortgage interest, shall be reduced. As a result, I think it is right that many spokesmen have pointed out the need to look at the whole rather than the individual measures. I think it is also important to stress that all income groups are improving purchasing power over the coming years, while income inequality is decreasing compared to the basic path. I'll go straight to the one-earner's point. That is a point which Mr Schalk attaches great importance to. Let me give more thought to that. Wait, I can see Mr. Schalk at the interrupting microphone. I haven't said the word yet or he's already risen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u192	Are you going to ask a question about that already, Mr Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u193	No, I'm not. No, I'm very curious about the answer, but the answer from before was also interesting. The Minister actually said that everyone is making a lot of progress, but I indicated in my speech that people with an income of around €22,000 to €32,000 are making a bit more progress in 2021, but that they are now getting worse and that it is not going well in that group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u194	I didn't say that everyone was making a lot of progress. I have said that all income groups will improve purchasing power in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u195	Mrs. Vos, I would also like a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u196	A quick question. 5% of income groups are not improving, but declining. That was also the issue here last week. These are low-paid people, pensioners and welfare recipients. Those groups are there, too. My second question concerns the purchasing power effects. There are also differences in the extent to which the different groups are making progress. The gap between the lowest groups and the groups above it, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u197	That is true, but I would also like to stress that this so-called "gini coefficient', which we all consider important, is developing in a positive way through the policy of this cabinet. Thus income inequality is reduced by government policy, by 2.7%. Had we pursued the policy of the basic path of the previous cabinet, this income inequality would have been greater than it is today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u198	As long as we are talking about this, I would like to make the following point. In addition to the gini coefficient, there are three other measures to measure income inequality. These are in your beautiful Blue Book: the 80/20 ratio, the 90/10 ratio and the relative interquartile distance. There are also measurements that do show that income inequality is increasing. I don't think it's as simple as the Minister says. The table in your beautiful Blue Book runs until the year 2014. For my group, it would be interesting if you could also send the Chamber the same calculation of these four levels of income equality for the years after and for the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u199	But then I want to be exactly in this again. The gini coefficient shows the effect of government policy on income disparities. Then we see that this cabinet policy leads to smaller income differences. In addition, the data in various tables show that all income groups are improving. It is true that different income groups are improving in different ways. The most important conclusion is that everyone is making progress. There are differences, but these differences are, to a large extent, not caused by policies, but simply by economic growth. That may be an obvious example, but it is a good thing to mention it. People with higher incomes are more able to benefit from economic growth, but the government policy is, of course, what I am primarily approachable to, and it ensures that more favourable gini coefficient. I think that's an important distinction to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u200	I actually had an interruption on a previous point. I will save that for the second term, because I would like to refer to the discussion with Mr Vos van net. It stated that all groups are improving on it. Then I'll say again that people with Wajong benefits are getting worse. The Minister's talking about the gini coefficient. The CPB has indeed calculated that it is going down again compared to the basic path instead of increasing 2.7%, but in the long term income equality remains equally uneven in the new basic path of this cabinet. It's about calculations that, I believe, run until 2060. My question to the Minister is what happens to the gini coefficient and income inequality during this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u201	Then I'm going to re-read the information from that table. I've got that 2.7% in my head. I think it is important to emphasise a few things. I also have a number of specific answers, which I will give in a moment. Look, we live in one of the most egalitarian countries in the world. I think that's very appealing to most of us. This has all kinds of advantages in terms of cohesion in society. We recognize that from rich countries where it is less. At the same time, the most important thing for all groups is how they are doing in an absolute sense and not just how they are doing in a relative sense. I would like to insist that, if you look at these tables, all income groups are making progress, whether they are employed or non-employed, old or young, Randstad or rural and one-earners or two-earners. Let me not forget that last group, because I will wake up Mr Schalk. I really think it is very important to emphasise that. This has also been the choice of this cabinet: to ensure that everyone gets better. Again, I'm not talking about every individual, but I'm talking about every group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u202	Shortly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u203	Yeah, short. It remains a fact that, according to the CPB's figures, income inequality is increasing on balance? Everyone is making progress, but benefit recipients are making a lot less progress than workers and people with a modal income are making a lot less progress than people with an upper-mode income. Isn't it a conscious choice of this cabinet to allow income inequality and inequality to grow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u204	Mr Van Apeldoorn uses the words "much less" than "much less." Those people aren't getting any better. That's a fair conclusion. It is also true that this cabinet attaches great importance to ensuring that more people go to work. I really want to stress that this cabinet has tried to be reasonable in this respect towards all groups. All groups are making progress. There is the goal to do both for a earner and what to do for two earners. There is also an express desire to ensure that more people participate in society by going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u205	From our group we appreciate the development of the ginico-efficient. It is very important that we become even more egalitarian in this respect. By the way, there are still views north of the Netherlands to which we can mirror. However, I am opposed to the idea raised by the Minister, namely that all groups are improving on it. That image was also raised last week in my group chairman's debate with the Prime Minister. It may be that all groups are making progress, but then the Minister for Social Affairs should not mention anything else in the purchasing power letter of 27 October. That's just confusing. This letter states in Table 4 that various groups are declining 0% to 2%. Within the category of beneficiaries, this would be 9%, within the category of pensioners 12% and within the category of self-employed 6%. We find that very difficult to reconcile.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u206	I will try to increase my control of the Minister of SZW even further. For now, I propose that I use the pause to put those two tables next to each other. I do not know the information sent by the SZW Minister on this point. I do recognize the tables that have been passed on by the Planning Bureau, among other things. This shows that all these groups are making progress. Let me compare these two tables, also to eliminate misunderstandings. I shall come back to that either in second term or in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u207	I have not yet heard from the Minister about the fact that the available income in the Netherlands is relatively lagging behind compared to the neighbouring countries. It is even lagging behind the EU average debt ratio and significantly. I would ask the Minister whether he is still coming to that point and, above all, whether he is going to do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u208	Maybe I'll come up with that and different from... Let me rephrase it: in all cases, I will come to that. Mr. Chairman. It is nice that Mr Van Strien allows me to park it, because I had just started to warm up for the single-earners. I would like to think a little more about this, because I know what Mr Schalk's heart is after this. I would also add that the cabinet is certainly working on this, as the Prime Minister said during the Political Reviews. Not only him, but also me, and of course the Secretary of State, are very willing to engage in the follow-up discussion with Mr Schalk, but also with others who are interested in this subject. At the same time, I would like to add some nuance to the imagery, including for the discussion. I hope that Mr Schalk will allow me to do the same. The debate on the one- and two-earners lends itself to nuance. Other speakers have already referred to the situation of 100 years ago and to what has changed in the Netherlands since then. That's what it's really about. The tax burden, viewed at household level, is higher for a earner's household than for a two-earner's household in the case of an equal household income. This is, among other things, the result of the progressive system, and Mr Backer said that this system was introduced 100 years ago; I did not know that because it taxes an income earned by two persons at a lower marginal rate than the same income earned by one person. I think that's important to mark. That is a very valid wish, which I believe is also shared by almost all the groups. In a two-earner household, both partners earn an income on which tax is levied. As a result, both are also entitled to tax rebates and, where appropriate, the least-earning partner is still entitled to the income-dependent combination discount. A non-working partner does not pay any tax and therefore does not have the right to an employment discount or to the income-dependent combination discount. Until 1972, all income components of a married woman were still attributed to her husband. Since then, steps have been taken towards a more individual implementation of the tax system. Today, in principle, the income of both partners is taxed individually. Mr De Grave referred to this. How much we want to co-operate with Mr Schalk, I believe that the cabinet fully supports that principle. This is not only good for the economy. Although it has a positive effect on employment, it is more important that it also promotes the economic independence and independence of both partners and encourages the distribution of paid and unpaid work within the household. However much we attach to honesty and reasonableness, especially towards the single earner, I think it is crucial to emphasise this, because this is the view of the cabinet and I also suspect that there is an overwhelming majority in the Chamber. Having said that, the purchasing power of a earner's household has hardly increased in recent years. Mr Schalk is right about that again. It is therefore right that extra attention was paid to this during the process. I should perhaps stress that it is precisely the earners who stand out in the table that Mr Postema and I were just talking about. Mr. Chairman. I am not sure whether I have satisfied Mr Schalk entirely. Oh, oh!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u209	Whether or not that has been entirely successful, I know, because that is not the case. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer, for the outstretched hand and for the door which seems to be open. I'd love to have the follow-up. I am happy to accept that commitment, but I also have a question. The Secretary of State has received two books from Mr Dijkgraaf with more than 700 letters from a earner. I gave it to the Prime Minister, too. The Minister has undoubtedly read them all, too, or not. On the contrary, there are many examples of people who have no choice but to opt for a single earner. A soldier on mission, whose wife takes care of the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u210	Could you be brief, Mr. Schalk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u211	Sure. It can also be the other way around: a woman on mission, whose husband takes care of the children. A woman who takes care of the income because the man fell off the dock. Et cetera. That choice is far from easy for everyone to make. If those are punished, shouldn't we look at them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u212	Very much so. The Prime Minister also made me a part of the conversation. Would it be okay if we agreed to this? In my opinion, this has already been changed in relation to the Dutch Parliamentary Group of the SGP. I think the Planning Agency is coming up with a report soon. Let us wait and take this into account in the discussion that Mr Schalk and I propose to have together, or in the presence of others. Does that meet his wishes? Have I given him a satisfactory response to the subject of marginal pressure pyrites? That is perhaps too much entrapment, Mr President, as they call it across the street. Let me say a few words about it. The Cabinet recognises that the marginal pressure on the income path in particular can be between €20,000 and €35,000 high. The main reason for this is that surcharges, to some extent also tax rebates, are phased out over this route. Mr Schalk has just one point: that is undesirable, even because it does not encourage people to work more. We agreed to do something about that. We're going to do something about that in this cabinet period. An important measure is, for example, the reduction of the rent payment. At present, for example, this is causing an extreme peak in marginal pressure of more than 100%, to which Mr Schalk also referred. The increase in the employment discount and the lower disc rates also reduce marginal pressure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u213	More than 100%? It's 161% in some cases! That is so incredibly high. This means that someone who will earn €1,000 a year more, who will lose €1,000 in taxes, plus €610!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u214	Mr Schalk and I agree that this does not feel reasonable. It is the government's explicit intention to do something about this. My impression is that the measures we are going to take in the field of taxation are going to do something about that. Mr. Chairman. I have discussed the call from the Prime Minister and Mr Knot on interfering in wage developments. I come to the next issue: the package for business and the business environment. The second pillar of the tax reform is to improve the tax environment with a tax package for business. In total, this package will reduce the burden on businesses by EUR 3 billion. The underlying measures consist of three elements: addressing tax avoidance, broadening the tax base and reducing the burden. The VPB rates go to 16% and 21% respectively. One of the speakers already referred to this. The dividend tax is abolished. A lot of questions have been asked about the usefulness and necessity of abolishing the dividend tax. Although I very much agree with Mr De Graaf that this debate is still coming, I think it would be a good idea to say something about it. The first is that this subject has been in political interest for much longer than perhaps has been suggested in the various discussions. It was Secretary of State Wijn who carried out a reduction and at that time indicated that he suspected that the dividend tax would be abolished once. There has been a hearing with the House of Representatives, I think it was in 2009 that a wide-ranging exchange of views was held on this subject. At that time, many also argued for abolition. With the cabinet coming up, you hear a lot of different opinions about it again; honest is fair. So let me try briefly to articulate why the cabinet thinks it is wise to do so. As far as I'm concerned, there's an offensive and defensive logic in that. As far as we are concerned, this offensive and defensive logic is about Dutch jobs. It is very important that we protect the Dutch business community. I am not just thinking of multinational headquarters. I would really like to point out that these large companies carry a huge number of suppliers. These are often very normal jobs, which are also indirectly created by these headquarters. Then the question is: why now? There's something going on in the world. We're about to talk about the Brexit. The Brexit means that there is a lot of movement in Europe. It's not for nothing that Britain doesn't have a dividend tax. It is also good to emphasise that I have been addressed in my first eurogroup by several fellow Members of the European Parliament. They said, "How high is this Vpb in the Netherlands?" For we are about to reduce it. The idea that they will follow because the Netherlands does something is only partly true, I think. Many countries, whether or not inspired by the Brexit, are looking at how they can improve the locational climate. I would like to add that taxation is, of course, a crucial part of the locational environment, but of course there is much more. It is also about infrastructure, about the level of education and not about the stability of politics and the judiciary. There is much more that makes the Netherlands attractive. But the cabinet does think that the offensive and defensive is wise to abolish the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u215	The Minister confuses me a little, because he talks about the Vpb again and then again about the dividend tax. Those are really two completely different types of load, with a very different behavior effect. Today the high place of the Netherlands in the World Competitiveness Ranking of IMD was mentioned. I actually look at that report every year. If you look at the location factors that make our country strong, you will see that this is never mentioned, I say to the Minister through the President. In fact, Chief Conomere Caballero is talking about the efficiency of the government and, above all, the good education and skills of the workforce, which is ideally able to cope with changing circumstances. These are the major factors of location that this renowned institution also brings to the fore. I should therefore like to ask the Minister not to drag these taxes in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u216	I would like to give an answer at two levels. The first is that Mr Postema and I agree with each other. The total package by which companies, who are really just making lists, come to the Netherlands, whether or not they decide to leave the Netherlands, is a combination of a number of factors. That is about the intrinsic quality of Dutch society, which I have just mentioned. That is about the level at which Dutch people are trained, about stability, about our excellent infrastructure and international accessibility. In addition, however, taxation is also subject to severe pressure. The Vpb is looked at. That is another subject, but that is certainly relevant. I noticed in the discussions with my fellow Members that they are looking at this outside the Netherlands. And the dividend tax is also being looked at. I think it's also naive to pretend that it doesn't matter in that playing field. Again, there's an offensive and a defensive side to it. On the one hand, the cabinet wants to make us more attractive to companies that are considering coming to Europe and, in particular, to the Netherlands. On the other hand, it does not want to lose companies that are here and that are crucial for the Dutch economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u217	You might be able to reason all the bits to help or it's a gamble, but that's not the way we'd rather be in it. It's too much money for that. We are talking about 1.4 billion structuralally, which we could really give a better destination to. That is what my group and many other groups in this House say, but also, as recalled in my first term, your own Top Team Headquarters. Those people are hired to advise you in this area, and they say: we just need to leave that dividend tax alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u218	I would like to point out to Mr Postema that a great deal has happened in particular over the last six months. A little longer ago, there was no Brexit. We don't know exactly what it's gonna look like yet, but I'm not under any illusion as to how Downing Street looks at these kinds of problems and possibilities. I therefore believe that the urgency of doing what has indeed been increased compared to a period ago, when this issue was also discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u219	I can't really make chocolate out of it anyway. The Minister talks about "Offensive' and "Offensive'. In what way does the Minister believe that abolishing the dividend tax will help to ensure that business stays here? What is the causal mechanism that causes that to happen? That's not clear to me. Can the Minister just explain how that works?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u220	I don't know if I can explain a lot more about it than I just did. What I believe we agree on, or what I hope we agree on, is that it is precisely for an open and highly connected economy like ours that it is crucial to remain attractive to businesses, to ensure that they come or stay here. This has always been the subject of great interest in the various Cabinets and also in both Chambers of the States General. It is not for nothing that in this house, but also in the hearing I have just referred to, the question has often been asked how the dividend tax will or will not help in that game, however true it is that a lot of other measures are also important. Secondly, the negotiators, I have not been there at that time, based on the information at their disposal, thought that the climate of establishment is a problem which is increasing in urgency. That gains in urgency because there are many movements in the tax area and because of the Brexit there are also great unpredictableities coming towards us. That is why it has been decided to make this choice. I really want to stress that, as far as I am concerned, this is also a very justifiable choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u221	Mr Van Apeldoorn, finally at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u222	The Minister continues to raise a great deal of fog by always referring to the Brexit, but my simple question is: how do we attract companies to the Netherlands by abolishing the dividend tax? It is not the companies that pay the dividend tax. The abolition of the dividend tax will reduce the burden on the foreign tax authorities. Most of that 1.4 billion will flow into the treasury of foreign governments. And a small part goes to foreign shareholders, not companies. For companies, therefore, it does not make the Netherlands a more attractive location.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u223	Mr Van Apeldoorn now pretends that companies do not have to care about their shareholders. That seems to me to be a short turning point. I think it is very important for a company based either in the Netherlands or in Britain, for example, whether or not there is a dividend tax and what shareholders think of it. Once again, the government's considerations have obviously not been what it would possibly yield in a foreign treasury or with foreign shareholders. I want to fight that frame, too. The logic of the cabinet has been: we are there to stand up for Dutch jobs and Dutch interests. I would also like to remind the various spokesmen how at least the House of Representatives for the First Chamber is that a little less, I think, was too small when it was relatively recently about possible takeovers of other multinationals. I mentioned the Akzo example earlier. Then there is acute talk in the Netherlands about protection structures and not letting our silver table sell. That is a sentiment that I personally recognize very much, but it is one of two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u224	Let me come back to why this measure leads to the preservation of Dutch jobs or to more Dutch jobs. That remains unclear for my group as well. The point is that of these 1.4 billion 1.1 billion will benefit foreign governments. 0.3 billion will benefit foreign shareholders. This is a relatively small percentage, but the Minister says that companies, because they want to vote in favour of their shareholders, will remain in the Netherlands because that tax will be abolished. I think that is an extremely weak defence. I can't say otherwise. Only a small part is about the shareholders. Why would a company stay in the Netherlands for that reason?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u225	It's about a few companies. Well, that's pretty clear by now, a few of them sitting here now. The question is, are they going to London or are they staying here? We have heard from the Brexit that it was all dramatic in Britain on the other side of the lake and that these companies would all be pulling away, and now we are taking a measure to prevent these companies from going from the Netherlands to Great Britain. That question has not yet been raised here and I would like to see it answered by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u226	It could be that Mr Van Strien is watching the Brexit and thinks: I want to do the same in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u227	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u228	We think this is unwise. We think that, if you look at the absolute political chaos in the United Kingdom, if you look at the damage that the economy has already suffered in the past period, it is something that you will want to avoid in the Netherlands at the expense of much. That is why we are committed, not only to the European Union, but also to the euro. At the same time, and that is an answer to Mr Van Strien's question, the Brexit means that many of these kinds of subjects are in great motion. I have no illusions about how the British look at this. They have no dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u229	That still doesn't answer my question. The question is: why should we abolish the dividend tax now? Because those companies are threatening to go to London? We have just heard for a year that all those companies from London would just leave for the mainland. Our opinion on the desirability or not of a nexit is outside. By the way, that opinion is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u230	Mr Van Strien, wait a moment, because Mrs Vos first asked a question about the 1.1 billion that would go to the governments and the 0.3 billion to the shareholders. That question still needs to be answered, but I would like to end the discussion on this point, because there is still a second deadline. If you don't want to sleep here tonight with your pajamas on cots, we'll have to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u231	The Secretary of State has a lot of experience there, by the way. I don't recognize that exact split. I really should check that out. The question is whether that exact breakdown is the most relevant fact here. It is true that Mrs Vos is right in saying that part of it is for the benefit of shareholders. In some cases, some also benefit foreign treasuries. The question is: how do you ensure that you as a country with your locational climate are and remain attractive? Again, that's what you do to attract companies and keep companies here. This cabinet has taken the view that no, I have to put it more specifically, the forming parties thought this summer on the basis of information they had at their disposal and also looking at the Brexit and what else is going on in the world that it was wise to move this way. Quite frankly, with many of the most complicated decisions in life, you can't make a sum and say that A or B comes out and you turn left or right. Is there some degree of uncertainty there? Yes, but at the same time I strongly oppose the idea of this being a gamble. In my view, this is an unwise choice, with many uncertainties attached. We do this to protect Dutch jobs and to ensure that more jobs are created in the Netherlands by attracting companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u232	Mrs Vos, if you still have a very small point, otherwise you will have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u233	The Minister just doesn't answer. There's going to be some sort of image of: yes, we have to do something, so okay, let's do it. That's just not an answer. Based on this, you don't make a policy. The Minister is already moving in the direction of the forming parties. That speaks volumes, because apparently he can't defend this. It can't be defended. I don't hear an answer from this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u234	Mrs. Vos does not like the answer. I'm trying to separate in the process between a forming part and the period I can actively talk into. I have not been involved in the first period, so in that sense I find it difficult to make a statement, but I did say that I also believe that I fully agree with the government agreement and that I find this measure highly justifiable, precisely for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u235	Maybe we won't make 7:00, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u236	Not quite, Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I now move on to the article on Europe and the Netherlands in the world. Let's see if I can get through that quickly. The cabinet wants the stability and good functioning of the EU to be further strengthened in the coming years. I have spoken in this regard in Europe about three decisions, commitment, groups and conditions. By this I meant to express our strong commitment to Europe and to the euro area, both as a cabinet and as a country. At the same time, the Netherlands has serious concerns, for example, about the slow pace of debt deleveraging. That is why, when it comes to a functioning EMU, we want to impose a condition on the other Member States. Several Members, including Mr Ten Hoeve, Mr Rinnooy Kan, Mr Van Rij, Mr Ester, but perhaps I shall pass on one more, have asked for my views on the future of Europe and the future of EMU. In my letter, I tried to answer that as much as possible. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is also concerned with asylum issues which are highlighted in the report of the Council of State and to which Mr Ester also refers. Mr Rinnooy Kan makes it even more specific. He asked what powers I would like to strengthen in the European area and which not. It is good to mention that I have also talked about getting the house in order in Europe. On the one hand, the Commission and the Member States congratulate themselves and each other at the Eurogroup meeting on a long period of economic growth, but on the other hand, the same countries still face the same deficits. Honestly, I'm very worried about that. We all know the saying: Never washed a good crisis. The opposite is true here. You should actually use this period to get the house in order. Some countries have used the crisis to do so, but others much less. The Netherlands hears in the first row in this respect. Mr Rinnooy Kan knows exactly which countries belong in the other row. Mr Rinnooy Kan also asked about the effects of the ECB's balance sheet discount. He knows that I always start my answer by saying that the ECB is independent in its policy. So, as Minister of Finance, I cannot judge or speculate on that. Having said that, if that broad monetary policy were to be phased out, it could indeed increase interest rates and reduce asset prices. I think we should deal with that fairly soberly. The effects of not extending the central balance sheet in the United States have been rather limited. Also, the beginning of the reduction in the balance sheet since October of this year has not led to major shocks. Moreover, the impact can be mitigated by increasing the resilience of the economy to shocks. In that sense, but then back to my previous point, it is wise to pursue a policy at national level that is an alternative to some of the measures taken by the ECB. Mr Ester has already referred to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u237	This is also a big topic. I do not have the illusion that we will be able to deal with this in a very short time, but I would like to stress one key word in this discussion, and that is the word'solidarity'. I think I fully agree with the Minister and, moreover, with my group when he says that this is the time when the Member States must get their economies in order. That must be done above all. They must be encouraged and encouraged to do so. But sooner or later, let us hope that after that process has been completed or at least largely completed, at least that is what I am presenting to the Minister, crises are going to arise. They will most probably not always be affected and let us hope so, but above all, not all European countries at once. Then those are the asymmetric shocks. We must prepare ourselves for that. The key question seems to me to be what, in this situation, is the willingness of this cabinet, out of solidarity, to give appropriate support to Member States affected by such asymmetric shock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u238	I understand Mr Rinnooy's question very well. At the same time, he will recognize that the coalition agreement is very explicit in terms of fiscal capacity. That is something the cabinet opposes, and rightly so as far as I am concerned. I can go along with the reasoning of solidarity, but it is important, I think, to stress that there can be no solidarity without reciprocity. To be honest, that is what it has largely failed to achieve in Europe. Maybe in that context I can further enhance the imagery that I began to develop in the discussion with the Permanent Committee of the Chambers. I was talking about a group of climbers on their way to the base camp. You could speak of 19 climbers who are going to decide whether they are going up further. The first thing that happened, I think, is that part of the climbers that the Netherlands would have liked to take away on the way. Once arrived at the base camp, the climbers look up. They do not yet have a shared picture of exactly how far they want to go up. They have big discussions about the way to the summit. Those who are worst prepared are those who say, "Shall we begin?" That is precisely the problem with Europe. In this Eurogroup I certainly taste solidarity, but at the same time I taste very great encouragement, especially from those whom you would expect to be more modest in asking them to go this way. I find that worrying, to be honest. Mr President, if I may, I would like to take a step towards a subject which Mr Rinnooy Kan and others are very close to heart and which is very much in line with the debate on fiscal capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u239	Not to be annoying, but I'll suspend at 7:15 anyway. Then you can continue after dinner, but I'll suspend at 7:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u240	Is that also an encouragement to do it even faster? 'Cause there's still some...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u241	No, no, it's not, but then you'll know what you're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u242	I was ready for the Banking Union. In fact, there is something similar about the Banking Union. I believe that the Netherlands has shown solidarity in this respect. We have said that we support this banking union. Why? Because it ultimately provides more stability, more control over banks and better buffers. So we also committed ourselves to finishing that road map. However, there is an important but on it. At some point, the issue of debt reduction for these banks will also come around the corner. Step zero is that you agree on exactly what debt reduction of those banks means. Then step one is going to reduce those debts. It is only after that that there can be debt-sharing. That is therefore only the moment when I would like to move on to such a European deposit guarantee scheme. If you do it in the wrong order, then the Dutch and, above all, the German taxpayers will pay the bill of the misery that banks in southern Europe in particular have not cleaned up. That seems to me to be a very undesirable situation. It just wouldn't be fair to use that word. Mr Rinnooy Kan said what Germany thought of it in the early days. My feeling is that Germany is very encouraging us to hold on to that line, and not just Germany. A number of other countries have also made it very explicit that they are committed to this banking union, but that the orderality is crucial in order to reach the final stage. Then there's an at least as complex a subject. Many, including Mr Rinnooy Kan, have asked for the desired outcome of the Brexit and they have asked how realistic I think that this desired outcome will be. I think it would be wise to stress and start by saying that this Brexit will be extremely bad for the Netherlands, in all scenarios. The first effect that will be negative or very negative is the effect on the economic situation. Mr Ester referred to this. We have no illusions: the Netherlands will have to bear part of that pain. Not as bad as Ireland, but as a group of countries that come soon after. The second effect, which has not been mentioned, but which I would like to name, is that the new budget will have to be negotiated after this European budgetary period. You can already see that some people say: that is excellent, but that budget must remain intact and the net payers must erase the money that Britain no longer spends. What is more, we can stop this unfortunate system of discounts. This would also be an extremely unwanted outcome for the Netherlands; a double unwanted outcome. So you have the effect on the economic situation that can be very negative and you have the effect on the European budget. I have already mentioned that the negative consequences of the Brexit have not been taken into account in the calculations under the coalition agreement. That's a real vulnerability. Then what is the desired outcome? I can be explicit about that, too. The really desired outcome for the Netherlands is that the British adjust or postpone the Brexit. A few months ago, that seemed like a possibility. My perception, but I say that very carefully and from a great distance, is that it is more likely that something will come of a Brexit, whether or not after delay. Then what is the most desired Brexit in that scenario? This is the softest possible Brexit, in which Britain and the EU, read the Netherlands, remain knotted together as much as possible. To answer the final part of many's question, how do we prepare ourselves for that? I say: we do this by looking at different scenarios, at all kinds of levels. In some scenarios, we will have to negotiate very explicitly with Great Britain ourselves. In all scenarios, we will have to consider adjustments, for example in customs. In all cases, Dutch customs will have to make very different arrangements with Great Britain. So it's on all kinds of levels. It is incredibly complex and a good outcome is far from guaranteed. That's a rather unsatisfactory answer, but that's really how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u243	I fully understand the considerations made by the Minister. I have, I believe, a simple question, namely whether the Netherlands in principle has the freedom to conclude bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom. Or should this always be done within the EU framework? Do we have any degrees of freedom in that? You just showed that there might be. Can you add one or two more sentences to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u244	It is a bit of a process answer, but it depends very much on what stage we are in and what kind of Brexit we seem to be heading for. There is, of course, the variant that the British are trying to keep doing a lot with the European Union and the European Union is allowing it. Mr Ester can imagine that this formula will be much more decided at European level, perhaps with a number of elements. As soon as the British say: we are going to pay the bill and we are going to fall back on WTO agreements, there is a long list of subjects I will not list them now in respect of which the Netherlands will have to do business itself. I would like to point out that a number of very specific vulnerabilities will immediately come to the fore. So I do not think it is wise to go into too much public about these various scenarios and the pluses and the minuses. However, it is good to emphasise that this has our particular interest, of the Foreign Minister, of the Prime Minister and of me in particular. Mr Ester also asked about the impact of the Brexit on the customs union and how the Tax Administration is preparing for it. I think the Secretary of State will say something about this if necessary, but I already mentioned customs. As you know, customs are part of the Tax Department. In the context of the really big problems in life, we have had Europe and the Brexit. For me, Mr Ester has added the Chinese debt mountain, in the context of things that I cannot really do anything about and not really go about, but have to come up with a solution. Thanks for that. In recent years, China has strongly stimulated the economy through debt. The authorities will have to make important reforms in the coming years, structuralally and in the financial sector, in order to make growth more sustainable, as recommended by the IMF. At the same time, many years of capital controls have kept China relatively closed. I think Mr Ester knows this in quite a great deal too. According to the ECB, the direct financial exposures of the euro area in China are too limited to cause a crisis in the euro area in the event of shocks; that is part of the good news. I would add that this risk will increase if the linking of the world economy continues. Although trade between the Netherlands and China is relatively small at the moment, the share of the Netherlands is quite large again if you look at the total European palette. In the absence of any change in Chinese policy, this risk could therefore increase in the long term. Mr Ten Hoeve looks forward to a permanent president of the euro group and perhaps others with him. As we have just pointed out in response to the report of the International Affairs Advisory Council, the cabinet does not attach any importance to that permanent chairman, to say it carefully. We believe that there should first be a discussion on what the tasks and responsibilities of those should be. We also believe that a new permanent function should contribute to a better functioning of Europe and the euro area. We do not think that the discussion about this chairman is merely premature; we do not think it is an end in itself either. Before I come to a complete conclusion, I have here a card that says: more women in the future. That's a sentence you can read on so many levels that I'm afraid to venture an exegesis, but I'll take it to myself. Perhaps I could say that to Mr Koffeman. I'm heading for a lockdown now anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u245	Well, I'd have said quarter about pomegranate. That's one more minute, so I'm just gonna ask if we can make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u246	I think I can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u247	Okay. Then you'll finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u248	Mr. Chairman. The plans of this cabinet bring the Netherlands further. That is the conviction of the supporting groups, as it is so beautifully called "VVD', "CDA', "D66' and "ChristianUnion' in the House of Representatives, and that is also my conviction, in the realization that investment in our collective provisions and proposed tax reliefs and reforms will only be meaningful when Dutch citizens and companies ultimately reap the benefits. With these choices, the government gives a total boost of 14.5 billion to the Dutch economy. I would like to stress once again that this is justified and that it is also a very broad wish, but at the same time it means keeping a close eye on the limits of our budgetary space. This applies primarily to myself, but I would also like to warmly invite the financial spokesmen to contribute to this. I very much look forward to continuing cooperation in this new role. Mr President, with a look at the clock, I think I should leave it at that in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u249	Thank you. I hope you haven't felt very rushed by me, but we still have a lot to go tonight. I think the Members of Parliament will also like it when we are ready at a reasonable time. Or, at least, reasonable: it will be against twelve. But it's nice if at least everyone can still come home tonight. You wanted to say something, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u250	Well, actually, just that I've seen you hunt down the various regiments for years, so I kind of knew how it would go tonight. But thank you for your leniency!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u251	Well, then I wonder if it wasn't too bad or bad. But we'll find out!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u252	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews and the handling of the Tax Plan package 2018. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u253	Thank you, Madam President. Perhaps more than the Minister, it is of course a great honour and pleasure for me to be able to discuss with you today in this Chamber a whole series of plans, not only of Rutte III, the cabinet I am in, but also part of Rutte II. The tax plans concern not only what the current cabinet has proposed, but also some of the measures taken in the previous cabinet. I, too, with the Minister, look forward very much to good cooperation in the coming years and constant intensive discussions on taxation. Today we have a little more than just taxation. We also have the General Financial Reviews, in which a number of questions have emerged. In addition to the Tax Plan, we are also talking about the bill to phase out the so-called Hillen deduction. There are still one or two legislative proposals which I shall try to answer as briefly as possible. Let me start with the questions that come with the general part of the General Financial Reviews. I think it's a good thing I gave a very small introduction to that question. They asked me about what my plans actually were. The most important thing for this cabinet is to show all income groups that the economy in the Netherlands is improving and that they can take advantage of improved public finances and better employment. It is therefore time to reduce income taxes and further reform the tax system. At the core, we have three pillars on which we are going to do so. The reform is on the one hand in reducing the burden on citizens and reducing the burden on labour. By the way, I will follow these blocks in the answer. The second is about improving the tax environment, which we consider important, with tax avoidance and evasion being tackled more firmly. That is also an important point. The third block is about a further greening of our tax system. There too, a number of measures in the coalition agreement are worth discussing. Moreover, in all these three pillars there is a kind of fourth pillar that hangs over it, namely that of the feasibility of the Tax Administration. There were some questions about this too: what about the Tax Administration? In my first debates in the other Chamber, on the other hand, and also in the department, I have indicated that the Tax Administration will be an important test of the feasibility of all our tax plans. I keep looking at this, not only because it is sometimes complicated to turn all kinds of legislation into verifiable implementation, but also because we sometimes tend to want a little too much at the same time. That is at the expense of the execution. That is the point you will see me make over and over again in the years to come. As I have said, I will deal with the various blocks of the pillars I mentioned. The first is about reducing the burden and reducing the burden on labour. The Minister has already said a few things about it. It is clear that the measures taken by this cabinet will lead to an improvement in purchasing power for all income groups in the coming years. For example, we agreed to introduce a two-disk system in box 1 of income tax. This increases the disposable income of everyone who is now in the second, third and fourth discs. When I say 'everyone else', I mean every income group, because of course there are always individual cases for which it can be different. The advantage of this two-disk system is not only that it leads to better purchasing power, but also that the tax system becomes more insightful and it also becomes less important or one or two people bring the money together. In order to ensure that lower incomes also get more spending, the general tax rebate goes up. The reduction also increases and increases over a longer income path. And not unimportant: the old-age discount goes up and gets a much more gradual phasing-out than it has now. With a view to a careful introduction, the latter measure is already included in the tax plan currently before your Chamber. In addition to the shift in charges, there are also reforms. In the future, consumption and pollution will be taxed more than we do now. On the greening aspects, I will come back to the third pillar. The maximum deduction rate for deductions is also reduced to the basic rate and, for example, the Hillen scheme will be abolished in 30 years. The levy in box 3 is also more in line with a real return; a wish that many of you have raised this evening. On balance, this income package is accompanied by a reduction in the burden for citizens of more than 5.2 billion in 2021. Perhaps it is more important to make work pay again, and I would add that the purchasing power of all income groups is increasing for young and old and that the tax treatment of the various groups is becoming more balanced. I think it would be useful to deal immediately with a number of questions that have been raised around this block, including the tax reform, but also with individual cases that affect citizens, for example. I am thinking of pensions, but also of the BBA. The very first question that arose was not raised, but my answer to it is here from Mr Schalk. He wasn't the first speaker. He asked if the flat tax would not only help when you start with a clean slate and if part of the effect is not lost because a lot of tax reductions are income-dependent. There is a very brief answer to that: yes, that is true. We do not have a pure flat tax and this measure may not have brought it any closer either. We have, however, introduced a kind of social flat tax, which we are certainly trying to take a step in the right direction. This, for example, reduces the income gap between one and two-earers and also reduces the difference between the top rate and other rates. The advantage of this is that everyone's disposable incomes increase in the second, third and fourth disks and that it also becomes a little more insightful. But it's not a clean flat tax. No, that's clear. Mrs Vos and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether the increase in the reduced VAT rate was not particularly affecting the lowest income. This would be demonstrated by a CBS study. We have looked at it for a moment, but in itself we do not fully endorse it. We were mainly looking at investigations from the Planning Bureau. These indicated in the past that the differences between income groups are marginal when it comes to VAT. The number of uses covered by the reduced rate is about the same for the highest and the lowest group. In practice, it is sometimes forgotten that a lot of services covered by the low VAT rate are mainly used by the highest income deficit. Then you should think about visiting theater and going out to dinner. These are all issues that people with a higher income spend more on, but which are indeed covered by the low VAT rate. The Nibud also made a calculation about it. This has calculated that the difference between the average purchasing power effects of the VAT increase and the impact on an example family that will be most affected by the VAT increase is "the maximum model family difference'. There are, of course, examples of people who have a different package. I would just like to point out that an increase in the reduced VAT rate does not affect mainly low incomes, but also high incomes. Mr Schalk asked whether all the Dutch would improve with this purchasing power package and whether a number of people would not decline. Actually, I was just answering that a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u254	Mr Snel says that it also affects high incomes. Yes, that is the case, of course, but of course it is what it does for the wallet of people who have a very small wallet. They may want to go to that theater too, and they can afford it now, but maybe not anymore. They go to the supermarket to buy vegetables and see that the VAT has gone up by 50%. Of course, higher-income people also spend their money on luxurious lunches or chic dinners, but they can also choose to order a bottle of wine less at a higher VAT rate. Of course, that makes a substantial difference to how it affects people in their wallet, when it comes to the daily messages. My second point, if I may. Did I understand correctly from the Secretary of State that this cabinet denies the statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics, has another reading of them or does not confirm them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u255	It's almost three questions. The first question concerned the percentage purchased. We didn't recognize that image directly. In our preparation we had looked at the Planbureau report and at reports received from the Nibud in which this question was also answered. That's where the numbers came from. Of course, there can be differences at individual level. But if you look at the standard families, the difference in relative shares between the low and high VAT rates is not that big. Of course, any measure can hit people with a small wallet harder. You say that VAT increases by 50%. That's always a little babysitting. It is 3% of the total price and we do not yet know whether it will be reflected in the product price. Anyway, that could lead to a price increase. Do not forget that these same families have also been given a higher purchasing power through lower income taxes and other measures in the package. We should always be careful not to take those effects out in isolation and say that that is very bad. Of course, this has a price increase effect for all income groups. Some have a harder time with that than others, but there are some flaws on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u256	The Secretary of State now refers to the CPB study and then it is about the difference between the high and the low rate. But another point, of course, is that the CBS study shows very clearly, and if the Cabinet has not taken note of it, perhaps it should do so, that indirect taxes, including in particular VAT, account for a much higher share of the overall tax burden for the very lowest income groups than for the higher income groups. That is why it does not have the same effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u257	It may well be that this does not seem illogical to me that VAT in general is a larger percentage for people on a smaller stock exchange, but here it was about the ratio between the low VAT rate and the high rate. Of that, I say that if you look at that, the Nibud has also looked at it.You can see that its real effects are much smaller than you might expect. This has to do with the fact that the high income groups also spend a lot of money on low-VAT items, such as food and theatre visits. Of course, there are more examples, but those two jump into the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u258	Mrs. Fox. Do you have any other question than the one that has just been asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u259	I have a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u260	All I'm trying to do is to avoid too many repeats, just the same thing. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u261	My information is that the Nibud has calculated that it would be worth as much as €15 a month for those low incomes, because they really pay a larger share of their messages out of this and that effect is therefore a little greater. In addition, the impact on the small budget is greater. My specific question is that it also has an effect on certain basic products, including healthy products, so that adds to that. The question is whether sufficient consideration has been given to what is really the effect of these measures, especially on people on such incomes that they have to cut back and see if they are going to make ends meet every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u262	The final purchasing power picture we have looked at is, of course, the purchasing power picture including everything we do in income tax and all other measures. There's an image coming out. That says something about the thickness of the wallet, before and after policy. It increases for all income groups. So you could actually say that the disposable income is increasing and that part of it is being returned to the higher VAT. I just wanted to make the point that there is no big difference for high and low income figures as such. There is a difference. I've been standing here. I don't know the report by heart. Frankly, that difference is €5 and not €15. There may indeed be a difference in cases. That's true. On balance, however, there is an improvement in purchasing power for the groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u263	Very briefly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u264	Yes, very briefly and finally on this point. I notice that the government when the SP talks about pennies instead of percentage always says: yes, but that's how I like another one. Do I understand correctly that the Minister is now referring to absolute differences and not to relative differences in terms of the effects of the VAT increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u265	I just said that Nibud calculated that the difference between the average purchasing power effect of the VAT increase and the impact on the model family that would be most affected by a VAT increase is €5 per month. That is what I said, and I have repeated it here once again. I also had more questions about VAT, so some of these elements could just come back. Mr Schalk asked, for example, whether all the Dutch would improve on this package. I have already said that all income groups, including all other effects, are improving, but that of course this is not the case for every individual Dutchman. Then Mr Postema, Mrs Vos and Mr Koffeman asked for insight into the choice of citizens through the VAT increase and the distinction between products with social advantages or disadvantages, so you have to treat fish or meat differently in one or the other rate. To this end, the VAT increase is, in itself, a free generic measure and thus extends to a rather broad group of comparable products. In fact, there is often a rather limited possibility of substitution to a competitive product. So you could say an apple is going to be more expensive, but a hamburger just as well. It is therefore not at all the case that there is always a kind of different choice with a different VAT rate. Of course, you could say in general that you think that should be done, but because of what is now going on, there is not in itself any deterioration of healthy choices compared to unhealthy choices. They're getting hit the same thing, like, generically. Moreover, the VAT increase is only 3 percentage points and is not known to what extent it is being passed on to the consumer, as I have just said. Very often we have used the example of the hairdresser in the past that if a VAT difference at input is taken as a cost, the entrepreneur himself can choose to pass it on or not and in some cases calculate more extra than the VAT increase was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u266	I understand that we are talking about a generic measure, but that is precisely what the criticism is about. Surely it would be quite conceivable that you bring healthy products or environmentally friendly products to a low or lower VAT rate or even a zero rate and that you bring unhealthy and environmentally unfriendly products to the high VAT rate or a higher VAT rate? That's what the question was about. Why isn't that done? Why is it that a generic measure has been chosen, in which you simply spread a tax increase across the entire population and do not use a tax change as a means of influencing behavior?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u267	I think Mr Koffeman is right. In principle, that would be possible. There are a number of preconditions. The first is that within VAT you are dealing with European laws and regulations. We cannot just choose every rate for every product we want. This would also greatly increase intra-European fraud. In addition, I know that from my own past, in which I have worked with these measures, it is quite difficult, for example, to define a meat tax. So what's meat? Is gravy meat? Is that from an animal product? Even in healthy juices part meat products are used to put the taste in order. I know that we have examined this before in Finance and that the problem of demarcation is often prohibitive in order to achieve the effect you want. In fact, there were also examples I don't know about them anymore.I don't know about them anymore.In fact, with the best of intentions, you do something in a low VAT rate, but that has a kind of reverse effect, because smart use is made of VAT advantage by entrepreneurs. So you have delineation problems, you have European problems and you also have a bit of the choice of the cabinet to consider this VAT measure also as a kind of income measure, in the context of shifting from indirect to direct. This includes a general VAT rate more than a differentiated one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u268	Of course, you have these demarcation problems in all cases, for example in the case of a sugar tax. It's not seen as a problem there. It's just being done. This also applies, of course, to all kinds of other products that are bad for people, such as alcohol. It appears, therefore, that these demarcation problems are very manageable or can be overcome. The question with regard to a general meat tax is: "You will get wider," I don't know if the Secretary of State intended to come back to that in a later block, or if the Cabinet hasn't decided to do so, as the Prime Minister said last week, or if the Cabinet has decided not to do so. That's quite an essential difference. It is very nice to know whether that possibility is still open and, if it is not open, what policy choice lies behind it. The fact is that two of the coalition parties have a meat levy in their electoral programme. So it would be interesting to know if that means something, for example that these two parties have become the underlying parties in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u269	The latter certainly does not seem to me, I say from my own point of view. I think what the Prime Minister said is correct. There is nothing I can do but agree with him. So far, we have not made an explicit choice to do anything else with it than we have done. That really doesn't rule out the possibility of continuing to think. I also have a fiscal greening agenda. That's what I said. We'll have to look into that. We are talking about a general measure, which we have made in a sort of overall package. It is not the case that the choice has already been made to do something with this explicitly. The distinctions remain really difficult, I know from the past. I would like to add two elements, if I may. One is that CPB research has indicated that steering through a reduced VAT rate is generally not a very beneficial policy and is therefore not really a very suitable means of steering. As regards, for example, meat taxes, the PBL has calculated that the increase in VAT on meat has hardly any effect on ammonia emissions or the deposition of nitrogen, and that is actually something you would like to achieve indirectly. There may therefore be other measures to do so than to try to send through VAT. So I don't disagree with the thought. I just think that, again, sending VAT isn't that easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u270	Finally, Mr. Coffeeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u271	I'd love to. Briefly. That means the Secretary of State doesn't go as far as the Prime Minister last week when he said we don't do a meat tax. You say that we are not doing it now, but the possibility is open to do so at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u272	The minister just had a wonderful formulation for what you can do with hope. When you talk about what you want to achieve with a special rate of VAT on meat, and that is actually an environmental objective, I honestly think that VAT is simply not such a suitable means for that. I really think that you should never stop thinking, so if someone thinks of something that works well, doesn't cause problems in execution and doesn't produce border effects, then I think you should take a serious look at it. I'm just saying, the odds of it coming to that aren't very big.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u273	In addition to what has already been discussed with the Minister, I would like to draw attention to the fact that some matters in cabinet policy seem to be rather contradictory. On the one hand, there is talk of combating illiteracy, on the other hand, VAT on books and newspapers will go up. On the one hand, there is a commitment to a healthier lifestyle, on the other hand, the price of healthy products increases. That is precisely what we are calling for attention to be given to, even after the follow-up study, when it comes, to make a very precise assessment of whether the current intentions are all so consistent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u274	I don't know if there was a question attached to this. I don't really believe it, so maybe I'll continue my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u275	Mr. Postema is coming up with a question right now, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u276	Then I have a question mark over it. You can see that we have to be careful and that it does not give us a pass on the one hand to allocate EUR 5 million for investigative journalism or the fight against illiteracy, and on the other hand to say that the books are going to be more expensive. By the way, that's complicated with a fixed book price, so how is that supposed to be? My question to the Secretary of State is whether we can trust that he will handle it very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u277	I'm just trying to distill out the exact question. I do not think that the measures taken by this cabinet are intrinsically contradictory. The fact that you are levying a tax for which you have a purpose and there is also a tax that drives that goal a little bit, that's what the world is like. I do think you should try to limit that as much as possible. If you know the effects of this in advance, you have to keep looking at it with common sense. That's what we're trying to do. That's actually the answer I just gave about the VAT on meat. I understand very well that meat consumption has really negative effects on the emissions of all kinds of greenhouse gases that we do not want. As a cabinet, we must continue to think about this. I was just wondering if VAT was the most appropriate means of doing so. That was actually the point I just made. Mr Postema also asked me about the impact of the VAT increase on small businesses. That is a difficult question, because it could go on different sides, almost contradictory. On the one hand, the package of measures that we are taking, including VAT measures, leads to more purchasing power. This, of course, leads to more spending in itself, including with the shopkeeper and with the middle class. So there's generally a positive effect in that. Of course, it is possible that a small business sells mainly products that fall under the reduced rate, and that can certainly be the case in a border region. This applies a little more to excise duties than to VAT goods, and the impact of this is also different. These effects can indeed occur on an individual level. In contrast to the limited shrinkage of these effects, which is usually temporary, the experience of the latter often shows growth in another sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u278	Much has already changed over shrinkage and border. I would add a third element, which has already been mentioned. The groups in this House and yourself have undoubtedly been approached by many trade associations on this issue, not least that of tourism. That can also be in the middle of the country, that the net is slightly different and that one prefers the Eifel rather than the Veluwe. Would you like to give a serious picture of that kind of concern in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u279	Sure. Indeed, Mr Postema explicitly asked about the border effects; we were almost there. Mr Van Strien, Mr Ten Hoeve and Mr Nagel also asked about the border effects of this VAT measure. This has already been looked at by the tax administration. It concluded that not all goods and services were sensitive to the border effects. I'll read out: "The products in the reduced rate are eligible only for books, medicines and certain types of food." The border effects of Dutch-language books are possible in, for example, the border region with Flanders, but books are only a small part of the basis of the total reduced rate. Also in the case of medicines, the extent of the border effects seems limited to date. This may also have to do with brand preferences, but also with the overall price level, which is lower in some countries than in others. This applies, for example, to medicines. By the way, food prices, a large part, are also relatively low in the Netherlands compared to our neighbouring countries. The official group's assessment was that an increase of 3%, of which we do not yet know whether it will be reflected in the price, would not entail a major change in the composition of the package of goods at the border. Mrs Barth and Mrs Vos asked for an analysis of the social impact of the VAT increase. First of all, I think we will all agree here that a good analysis of any kind of policy is always extremely important and that you should know as much as possible before doing anything. But sometimes it's also the question of whether you can actually investigate something. Here's a pretty complicated question. I think that in general you could say that an increase in VAT at the expense of a direct tax, for example the taxation of labour, as this cabinet does, has been seen by both the OECD and the IMF as a welfare-enhancing measure for years. Today we should not call it all greening because we think more of environmental measures, but in itself the shift from a direct tax to an indirect tax is welfare-enhancing. The same applies to the package of measures here. The overall impact of the measures has, of course, been taken into account by the CPB and this is due to an increase in consumption of 0.6% per year. So cumulatively, the package of measures leads to an increase in consumption of almost 2.5% over this period of government. This is something of a social effect, but not of an isolated VAT increase. Then comes the second part of the story, which is that at micro level we are very difficult to estimate what it means. You have to create a kind of impact assessment in which you do a ceteris paribus of purchasing power effects, in which you have to have a kind of preference and in which you have to take with you whether there is another product. In fact, I have had this discussion with Mr Snels in the House of Representatives, and I have hardly ever had to look seriously at that kind of effect individually. You can say something about it in general, but not on an individual level. So, all in all, I think that the combination of these measures, together with the other measures in the coalition agreement, will lead to a positive contribution to prosperity in the Netherlands. There were a number of questions about pensions. Some were somewhat open, such as Mr Van Rij's question. He asked: could the Secretary of State be more specific about the problems in the general system? I can talk about that for a long time. I will try to summarize briefly how we are looking at that now. Because of the average system, young people and older people are currently paying the same amount, despite the fact that young people's contributions can, of course, be more profitable. The average system thus leads to an undesirable redistribution between young and old, between low-skilled and highly educated. This has put pressure on the solidarity of the current system. Moreover, the old reasoning, say in the last century, did not make it young versus old, but your younger self versus your older self, always pay up when people had long-term permanent jobs, but in a more flexible labour market we also find that argument less and less convincing. So it says in the coalition agreement that we would like something to do with this. By the way, this is easier than finding a quick solution, if only because the cabinet is not alone about the pension problems, but also a lot of other people like it. And we also think that these other people should have something to say about that. I hope that Mr Van Rij got about the answer he expected. Otherwise, I'd like to hear it in second term. Mr Van Rij also asked... Oh, that was definitely entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u280	I fully understand the answer you are giving. But I also pointed out the EUR 1 billion earmarked for this purpose and whether you have already developed a start on how that billion can then be used to make this average problem, as you have just described.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u281	The most important answer to this is that, at the moment, under the leadership of Mr Koolmees, I think we are having daily and for weeks talking about how best to do that. Unfortunately, the views of the social partners and the cabinet are still a little far apart. I also think that it is not wise for us to discuss all the efforts from the cabinet here in broad terms. I think the most important thing that comes out of that discussion is that we all think that the system we had is no longer up-to-date and that together we need to ensure that we have a better pension system with more support and that hopefully we can handle it with a little speed. But it's still quite an eggplant, I say. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Rij also asked if I could indicate how many taxpayers chose self-employed pensions in 2017. I don't have the answer to that yet, because I'm not getting that until a little later, namely at the end of the first quarter 2018. The information is currently being collected by the Tax Administration. The latest information forms for 2017 only arrive at the end of January 2018 and shortly afterwards I can answer that question. Moreover, my predecessor has already indicated that we will inform your Chamber every year about the number of dgafs that make use of the redemption scheme. Of course, we will not change that policy. Then there are a number of questions about self-employed people and bogus self-employment. Mrs. Sent asked about that among other things. Mr Ester also had questions about this. What about the DBA? When has the implementation been properly implemented by the Tax Administration? I think that these are all very legitimate questions, especially in view of the strong discussions in recent years on how to deal with them. I would nevertheless like to refer back to an analysis that we often bring to the fore, the interdepartmental policy research on self-employed people without staff, done in 2015. It analysed the problems surrounding the DBA and presented various variants. Well, in the meantime, a variant had been chosen that no one could ultimately count on. In short, it has been said that we are not going to maintain it as it is. The enforcement Moratorium will therefore remain in place for a while. At the same time, this cabinet, and I and my colleague Mr Koolmees, would like to move forward quickly to see how we can do it. The coalition agreement gives a small impetus to this, with three groups, the lowest of which, with people who we see a bit as people who are really not independent, I will not mention the company name, but the food supply is trying to create a kind of sham self-employment that we do not love. Those kinds of constructions, I'll say, we'd rather take on sooner than later. But it has not yet been said how we will then settle it for the large group of people who are still in doubt whether they are self-employed or not. They're working hard on that. In 2018, so actually early next year, we start with consultation from the sector. This should hopefully lead to an image of which direction we should go. This will then be transposed into legislation together with Social Affairs. We hope to have that legislation completed in 2019 and to arrange it in such a way that everyone is satisfied with it. How we deal with the enforcement Moratorium, for example, until then, is something that has also emerged in the budgetary treatment of SZW. There the Minister promised a letter on the labour market, on the measures contained in the government agreement and specifically on the measures to replace the DBA. I will ask the Minister, which will probably be tomorrow morning, if this letter can also be sent to your Chamber, so that you can understand it. Mrs Sent has also earned an answer from me to the question about the differences between employees and employees. I would like to say that this is not just a matter of taxation. Social security also contains a number of elements which are carefully looked at. That too is an alignment with the Minister for Social Affairs. Then Mr De Grave also asked me for a response to reports that the proposed increase in the box 2 tariff would break through a balanced taxation between IB entrepreneurs and dga debt holders. He also asked a slightly more technical question about what all that would mean for the old profit reserves. First of all: I understand the concern, because this is a story that I too have been told more often. Then it's often because people who hear that think that a box-2 tariff increase is a kind of separate measure, but that's just not it. Box 2 is also seen in the light of what an entrepreneur does in the IB or in the Vpb. That's what we call the global balance. If you look at the states of the global balance in any form of entrepreneurship, whether you're talking about the IB in box 2 or in the Vpb, you can see that the balance is actually maintained. In fact, everyone's getting better. Let me give you an example: an employee is now 52% in IB and is going to go to 49.5%. The IB entrepreneur is now at 44.7% and moving to 43.5%. A dga............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A dga with a profit of more than two tons sat at 43.8% and goes to 43.5%. The picture in the new plan the box-2 entrepreneur is getting worse, is therefore not recognized by us and I do not think by those who calculated these disks either. His second question was about the accumulated claimed profit reserves. This is part of a bill we're going to deal with next year. I didn't really want to anticipate that too much right now. However, I have already replied in the note in response to the CDA's report on questions that I do not think it would be desirable to take into account the accumulated claimed profit reserves, as this leads to complex legislation, a significant increase in administrative burdens for business and, again, high implementation costs for the Tax Administration. However, we should not anticipate too much: next year, I think, this will be discussed extensively. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. Mrs Sent asked the difficult question, if I understood her correctly, whether it was true that all the tax revenues of companies that we would have missed through tax avoidance should be borne by households. There would be some kind of balancing: because there is tax avoidance, the poor citizens now have to pay more. But if you look at what we're doing in the coalition agreement, you're actually seeing a load relief. It is much stronger on the family side than on the business side. So we didn't really recognize that image that would fall down on balance. So also the skewing in that is something I may leave in the middle, but if you look at the figures, it is not. Then Mrs Sent also asked which reforms of the tax system I would consider desirable. She made explicit reference to the opinions of the Van Dijkhuizen Commission. Here's what I want to say. I intend to send a letter to the House of Representatives in February, which will probably be the end of February, and I am also thinking of your Chamber, which we are going to refer to as the fiscal policy agenda, in which we actually want to see the tax system on all parts together, at once, in order to show what plans we have for the coming years. Then we will take all the elements, including a number of opinions from the Van Dijkhuizen Committee. But since we are still building this letter, I hope Mrs Sent will be satisfied that we will come back to it a little later in the beginning of next year and then have a more extensive exchange of views. There were also questions about the digital economy. The first one was about the bitcoin and the blockchain. That is always an interesting subject of discussion. I always notice that I have to think very hard about exactly what that is. We are now informed every day via various media reports that the bitcoin is a wonderful investment. I would very much like to endorse everything the Minister has said before, namely that people who think that need to think again, because of course it is not. But what about it? Because it does represent value. That was explained very nicely this weekend by an employee of the Tax Administration in a broadcast of Radar. I can imagine that not everyone has looked at this on weekends, so that's why I'm saying it again here. The bitcoin is seen as a crypto coin. A crypto coin is also seen by the Tax Administration as a means of payment. The bitcoin is treated equal to foreign currency. But that does not mean that you can have some kind of deposit guarantee scheme for that, as the Minister said. It's not a bank account or what goes with it, it's a foreign currency. Like other foreign currencies, such as gold, bitcoins should be indicated in box 3. That means there's just a reference date, there's a value and it's taxed. At the same time, one can ask oneself the following question: if so, how does the Tax Administration control that? That is always complicated, but that also applies to gold and well-hidden notes of €50 in an old sock. It's kind of hard to do that. We still assume that Dutch tax morals are high. A lot of people indicate how many possessions they have. But if you really don't want to, then you can try to get them out of sight of the IRS. It is indeed an issue to check, but the taxpayer is considered to carry it as a value in box 3.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u282	I very much appreciate that Mr Backer asked this question. You give a clear answer, namely that it is taxed in box 3. Then it is undoubtedly about a taxable person resident in the Netherlands who does nothing about it. I assume that when dealing with bitcoins, we can also get situations in which it is taxed in box 1, either as a result of the rest of the business or as a profit from business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u283	Here speaks a fiscalist who knows how to display the box-model beautifully. You just have to look at whether all these investments were indeed so good at the time they were made that they could be seen as some kind of income element. For the time being, I think we are assuming that a flat-rate return will apply. Whether that will connect closely to the actual efficiency of the bitcoin, we do not know. But this is the tax stake we're going to use.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u284	I have one last question about this. The Secretary of State rightly said that the problem is in control. The other day, I was sitting next to a guy on a plane who was in smells and colors telling me he was buying bitcoins. That was a little new for me, too, so I let him talk a little bit. When he heard I knew something about tax law, he asked, "Should I report it?" I said, "Yeah, that's what you have to say in box 3. But the problem is, of course, in control. Could the banks not play a role in this respect? I understand there are only a limited number of parties where you can buy such an account. Isn't there a task for the Dutch banks to report this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u285	I do not think these bitcoins are being held at what we call Dutch banks with a banking license. That might be possible, but I don't think all bitcoins are being held there. But maybe I misunderstood that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u286	What I mean is, you have to pay off some money somewhere. If you want to invest $10,000 in bitcoins, you'll have to buy an account somewhere in the United States or I know where. Apparently, there are only a limited number of parties. That'll be written off from your bank account. In this respect, a bank could have a reporting obligation. Anyway, it's just a thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u287	Of course, Mr Van Rij is quite right about that. There's also just a renegade. If you do this to an American bank, all kinds of rules have been in place since FATCA. That information will be exchanged. Eventually, selling every investment item, including the bitcoin, has to be knocked down in money held somewhere. Fortunately, most countries in the world are willing to share this with us, so that we can include it in our taxation. Mr. Chairman. This was the first block. It was a bit ripe and green, but there were also many questions asked about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u288	I hope you can finish with all your cubes by 9.30 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u289	I really hope so, too. I'll see if I can do that. I'll try to keep the pace high. The second block dealt with the tax environment and the approach to tax avoidance. What's the cabinet like now? The government agreement clearly states that we want to keep an eye on a competitive locational environment. At the same time, however, we want to continue the fight against international tax avoidance and evasion. Although the tax environment is broader than just a fiscal policy, as the Minister said, and other important examples have been mentioned, it is nevertheless a relevant part of it. On the one hand, we are talking about the Vpb tariff. This will be substantially reduced to just below the European average. That's misunderstood. At the moment, we are slightly above the European average. On the other hand, we are abolishing the dividend tax. That too has been said this evening. Moreover, it is not the case that the cabinet is handing out gifts to business. That image is sometimes brought forward. In addition to the burdens I have just mentioned, there is a rather solid package. I would like to mention, for example, the environmental package for companies, but also the broadening of the corporate tax base. Think, for example, of the increase in the rate in the Innovation Box, the limitation of loss relief and a more equal treatment of equity and debt, which is a very strong one. Mr Backer has just indicated that this is not a small step forward. We want to take the lead over and over again in abolishing the dividend tax in combination with two other extremely important measures. In the same year a withholding tax is introduced on dividends in abusive situations and low tax jurisdictions, the low tax countries, to put it bluntly. We'll do that by 2020. In the years after that, we're going to set up something else. The Netherlands is truly unique in that. We are not following anything, we are not bothering and we are not laggards. We are one of the first to introduce a withholding tax for interest and royalty rebates. In addition to these unilateral measures, the Cabinet will implement the anti-tax avoidance directives, the so-called ATAD 1 and ATAD 2 directives. The focus of this package is on a real economy. We want an interesting location climate, not for streamers and mailboxes, but for real economy. Why do we want to do that? Because it creates jobs, jobs and prosperity. It's about accent differences and how the en-en approach used to be and now. In the past, it was not a problem that there were measures which reduced the protection of the basis of other countries. But now we say: we don't want to be a part of it anymore. We believe that the source taxes that we envisage on dividends, interest rates and royalty rebates are going to be extremely effective measures. In fact, the announcement of the measures already leads to less construction. I would now like to mention a few measures, but we think this is so important that we are going to issue a separate letter at the beginning of next year, alongside the fiscal policy agenda, in which we will pay particular attention to the tax environment. In response to a number of previous media statements about that we would be obstructing, we sent a letter to the House of Representatives at her request................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally, we would also like to come up with a cabinet response to the evaluation of the 30% regime. It was mentioned tonight, too. We'll see if that arrangement still does what we want. So there are several routes. We are tackling tax avoidance hard, not only at national level, but also at European and international level, within the OECD. At the same time, we also want to ensure a good and real locational environment. I have actually answered Mr Rinnooy Kan's question. He asked me how I look at this story and at European tax harmonisation, which is also under pressure. I think it's very and-and very. Much of the European harmonisation currently focuses on tax avoidance and evasion. The Netherlands wants to play a leading role in this and is already doing so. At the same time, there is discussion about the CCCB. I'll come back to that in a minute. Should we not all move towards a single European tax base for companies? In theory there is something to say for that, but in practice it still seems difficult to find something that is equally beneficial for all countries. Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mrs Vos and Mr Ten Hoeve actually said that we are racing to the bottom, and that the cabinet is setting the wrong example. So I would like to repeat once again that we in the Vpb are currently slightly above the European average. It is said that we are already too low, but we are not. We're gonna be okay. And then we get a little below the European average, but then we get into a very similar group of countries with which we want to be seen, namely the Scandinavian countries. And I do not think they are part of what is called a race to the bottom, if only because, as I have just said, there is also a broadening of the basics of a tariff reduction. What you really have to look at in tax terms is the effective rate, which then looks very different. For speed, I'll skip a few smaller things. Mr Rinnooy Kan also asked the Cabinet to further assess the impact of the policy change on the tax preferential treatment of debt over equity, and to consider whether there was no room for further tightening. That's what we're doing right now. The ATAD 1 Directive actually started out as a kind of anti-tax avoidance measure, but the Netherlands went beyond the European minima in it. We had the choice to do so, for example, by not including group exception and no respectful effect and lowering the threshold. Those are things we choose to do ourselves. This leads, on balance, to a structural budgetary loss, I am sorry, revenue, and I have already spoken out in the House of Representatives of 1.4 billion. In his words, that was a welcome start, and I would actually like to say that this is quite an ambitious step. This is a considerable tightening of the way we look at equity and debt. Moreover, the Cabinet will try to monitor the impact of this measure, which is quite robust, by looking at the development of the relationship between equity and debt business. I also note that the Minister has already said something about Basel III.5 or IV. Also, the capital requirements that a bank must maintain ultimately lead to a higher level of equity in relation to the debt. At the moment, a further tightening up is not yet on the table. Let us first see how the effects are and whether they really have the desired result. Mr Van Rij also asked about the effects of US tax reforms. I think that this morning a very nice letter was sent by five European countries to the US Finance Minister. They express their concern about a number of America First-like measures contained therein. On the one hand, America is carrying out normal measures. That's how they bring down the Vpb. There are even some elements in the atmosphere of the exemption in which the Netherlands also has. Unfortunately, however, there are also a lot of trade restrictive measures. That's what we're worried about. These proposals were not adopted, by the way. They're still between Senate and House. So we keep a close eye on that, especially if it will also have effects on trade flows with America. Mr Ester had a very interesting question about my ambitions. What legacy do I want to leave on the tax avoidance file? That's kind of an interesting question. I have a much shorter answer for this than I could possibly say. First of all, it is important to say that the approach to tax avoidance is extremely high on the agenda of the cabinet and of me. At this stage of the discussion, however, we are often struck by a wave of measures that often date from a number of years ago, 2008 to 2009. They'll give us an image. We must make it clear that we are not just telling beautiful stories, but that we are actually doing something. If you ask me about my ambitions for the next three and a half years, I hope we have managed to explain to everyone that the Netherlands really has a different en-en approach, that the Netherlands still has a good locational environment, but not by getting rich from tax avoidance but by getting rich from the real economy. That is what we are doing and we have a series of measures for that. I hope that by then I will be able to leave it as a legacy that people in our country and in the rest of Europe believe that it has succeeded. That's what I'm aiming for. Mrs Sent also asked about the approach to tax constructions and tax avoidance and what commitment she could expect in this area. Can it assume that the cabinet will make an effort to get legislation against tax avoidance off the ground quickly? Mr Ten Hoeve also asked for a cabinet view on tax avoidance. In fact, I have just given an answer to that: we are going to do so quickly. In part, we are going to commit ourselves to this, and in part we need to do so internationally because it is more effective. We are very much in favour of the blacklist. Contrary to some reports, we have always said that the list is fine because of naming-and-shaming, but it is not bad at all if some more stringent sanctions are attached to it. In this context, we have also said that it may well be that, when it comes to our own source taxes, we are going to look at the blacklist. We're not gonna say we're linking that 100%. We need to see what happens, how many countries remain on that list. Should that list develop, should it become stricter? But the idea behind it is, of course, that we designate internationally a number of countries that do not want to participate, that do not want to exchange information, that do not want to give information about what they are doing or that effectively leave a far too low tax. That's what we need to focus on. Part of the list may well be used for our own legislative proposals. What I have not mentioned yet, and that is quite an important element in tax avoidance, is that the cabinet will shortly also present a legislative proposal in which we want the multilateral instrument to be ratified. This will enable us to apply all the measures taken by the OECD in its BEPS measure for the minimum standards to all our tax treaties at once. So instead of having to negotiate something in a lot of tax treaties, this new instrument allows us to apply it to a large number of countries participating in it at once. This also makes the anti-tax avoidance products much more effective in one fell swoop. Once again, I will return to this in February in a letter to your Chamber. Mr Ten Hoeve has asked whether we can join the blacklist. I just told you we think that's a good idea. We need to see exactly how we're gonna do that. They also asked about what Moscovici said. Honestly, I don't know why he said that so explicitly. It is a Commission proposal, but it was finally adopted in the Ecofin Council. So he said: it is not only what we think is a good idea on behalf of the Commission, but you all seem to think it is a good idea, because you all have to agree, because this list has been adopted unanimously. And if you do it in a Council, it is of course important that we really support it. Mr Van Rij asked about our commitment to the CCCTB and the CCCTB. For this purpose, I refer to a BNC sheet, which was also seen by your Chamber and the House of Representatives, in which a negative subsidiarity judgment, a kind of yellow card, was given. In a sense, the Netherlands has also brought that yellow card constructively into those meetings. We were also told from the Chamber that setting up a common consolidated tax base is not the way we want to do that. We're not against the idea. We didn't threaten to veto it either. Moreover, we have not conspired with a number of other countries. No, we have just made it quite clear, as it should be, that we are constructive, but that we have received a yellow card from the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. Moreover, I must also say that there have been no significant developments in this debate in the last six months. As a afterburner one more about the digital economy, the GAFA tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u290	I had asked about the reporting of the NIS on 5 December. Did the Secretary of State now answer that question? I have another question. The Netherlands has, of course, received strong criticism because of the wide possibilities here to avoid tax via all kinds of constructions. Are you going to pursue such a policy that we will soon, as it were, lead Europe in this area? 'Cause you say we're gonna go hard on it and so on. I'm just trying to figure out what it's gonna look like later. We are now really in a position in which we are subjected to incredibly much criticism. Are we gonna lead the way? Is that the commitment of your policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u291	That's a good question. You can look ahead in all kinds of ways. In this sense, we want to take the lead, for example, in the case of rule-making practices and other measures taken by everyone, in all countries, in making it perfectly clear what they are doing and that they are telling us so. Then we agree on an international framework, for example a black list, but that can also be the ATAD directives, and it is not trained when it comes to introducing them. It would be worth something to me if it appeared that we, as one of the first countries, are perhaps the very first, I do not know if this can still be done by introducing and complying with these directives. You are right: we recently received an OECD report, which actually asks: what exactly is the situation with regard to the tax rotation and the exchange of data? We got that report last Monday. We were quite satisfied with that. With a certain part we were just not in time we had already seen it a year ago, but together with all the other countries we said: before 2018 we will make it. The research report indicates that the Netherlands is exchanging even more information than the minimum directive is. We were expecting this to be seen, you see, we are not waiting or training everywhere; we also want to show that it is serious for us to do so. And yet it's very difficult to tell. I might understand that, too, given where we're from. So I understand that somewhere is the message that other countries say: The Netherlands has a nice story, but we haven't seen anything yet. My wish, therefore, is that, by implementing the directives and tackling tax avoidance, we also show that and that people say: what Secretary of State Snel said about this was not just nice talk, but was also just true. That's where I want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u292	For example, the Netherlands is still at the top of the list of countries in terms of letterbox companies, but that kind of thing is going to change? So we're all going to reduce that type of construction, and we're just going to let ourselves be companies that also contribute to the real economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u293	I don't think the word "constructions" here might be entirely happy. "Constructions." Sounds like something I didn't mean to do. Many of these measures are criticised. For example, the Dutch participation exemption is criticised, and of course we want to keep it. The same applies to our ruling practice. The fact that you can make an appointment with Dutch tax authorities within the laws and regulations is a big good. We don't want to throw that away. That the Netherlands keeps an attractive and open economy and therefore always, even when it comes to investment flows, hopefully remains a bit at the top, I am also okay with it. I just don't think it's okay that this is pure and alone in... An example of this is a construction like the hybrid mismatches. The example of Nike... I may not mention names here, but it has been in the newspaper... has received a lot of attention a few years ago. For example, the implementation of ATAD 2 will no longer allow for this type of hybrid mismatches. That, I think, is the answer to the question. The NIS gave five examples that were thought to be troubling us. I do not think I should go into that now, but in a letter which I believe I sent to the House of Representatives this morning, I go into all these five points, to point out that some perceptions are really not right either. Mr. Chairman. The point of the GAFA tax was mentioned. This is about the way the Netherlands looks at the global playing field when it comes to the digital economy. That's what I think it comes down to, actually. Here too, it must be made clear that the Netherlands did not want to interfere with this in the discussions in Brussels either. That picture was created, but we have said: we have to be a little careful that we move too quickly towards a tax, and certainly a European tax, because if it is there, then it is also there that does not do what you really want. We do think it is important to know that the world and the economy are changing. The well-known principle that we are trying to tax value where it is created by the new platform economy, so to speak, and become really different by the digital economy. We need solutions for that, so we can and do not want anything other than to be a precursor in that. We have a lot of strong fiscal thinking capital in the Netherlands. We just want to start using the digital economy. It is, of course, true that tax avoidance will have less effect if you do this with five countries and the rest of the world does not participate. So that's not to say: we can't do it until the whole world does. I imagine someone would say, "Well, that's never gonna happen." No, starting in Europe would be very good, but we should not start too soon to show what we can do if we do not expect any effect from such a measure. There were also questions about the tax rate. Mr De Grave asked about the high tax rate. He actually said: "It's pretty unfair, or at least it's felt that way." It's asymmetrical. Why don't you join a more market-oriented interest rate? In itself, this call is understandable. He's certainly not the only one who said this. In fact, in the House of Representatives, a motion was adopted by a member of the party, by Mrs De Vries, in which the cabinet is called upon to examine to what extent the current regulation of interest rates is reasonable, fair and fair and the percentages applied are market-oriented, and which possible points of attention and improvement would be possible. I think this is more or less the same question. I will also include your contribution today in this motion, so to speak. I will try to report on this before 1 July.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u294	I was very well aware of that motion in the House of Representatives, but I think this is something else. This is a very concrete suggestion, namely to link it to the real rate of return, to that discussion. I tried to explain that, too. If you say to the citizen you have to compensate for a real return on your savings, then it is also logical that the citizen pays what the tax authority has missed on real returns at the time of late payment to the tax authority. So there was a logic in that. The motion in the House of Representatives was actually general, so of the system is not good, do something else. This really is a concrete suggestion. So if you could promise me that you would take this specific suggestion with you in the context of the revision of the tax rate, and I asked for it, then that motion could be omitted. That motion asks you to investigate this and to identify the advantages and disadvantages. If you wish to take this specific point with you in the context of the motion of the House of Representatives, then the motion may be omitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u295	Mr President, I would like to say this to Mr De Grave. Then the third block. I have only referred to pollution as a higher price. We are talking about the further greening of the Netherlands. This includes a further greening of the tax system. As I said, greening can be seen in two patterns. The first is the shift from direct to indirect, but the emphasis must of course be on polluter-pays-as-you-go principles. I think we have already made quite a lot of plans in the cabinet and in the coalition agreement. For example, I refer specifically to the national CO minimum price. There is quite a strong price increase for energy. The question of whether this is not too harsh has also been discussed several times. We want to price pollution. This also includes the fact that there is an increase in energy prices. Although it is compensated by lowering income tax, the incentive is, of course, that the person who uses too much also pays more. Moreover, we also balance energy taxation better in relation to CO emissions. We want to make a difference between what electricity and gas does. We will indeed replace the netting scheme in the energy tax with a more cost-effective subsidy scheme. That's what was asked. We do this because the current regime is often perceived as difficult. The Cabinet will increase the rate on the incineration and landfill of waste from 2019. The question was, why don't we do that sooner? This has to do with legislation and implementation, so 2019 is actually the first year that we can do anything. Moreover, this cabinet improves the pricing of flying, although not in the form of a direct kerosene tax, which you could also say for, but by taxing dirty and noisy aircraft. The most beautiful thing is if everyone in the world does that, then it would be nice if we did it in Europe, but it is also very important for us to see if we could get Germany and Belgium involved in this, for example, so that we can have less shift effects. It's already in Germany. In Belgium they have a smaller tax, but slightly lower than ours. So I will look into whether, for example, I cannot agree with my Belgian colleague that he is introducing the same type of tax. If he doesn't want to, then it's obvious: we'll move on, even without them doing it. So the intention to start is there. It is, by the way, one of the most efficient taxes available. In many cases efficient taxes are also much hated measures, as I remember from a few years ago when I think the cabinet had a one-year flight tax. We are also abolishing the bpm refund scheme for taxi fares. This measure also provides for a strong pricing of CO2 emissions from taxi cars. Finally, a measure which I would like to mention concerns the landlord levy. Money is also being released for landlords who invest in making their housing stock more sustainable. That's $100 million. To tenants who say that they cannot directly adapt their homes and make them environmentally efficient, I do say that they can at least say to their landlords that landlords can get a lot of subsidies for them if they do. In that sense we hope to be able to involve the tenants. Then there were a number of questions about how this is precisely divided between citizens and companies in greening. For energy taxation and the storage of renewable energy, we know that the distribution between companies and households is fifty-fifty. Of course, there are many more measures. I'm not all about that. The Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate today sent a letter to the House of Representatives on the average energy bill for households. I will ask him to send a copy of that letter, in which he gives a very precise account of the composition of the letter, to your Chamber. The Minister of EZK also asked the Planning Office for the Environment to zoom in on the energy bill for all kinds of specific income groups in addition to the average household energy bill in the National Energy Exploratory 2018. I think there might actually be more content in that than I can give you right now. A lot of measures have not yet been put in place and so I cannot yet tell you how they will come down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u296	Does the Secretary of State pay attention to the relative share of citizens and businesses in the greening exercise? Does the Cabinet consider that to be an important consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u297	Yes, I think that is an important consideration, but in the end I think it is even more important that these measures are effective. With other measures, you can make sure that these effects are not too bad for households, but ultimately, of course, you want to reduce CO emissions as efficiently as possible. That is the first point of departure, but the second point of departure is of course also important for this cabinet. Then I come to Mr Koffeman's questions. He asked about the sale and export of hybrid automobiles, about the consequences for the operators of electric charging stations, and if I might have a plan to combat the export of hybrid automobiles. Fiscal stimulation of plug-in hybrids is estimated to be no longer cost-effective and no longer identifiable as greening. That may be because of the huge bubble of hybrid car cyclists bought as a green car, but de facto were hardly used as a green car. Therefore, tax incentives have become more targeted since 2017. It's now specifically focused on fully electric auto-screws. It has always been said that the border must be moved a little bit every time. What was environmentally friendly ten years ago does not have to be the best for the next ten years. So I really want us to try to push that line. By the way, 100,000 plug-in hybrids were sold in 2017. Of these, about 2,500 have now been exported. So these plug-in hybrids aren't exported massively. Moreover, if these plug-in hybrids are exported to countries such as Bulgaria, Ukraine or Romania, I would rather see those people driving in them than in the cars they drive on average. It would be nice if the replacement investment in the Netherlands would be in a fully electric car.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u298	We want private individuals to have the plug-in hybrid here. Those cars are substantially more expensive than other cars. Then you have to make it attractive, when those plug-in hybrids come out of the lease, to ride in it and prevent Hungarian individuals from driving it? Your predecessor said last year: it is a global problem, so it does not matter whether those cars are driving here or there. That's a very short turn. If you want to encourage more environmentally friendly driving, also because of the fine dust, I would say: do so here and keep it here. The question is why does the cabinet encourage business drivers, for example, to drive 15 years old, or even older, youngtimers? They switch massively to old diesels and old petrol cars that are environmentally unfriendly. Why doesn't the Cabinet want such a hybrid car service? You are now saying that hybrid cars are not very environmentally friendly, but those fifteen-year-old or twenty-year-old youngtimers are not at all. So explain why the one scheme still exists, while at the same time preventing the export of relatively economical, clean vehicles doesn't really bother you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u299	Well, it's not like that. That doesn't bother me at all. I tried to point out that exports of environmentally friendly motor vehicles from the Netherlands are not wrong in themselves. You say it would be nice if those cars just kept driving here. Besides, it would be nice if they were plugged in, because that is a bit of the problem we have felt. I would like to say that, for example, the second-hand market for plug-in hybrids is already being strongly stimulated by a half-price in the MRB. So if you buy a second-hand hybrid, your MRB fare will be halved. That's compared to a car that doesn't have a reasonable price advantage and especially for cars that are only a few years old. So don't underestimate that as an effect. Moreover, the number of electric cars sold may be better than Mr Koffeman thinks, because in 2017 that sales went much faster than in the years before. In the meantime 19.000 fully electric cars are already driving in the Netherlands, making us one of the leading drivers in the world in the field of electric driving.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u300	Following. It's known that a lot of these electric automobiles are poorly deliverable. For example, many Teslaets are exported from the Netherlands to Norway, because there is additional demand there. For Ampera-Effens you can now get a surcharge of €10,000 if you immediately export it to Norway. That's not supposed to happen, is it? You say you want more electric cars here. Try to encourage this and try to prevent exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u301	I therefore believe that we are greatly stimulating in the field of electric motor vehicles. That is also the reason for the success, I think. All tax incentives are now focused on these fully electric car trailers. If it is an issue of supply that has a restrictive effect, I hope that we can appeal to a lot of entrepreneurial spirit in the Netherlands to make sure that we can do something about it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Koffeman also asked about the increase in the waste tax and why this measure does not start until 2019. I have just said that this is not unwillingness, but that it is an orderly introduction and implementation. The question about pension funds has already been answered by the Minister, I think. It was asked why the CO-minimum price should not be introduced before 2020. This is a completely new tax; in fact, it has not yet been definitively decided that it should become a CO tax. However, we agreed that there should be a minimum price. I am currently working hard on the Minister of EZK to see how we can do this best. If we have to make legislation now, it will be very difficult to implement it before 2020. I've had the flight tax, too. In fact, Mr Koffeman felt that the polluter pays principle did not come back in the coalition agreement. I have just mentioned seven measures, which I think are not entirely correct. Finally, I will go into the Tax Office in this block, because I have not actually said anything about that yet. As I said, the modernisation of the Tax Administration is one of the most important priorities for the coming years, including tax avoidance. In the first few weeks I have been forced to deal with the Tax Plan, the Hills Act and the debates on it in the Chamber. I've spent a little less time with company visits to the IRS to see what's happening there. I have a long debate with the House of Representatives next Thursday about the Tax Administration. Then we will discuss hundreds of pages of reports with good recommendations and improvements regarding the Tax Administration. I would not want to do all that now, but I do think that two things remain important: the feasibility and continuity of the Tax Administration. The Tax Office still raises 1 billion euros every day. That won't be in any danger. We really need to keep that part going, even though there are incidents. We need a great deal of modernisation in the Tax Administration, where we need to move more towards digitalisation, without being an end in itself. That calls for a recalibrate. For the precise review agenda, I asked the House of Representatives for some time, because I think it is just too early to indicate exactly how I want to change that and start doing it. I promise I'll get back to that soon. The half-billion that the cabinet has cleared for this, I want to spend usefully, efficiently and efficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u302	Mrs. Fox, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u303	I have one more question at the greening block. The government agreement states that in 2021 citizens will pay EUR 943 million in greening and businesses will pay EUR 411 million. The question is why citizens pay twice as much as businesses in 2021 and whether you think that is balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u304	I may have left one or two questions in my speed to get the time span. I think I have an answer to that. Shall I return to it in second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u305	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u306	Mr. Van de Ven, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u307	With all due respect, Madam President, I shall speak for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u308	That has nothing to do with it. I'm just looking at the clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u309	Thank you very much. I can be pretty short. I have also contributed to the debate this morning, but no question has been raised, let alone answered. Maybe there's another piece of paper with the answers. Given the reaction of the Secretary of State outside the microphone, thank you very much, I await with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u310	I'll do my best. I can tell you I have the next cubes. I haven't said anything about the block of "Hillen" yet, as you've heard. I still have the block of "Taxation Plan', which includes medicines, agricultural regulations and system changes. It's a lot smaller cubes. This was really the general block. Finally, I have the block of 'OFFM', in which we come to discuss, among other things, the taxation of donations and inheritances and the policy decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u311	I very much appreciate your speed, because we have an hour and a half from the Chamber in the second term. After that, the directors also have to respond in second term. So it's gonna be a late night. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u312	I believe the Secretary of State does honor his name. Let's talk about taxes and the IRS. Questions have been asked about this in this Chamber. Part of that discussion has been stirred up. We've also been sent the documents. It's an extremely thick report. It all looks very solid. I have a question for the Secretary of State. What did he find? What is the political weighting of what he found? A technical report is interesting, but the Secretary of State is looking fresh at it. What did he find and how could he turn that into good business?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u313	It is tempting to say something about this now, but I think the next thing is more important. What you find is footage. I just want to sort it out a little bit. I'm gonna have to start planning on how we're gonna change this process. Later I might have to say that I should have given a different weighting to what I am saying. In general, I found a service that works very hard to raise money every day for e.g. the Netherlands, with which we can do all kinds of wonderful collective spending. They're people who are proud of their work. They have been very successful for a very long time and still have some very successful dossiers. For example, the pre-filled declaration. Almost 90% of the people have an almost flawless report without having to do anything. Of course, there is little attention to that. There is more attention, especially from the media, to things that go wrong. That is also right, because it is also the role of the media to highlight it. This attention is also from the First and Second Chambers. The people who work there want to improve things, but at the same time they are sometimes limited by a lack of digitalisation. I'll be right back on the gift and inheritance tax. That's such an example where there's been an incident. I'll talk about that in a minute. Of course, everyone finds that very annoying. You can then ask the question how it could have happened that way. That is, I think, a situation of long overdue maintenance of ICT and of very complex legislation with many national and international aspects. Let me put it this way: in the Netherlands, we have legislators in a broad sense with a very instrumentalist approach. We're proud of that, too. We can also do a lot with taxes. We were also talking about greening and other measures. Taxes can be very controlling. Not all of them are: VAT a little less. Because we know that, we use it. Each time, at the end of the journey, the Tax Administration is the party responsible for implementing the measures. In the past, there was hardly any time for this either. What did I find? Well, at any rate, I have found that I am simply going to maintain the deadlines for implementation, to use an unparliamentary term. They also need them to test, not only to see if they can, but, for example, whether they can also be stacked up and coherent with other measures. That system, if you finally have that, you also need to be able to test integrally before you decide to move from an old system to a new system. I don't think those things have been too much of a focus in the past. But I think I can say that everyone is awake and everyone wants to work. A number of adjustments have already been made, including in terms of structure, top structure and enhanced supervision. That's a new situation. That is what we are continuing to do. It is wise to wait until I have the integral picture before going into the question of how exactly I am going to plan and pour all of that into plans. Mr. Chairman. During this debate, I found Mrs Vos's questions on fiscal greening. Citizens would pay twice as much to climate policy. The answer is actually that the cabinet is always looking at a balanced burden-sharing between households and businesses. That's what this cabinet did. It focuses on purchasing power effects and effects on international competitiveness, including those of industry. In this section, Mrs Vos, of course, shows a very specific part, namely what it means for the reduction or increase of charges in the field of greening or climate policy. But there is, of course, an overall picture, in which families and households are indeed given greater relief than, for example, business. This means that almost all households, or indeed all households, are making progress, in groups, but also largely at individual level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u314	Mrs. Vos, can you keep your question until the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u315	Mr. Chairman. Well, then I guess I've had most of it around the IRS. I only promised to return to the gift and inheritance tax. The question was rightly asked: how is it possible that this gift and inheritance tax produced 450 million less revenue in 2017? And is that structural or incidental? I have answered these questions quite extensively. I explained what was behind it in my six-month report, which was sent to the House of Representatives yesterday. The most important thing is that there is indeed a delay. It will be overtaken immediately in 2018. So it's an incidental cash drawer. That which we don't pick up in 2017 we will logically pick up in 2018. Then there was a question from Mr Van de Ven about the system changes. He asked if we could accept the request to take 12 months in the future in the timetable of each system change before the intended system change will enter into force. I actually wanted to say that I fully support Mr Van de Ven's wish. In fact, I indicated in my parameter letter that system changes should be incorporated into legislation at least 15 months in advance, so that implementation can take place on time. In short, my own standards are even stricter than those of Mr Van de Ven. I'm asking 15 months for it. Then Mr Nagel of 50PLUS asked how I found the Tax Office. In fact, I think I have already said most of this in the answer. I don't think I need to share any more conclusions on that now either. Mr. Chairman. Then I actually wanted to close this general section. There was a lot in there, you know, more than in the more specific parts. I think that the Hills Act deserves our attention. The most important thing to mention here is the process. This was particularly discussed in the debate in the Lower House, with everything that was involved. It was also mentioned today. Some people called that process careless. The treatment time was short, not only for the Chamber, but also for myself. I really think that we have done everything we can to ensure that the process as such has gone very carefully. We have not only followed all the processes neatly, up to and including the Council of State. There has even been a separate hearing for the legislative consultation in order to find out more about it. We answered 200 questions in the Lower House and in the Upper House about 80. We have presented 31 tables with purchasing power plates at all possible levels of income, value of the house and property. So I really don't recognize myself in the idea that there would have been insufficient consideration of the effects. I heard that once this afternoon. I can imagine that you are for or against, but on the question of whether it has not been adequately dealt with or prepared, the answer is that it has certainly been sufficiently prepared and discussed. The thing about the trial. Then on the background of the measure. Why are we doing this? A number of Members of Parliament have already said quite clearly about this today. Due to the fact that a repayment requirement was submitted in 2013, the additional incentive for accelerated repayment was actually no longer necessary. It's already necessary by law to relieve you. Now you could say, well, okay, then maybe it's a little redundant. Apart from that, however, the cost of the scheme has risen considerably over time. In 2015, the estimated costs were still around half a billion, but they would reach more than 1.1 billion in 2042 in the structural sheet. This is mainly because more and more people are becoming eligible for the scheme, not only because they were obliged to pay off, but also because a great deal has been paid off in recent years. This was not only due to the low interest rates, but also to the grant exemption, which has been very successful. The Court concluded that it cost ten times more than was intended. That's a bit of an apple comparison with pears, because once again, a lot of redemption was not only the result of the grant exemption, but also of the fact that redemption was financially beneficial for a lot of families, because you couldn't save that much in box 3. This is sometimes underestimated in the arguments of people who often use the term "defensive debt'. I have also been a bit strict in the House of Representatives, but I think that is a really dangerous way of looking at the situation. The discharge of a debt is never, in itself, a fine, unless we are all going to have to deal massively with negative interest rates, but that is not the issue in the mortgage world, fortunately, I am almost saying, because that would be a very complicated situation. But the principle of redemption as such, of borrowing money costs money, must be included. The idea that residents or citizens are punished for paying off their debt is a kind of framing that I really do not agree with and that also gives a wrong picture to people who might find this complicated and now decide not to pay off because there would be a fine. It really isn't. Furthermore, we have tried extensively to indicate that the purchasing power effects are positive for all groups, especially for the elderly with a low pension. We have also given those tables to your Chamber. We gave four examples: for AOW with partner, without partner, without supplementary pension and with a small supplementary pension. In all these records, one thing is clear. Suppose you were to abolish the Hills Act in four years, and would have taken all that in 2021. Even then, the purchasing power effects for everyone from AOW up to a very close on balance are positive. And why is that? This is because the Hillen effects are not very substantial for homes up to a certain amount. The only groups you think of, there is the value of the home forfait so high that it could eventually lead to an adverse income plate are people with a house of well over 1 million. Also the image that we drive people very strongly in their purchasing power or in their wallet is not the image that has emerged from all those records that I have mentioned before. I would also like to make that point again. I really don't want to go into all those purchasing power cards anymore. There were a number of questions about that, but I think I have just mentioned the main reasons why Hillen is not only having a negative effect, but is also being compensated for by everyone. It is not the case that people with a house are specifically dealt with by the cabinet. On average, homeowners advance under this cabinet in 96% of cases. 96% of homeowners are making progress. Now you can say: that's more than with the tenants; why do you do that? Anyway, this is just a response to the question of what we do with people with their own homes. At least Hilling isn't the thing that's gonna cause a big bang.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u316	What many people are afraid of is that the flat rate is going to rise hugely because the prices of houses are going to rise much faster than inflation. The question I asked is: are you going to do something about it? Would you mind doing something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u317	I think I would be a little helpful if you could clarify the question. What do you expect to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u318	What I expect to happen, and with me many, is that house prices are going to rise tremendously. People who are now sitting in a house of about €500,000 will suddenly be sitting in a million-dollar house in a few years' time, just because house prices are skyrocketing. They will then be faced with a flat-rate increase in proportion, or even higher.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u319	Mr Van Strien is talking about the house forfait?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u320	Yes. If the World War II value goes up, then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u321	That's linked to the World War II value. If the WOZ value goes up, the self-catering forfait drops. There is a link between the rise in the WED, because it is compensated by a decrease in the EWF. In the pictures it is always suggested that these things are logically the same, but that is not the case. It may be people's expectation that houses may turn upside down twice, but I think that's a bit of a speculative assumption. At least Hillen doesn't have an effect on prices, but for the people who think their house will be worth a lot more, it is true that if the WWZ value rises, the self-catering forfait drops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u322	Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u323	Specifically. I do not think this effect of abolishing Hillen is, but the fact that we can expect house prices to rise dramatically in the coming years. The question is: does the WOZ value actually fall if house prices rise by, say, a factor of two? Does the World Health Organisation (WHO) value fall by a percentage of 50%?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u324	No, the WOZ value hopefully goes with the price of the house, but the self-catering forfait drops accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u325	I have a question about the Secretary of State's subtlety on the purchasing power of homeowners versus tenants. Does he consider it desirable that the purchasing power of homeowners should increase relatively more than that of tenants?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u326	I do not think that is explicitly desirable or desirable. Also tenants are improving, 0.8%, but that is indeed a bit less. Whether that's a desirable outcome, I don't have an opinion on that. It is important, however, that both groups improve on it. It is not true that Hillen as such leads to a deterioration of the homeowner's position, because that image sometimes arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u327	A question in connection with the Hills Act. I didn't say anything in my speech about the trial or anything like that. I have only asked for the confidence of the citizens. I have been asked a little bit about this by fellow Members of this House. Fine, but my question to the Secretary of State is whether he could perhaps indicate how this law could have restored citizens' confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u328	I would like to say to Mr Schalk that I am really not insensitive to people's feelings: we have now relieved them, we have always done so nicely and nicely, but the bonus we get for this is now being abolished. Of course, once you get something, and suddenly you don't get it anymore, I get that people find that annoying. On the other hand, I am keeping an eye on the idea that they are going to get some kind of fine because, even now, people often, in fact always, relieve them is a good choice if they can make money available for that. If they don't have the money, they don't have to do anything. That's good, too. I do not know whether this measure adds to the citizens' confidence in the way in which their own house is handled. Moreover, I think it can be explained, especially because what is intended is the policy that is aimed at, namely that people are going to pay off their mortgage because it is important that they do not suffer from over-indebtedness, in fact the 2013 measure has already produced them. You could say that 2013 should have been the moment to do something with Hillen. People would probably have understood better than they do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u329	That's right, I didn't talk about a fine or anything. I was concerned with the question of trust. The Secretary of State gave a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u330	I particularly appreciate the fact that the Secretary of State is taking a rather comprehensive approach and showing empathy for that sense of homeowners who have used Hillen and now feel like something is being taken away. I think this is very good and that this is also the right tone. I kind of missed it with those here earlier today defending the Hillen deduction, because I think that's exactly what this is about. The Secretary of State also shows this with the figures. However, I find it difficult for the Secretary of State to talk about the new standard that came into force in 2013. I agree with the new cases, but this does not apply to the cases before 2013. You could even say that the people, too, I fully agree with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who still have a high debt, for example through a repayment-free mortgage, should still seriously consider paying off if they have that possibility. In fact, those 30 years of the Hillen phasing-out also apply in those situations. It is not the case that we have created a transitional right of: only the existing cases can benefit from it. If the Secretary of State were to bring that in and emphasize a little less that only the people with a villa are going to pay it, that would be worth a sweet thing to me. I do agree with the Secretary of State. Table 18 shows in cases 3 and 4........................................................................................................................................................ Only the guarantee that those 30 years really stay 30 years can't give the Secretary of State. That is at the heart of the mistrust of many taxpayers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u331	I broadly agree with this argument. I also understand that there can always be something: you say that now, but you will see that it will be ten or twenty years later. I cannot guarantee that this is not the case, because I do not think it is right to guarantee anything after our reign. This cabinet states that that 30 years is a phase-out. We understand the effects on purchasing power and also on emotional purchasing power, which is sometimes just as great. With the phasing out in 30 years, you should have those effects less. I was just trying to report it, but maybe I shouldn't focus too much on people with villas over a million, that the image that has been put down, namely that the Hills deduction was especially painful for an AOW guy with a very small pension with a house that happened to be relieved, isn't right. Mr Nagel said that 10% of people have an income of less than €15,000, but even that framing I want to make a little bit different, because of the same group, more than 60% have an individual box-3 capacity that is taxable. Of these, 25% have a box 3 capacity above the tonne. I am not saying that these people are not affected by the measure, but if they were, then it is still not the group with which Hillen is being attacked. If you would expect to be able to attack with a certain group of Hills, it would be more likely to be the group of people with a villa tax, because on balance, including the other measures taken by the Cabinet, they have potentially a less or less structural minus. That's actually the framing, like I'm putting it here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u332	Still a little while. More than tribute to the information provided by the Secretary of State in a very short time. It's not that. The Secretary of State will not hear any criticism on our part of the process and the provision of information. His own figures show that 82% of the people who now use the Hills deduction are 55 years and older. 56% have an income of less than €40,000. Two thirds of these are the figures of the State Secretary of State, or have no assets or assets of up to €100,000. It is precisely that group that worries, I think, wrongly, because they have 30 years to go and there will still be compensatory measures. I was pleased with the empathy of the Secretary of State, but I am less pleased with his own estimate of the total number of people in box 3 and that the group that uses Hillen is still higher, because they have more than €100,000. I would focus more on the people with small incomes and small resources, because that is where Mr Schalk's point is. That's suspicious: they're taking something they promised me first and they can't even guarantee me that it'll last 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u333	I won't be doing that framing anymore, and I won't be talking about the people with a house of more than a million. I really only wanted to paint another picture of the image that I have read and seen in the media around me. Let me put it this way. I shall now turn to the point made by Mr Van Rij, by the way, that it is rather complex. Many people find it complicated how it is exactly with their own home and their own tax housing arrangements. We understand that very well. It is complex not only for the citizen, but also for the Tax Administration. At the same time, it is true that the Hillen measure, with the preparatory time we are taking, is well practicable. Mr Van Rij asked: hasn't all this become very complicated? Actually, I wanted to say this. I have previously indicated in written answers that we will have an evaluation of our own housing scheme in 2020. That is what we wanted because we had done it a few years ago and wanted to take a moment to see how this worked out. Especially in view of the discussions that have taken place over the last few months on all these arrangements, I think it should be possible to bring this evaluation forward a little, if that is helpful for the discussion in which we can take these things with us. We have been thinking about 2018, but that is a very busy legislative and implementation year, including through the fiscal policy agenda and tax avoidance. However, if an evaluation of the scheme will help in 2019, I would like to promise that we will see an evaluation as feasible in that year. Actually, I just want to say that we're gonna do that. Mr Ester asked how I looked at the dual character...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u334	I hope I will buy you time, Mr President, because if I have understood the Secretary of State's commitment correctly, this will prevent me from tabling a motion. He said: I have already promised the House of Representatives an evaluation of the tax treatment of the house before 2020 and I would like to bring it forward. With the best will in the world, the Secretary of State would like to do so in 2018, but he can't, given the busy fiscal policy agenda. I would say to him: do you still want to think about doing it in 2018 after all? If that really is not possible, 2019 will not be a disaster for us. If, in the evaluation, the inconsistencies that are now in the scheme, the major problems with the feasibility and also the issue of legal certainty are highlighted, then I really want to see this commitment as a commitment and then I have no need to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u335	This is really my intention. You mentioned a list of eight or nine measures over the years. Again, if I have to explain at parties and parties what it's like, I think halfway through: what exactly was it like? I think it is very good that we are talking about this. You can't completely compare your own apartment to savings. Yet there are box 1/box 3 discussions about this. I think it is just right that we should keep it under review one more time: what have we done in recent years? Then I will go straight to Mr Ester's question about how I look at that final plate. I think it would be wise for me to do the evaluation first and then see what this cabinet wants to come up with in the end. Are we already there, are we not there yet and what should we do? I hope I have answered Mr Ester's questions with that. Mr Backer asked whether purchasing power outcomes were the basis for the proposed reduction of the household credit. The short answer is yes, because we are looking at everything in conjunction with this measure. It's not necessarily the first thing you look at, but eventually you look at the whole package. You have no choice, I think, and in that sense the answer is yes. By the way, lowering the housing gap has the additional advantage that it mitigates the effects of the phasing-out of the Hillen Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u336	I'm gonna ask you how much longer you think you're gonna need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u337	About ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u338	That'd be great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u339	I will not answer Mr Van Rij's question if Hillen would be priceless. Otherwise, I would have said that "unaffordable," perhaps, was a wrong choice of words. But it's very valuable. I also talked about communicating with the public about Hillen. Maybe fickle; I can't quite deny that much has happened. We need to do better. There were also questions from D66 around Hillen in the sense that we will have to give good information to concerned citizens. I think that is a key call, and I fully support it. Once again, especially after what I have just said, I can imagine that we really need to correct the image that has now emerged of what Hillen means to people and to be better explained. We have had a little little time for that so far, but it must be done. The plan is to involve older people's associations, the Consumers' Union and trade unions. Of course also the web services and the website of the Tax Administration. We want to give special training to the people of the Tax Phone. I am not going to list it all, but it is a whole package of measures. Once we are where we are, we really need to go into the briefing. That's important. Mr Nagel asked if the cabinet could explain why it did not care about the opinion of voters. In response, I say that I do not recognize myself in that. I do, and so does the Cabinet. It has presented a government agreement in which as many citizens as possible can benefit from an attractive economy. That's it for Hillen, unless somebody says I forgot something right now. Then I'll go to the Tax Plan; that's what we had. Fortunately, there were not so many questions about this after the written procedure. One point is very important, namely box 3. That has been discussed in many conversations. Mr Van de Ven, Mr Ester, Mrs Sent and Mr Nagel all asked: what about that box 3? There's a wonderful line in the coalition agreement. What are we gonna do with that now? Can the Secretary of State start it as soon as he did with Hillen? In any case, I am pleased that everyone is enthusiastic about the measures. In addition to the measures to match the real return, we have of course already done a number of things with which we try to connect closer to the real return, by choosing the period that people feel more like: what do I get for my savings and how are you taxed? We have done the same in the Tax Plan. Are we going to continue with the returns actually enjoyed? Quite extensive research has already been done in 2016 and 2017 in the Keuzedocument box 3. The conclusion was that the implementation of the levy for the financial institution and for citizens is quite complex. It is even structuralally problematic for the Tax Administration. Nevertheless, given our own coalition agreement and all the questions here, I intend to look at them again. I intend to send my response to both your Chamber and the House of Representatives at the beginning of next year. I'm gonna go into that one more time. I'll say it's a wonderful plan and everyone wants it, but if you look at the execution costs, both for the citizen, the associated services that have to communicate it to us, as well as the Tax Administration, actually keeping track of returns is not a simple job. In fact, my commitment is: I am going to bring it very quickly, not only to the House of Representatives, but of course also to your Chamber. Mrs Vos asked why medicines for acne and bladder inflammation are no longer covered by the definition of medicines. She also asked whether the cabinet could justify the 12 million additional income tax of people who need these medicines. This has also been discussed for quite a long time in the debate in the Lower House. What's a cure is pretty hard to define. The Supreme Court has already made a lot of statements on this, including on toothpaste and sunscreen. That kind of thing leads to a different classification of what a cure is or isn't. The most important consideration we have wanted to make is: you must have a uniform policy of implementation. So, in short, we have joined public registration. Something is a medicine and is then publicly registered. That number gives a kind of general recognition of: yes, this is an approved medicinal product with a marketing authorisation. At that time, the Tax Administration can also follow that definition. It is really too difficult for the Tax Administration to decide for themselves whether or not a cure for acne has a working ingredient and is therefore a medicine. The IRS isn't capable of that either. We have joined a division, some of which say: I do not agree with it. That is what we must do, but I think that is all we can do in terms of feasibility. We have really seriously considered whether we could not extend it in any other way, but legally it simply proved to be insufficient to define it. Mr Van Strien asked whether we can guarantee that it remains with the 38% increase in energy taxation. At the heart of the answer is that we will always look at a balanced burden-sharing between households and businesses. Of course, this balance also played a role when we drew up the coalition agreement. The Minister of EZK sent today an extensive letter stating what this can mean for the energy bill of households during this cabinet period. Again, I'll make sure your Chamber gets this letter, too, with some more extensive pictures on the energy bill than I have now. Then there was another question about the VAT agricultural scheme. Mr Schalk asked why a commitment to agriculture was not met. I think he referred to the IBO Agro, fisheries and food chains, in short the IBO Agro, which the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs presented as an annex to a cabinet response to the IBO Agro in 2015. The IBO Working Group recommends in its report that consideration be given to using the budgetary envelope associated with the VAT agricultural scheme for the purposes of the policy variant, sustainability or more economic potential mentioned in the report. However, there was no commitment from the cabinet to use the freeing-up budget for investment in agriculture. This took place under Rutte II. At that time, in consultation with the Chamber, it was decided to use this as cover in a different way. In fact, this Tax Plan was nothing more than an implementation of that earlier decision. I believe that this was a solution to the problem of exchange rates in the agricultural budget. Mr Van de Ven has asked a few more questions. He asked, among other things, whether the future tariff and disc changes would be desirable at all. Don't you have to do that every year? There may be several reasons for taking measures which may come into force or be implemented gradually one year later. Directors can then choose, for example in the case of a cabinet change or policy change, to adjust measures. Future adjustments to the tariff and disc limits in income tax generally coincide with the changes that have been spread over a long period of time. You have longer-term measures that will clarify what this means for income tax. Because these measures often do not stop in one year, you do so on a multiannual basis in the area of income taxes. For example, you can think of measures in the area of your own home. Mr Van de Ven had also put these questions in writing and we hoped to have given a good answer. So in short, that's the answer: this is often multiannual and you're also just trying to clarify what's going on. Moreover, it can of course always happen that a new policy measure will be taken during the year, which will change it again. Mr Van de Ven also asked for the request of the VVD group to accept the timetable in the future... Oh, I have already answered that! That was over the 12 months. That's double. Finally, there were questions about the pension fund and retention exemptions. They were quite technical questions, Mr President, so I'm sorry, but since they were explicitly asked, I think it's a good thing that I'm trying to answer them. Mr Van de Ven asked whether a pension fund exempted in a country of residence qualified as a resident for the purpose of applying the new withholding tax exemption. In addition, Mr Van de Ven asked how the cabinet intends to continue the implementation policy of the Tax Administration with regard to the exemption from dividend tax for pension funds not established in the Netherlands. I am going to read the answer, if no one would mind, because the essence of the answer is that the answer is not unambiguous. Then you already know it's going to be very difficult. A number of requirements must be met for the application of the retention exemption. A pension fund exempted in the country of residence may satisfy the condition that it is established under the tax legislation of the Member State of residence, but that does not necessarily mean that the withholding tax exemption applies. Another requirement is that the creditor has an interest in the withholding agent while a member's exemption or a member's allowance would apply...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u340	I think Mr Van de Ven would like to interrupt you with the question of whether you would like to put this in a letter. I think I understand Mr Van de Ven very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u341	Is this supposed to be poured into a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u342	If you see that possibility, it is very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u343	It is perhaps appreciated by many here and perhaps also by me, because I really had to read it because I can't see it completely. It's not that much anymore, but let's promise that we'll send this to you in a short note. They were really technical questions. I don't think they're important for tonight's further policy follow-up. But I will. The same applies to Mr Van de Ven's question as to whether the Netherlands will commit itself to raising capital from foreign pension funds. That's how this block is done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u344	Maybe that letter will still be there by the end of the week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u345	Sure. Absolutely. We actually have the answers ready, so they'll be here by the end of the week. Now I've really gotten to the very last and thinnest block. I'm three minutes late, but I don't have a running clock here, so I'm in your hands, Madam President. This block is about the tax rebates for foreign taxable border workers. That is an important theme. We may have saved the most important for the latter! That is not quite the case, but this is a serious issue raised by Mr Van Rij, Mrs Sent and Mr Backer: the application of tax rebates to foreign taxpayers. That sounds technical, but it's actually not if you're trying to explain. The measure now being proposed and dealt with by the House of Representatives is intended to prevent people who are not entitled to tax rebates from being wrongly paid. That is at the heart of the measure. There are now a lot of foreign frontier workers working in the Netherlands. There is now an automatic refund of those tax rebates. Then it turns out that a very large group is not entitled to the discount. The tax authorities will then have to recover that discount. The idea of the proposal is that we are not doing it automatically anymore, but that we are sending a signal to the people who used to get it automatically. A group of 130,000 people do not get it automatically anymore, but they are entitled to it. This group will then be actively approached by the Tax Administration with the message: this should no longer be regulated in the payroll tax, but neatly in the income tax. We understand that this entails administrative obligations. The commitment I want to make here, which I have not yet made in the House of Representatives, is that the Tax Administration will actively approach and report to this group that is in the picture: for you there will be a change that looks like this and you must do so. This continues to guarantee the most important aspect of the law, but I would prefer not to have the situation where 350 000 taxpayers receive tax rebates because they are a frontier worker when otherwise they would not get them in the same situation in the Netherlands. If you're not entitled to it, I really don't think we should just leave it at that. It is really complicated to recover something from foreign taxpayers; you can all imagine why that is complicated. Because we have a picture of who is entitled to it, this is relatively easy to overcome by actively writing to those people. I expect that this active approach will solve the problem that has now been identified. So that's the proposal I wanted to make right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u346	I have some questions about this. Firstly, I note that in particular low-skilled workers can potentially benefit from this approach by the Tax Administration. Can communication pay special attention to approaching those low-skilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u347	Sure. This communication also needs to involve the employer, because we can often identify these people on the basis of the information that employers have in the wage charge. The communication strategy therefore takes into account that the employer also has an important, active role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u348	A second point:...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u349	How many points do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u350	Three. In my group's view, the general motive for doing this is to find a solution that does not prejudice cross-border work. I have not yet heard the Secretary of State on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u351	The issue of the frontier worker is indeed an important issue, to use only a good Dutch word. If you believe in a Europe where labour mobility is also cross-border, you really want a border to be a barrier to workers as little as possible. This is a dilemma, because at the same time people living in Belgium or the Netherlands receive different tax treatment from their employer, in the Netherlands for example through the mortgage interest deduction or the discounts. In fact, in many cases you try to choose as pragmatic an approach as possible. That is what we are doing for frontier workers, for example, in the tax treaties with those countries. We are trying to provide additional information specifically for this group of people and to make additional commitments. However, we can never completely prevent any difference in tax treatment between a resident of Belgium or Germany and a resident of the Netherlands, especially when it comes to a tax reduction, where you also have to check your family income. Suppose the Tax Administration should check what a possible partner in Belgium has without a Dutch BSN number. That's very hard to take. I'm afraid there are things that we can't completely get rid of, but I fully support the idea behind it. We have to do our best to make sure there's no obstruction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u352	Then there is the third point. Is the Secretary of State prepared to agree to examine what possibilities there are not to prejudice cross-border work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u353	I need to see exactly what I'm doing with that. I think it is important that it is made clear in this case. In that sense, I did wake up. This is a large group of taxpayers with a low level of education and none of them speaking 100% Dutch. We must do our best to provide such a group with active information and not just to wait and see. That's very important. If the commitment is to come up next year with a proposal on frontier workers, it will be difficult, if only because many of the cross-border problems are also covered by bilateral tax treaties, for example with Germany. The last time we dealt with Germany, it took, I believe, 27 years for us to negotiate. I see much more in pragmatic direction on what we have than in trying to regulate it at all in legislation, policy or treaty policy. It is not intended as a rejection of willingness to do something for frontier workers. I understand the problem. It is important, but I also do not want to promise that there will be some kind of new treaty policy. It's hard to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u354	Finally, Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u355	Finally. I am not asking for a commitment on new treaty policies. I ask for a commitment to explore the possibilities for promoting cross-border work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u356	Such a commitment is still a little too general for me. So what are we going to encourage, who is going to pay for it, what is it for and what is it for? I'd rather try to solve this problem properly. We are talking about a total of 480,000 frontier workers who have this problem or who are at least in this situation. I'd like to solve that first. I would rather do that than make a general commitment on frontier workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u357	I would like to join in the last words of the Secretary of State. It's that group of 480,000 employees. As you say, it concerns the qualifying and non-qualifying groups. The qualifying group of foreign taxpayers is a group of 120,000 to 130,000, mainly but not exclusively resident in Belgium and Germany. They earn more than 90% of their working income in the Netherlands and are therefore entitled to at least the working discount, which, as I understand from the proposal, will still be paid. However, it concerns the general tax rebate and possibly other discounts. I do not think it will often be an elderly discount or an additional elderly discount. I am concerned about your solution. I understand very well that we have actually paid too many discounts to that group of 460,000 minus the 120,000. That should simply remain in the Dutch state treasury, because they are not entitled to it. I agree. But would you not be able to arrange it for that group from 120,000 to 130,000 in one way or another through the payroll tax and if that did not work through the employer's payroll administration? It seems to me that it is rather complicated to send a letter to 120,000 Belgians and Germans to ask for the Dutch general tax rebate back. In short, is there not a more practical solution to this problem? For the rest, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u358	Mr. Backer, then?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u359	Mr President, I am sure that will follow. I recall that a few years ago Mr Klaas de Vries asked for a note on the problems of border workers in this house and that it showed how complicated it was. Maybe there are handles for it, just for the collective memory, so we know that was done then. I'm not comfortable anyway. The Secretary of State unfolds a logic that is very logical from the Tax Administration and that also sounds attractive, because why pay out what you shouldn't pay out? However, there has been great commotion in the border regions about its implementation. Of course, I understand from the Tax Administration, but I find it difficult because of the effects. I would like to go a little further than you have just promised. We've done it before with one of your predecessors. You say that it passes the scheme because it may be inherently logical. But before introducing it, the Secretary of State comes back here again to discuss it with us and to report what proposals he has in mind. I find that a more reassuring thought than just the logic of the Tax Administration, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u360	I don't think only the logic of the IRS was followed here. As Mr Van Rij also says, the moment you keep a payroll administration, you always keep the problem that there's some sort of automation in it that you're going to pay out. If it turns out that's not true, you're gonna have to recover it. The problems of recovery, of course, lie not only with the Tax Office....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I also understand that a number of people in the border regions think: I have had tax rebates now, I do not want to know too much whether or not I am entitled to them. I really want to make sure that we do not turn a blind eye to the fact that we do give people a tax discount and that we do not want to do so. I also understand that Mr Backer is not looking for that. Logic isn't that this is just nice for the IRS. I think it's a good thing we comply with our laws. I think it is a good thing that we are putting everyone fairly under the law and that an implementing institution is monitoring that. As far as your last point is concerned, I do not think it would be wise to say that we are going ahead, but that we should not go further until I have shown once again that it is good. In my view, we now have a clear picture of what we are doing not only helping the Tax Administration, but also the taxpayer. I think it is good to try again to find something that provides a pragmatic solution for this whole group of people who are both qualifying and non-qualifying. But if it turns out that we're overlooking things, we're going to actively look for them, and that might explain why people in the border area are a little upside-down, let's put that in the picture and report on it in the second quarter. I do think the stakes should remain that we are trying to comply with our laws. We are. That's what we're gonna do. This will only take place in 2019. We haven't said that here yet, but you had already read it in the bill. That still gives us a little time to look at it. If I can understand it so that it would be nice if I could look into this again and come back to it in the second quarter, I would like to give that to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u361	Mr. Van Rij, finally, your last interruption at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u362	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I really want to get it exactly. The group you want to meet is the qualifying foreign taxpayers. You said, "We've got a visual, we're gonna write a letter." Again, those non-qualifying foreign taxpayers are not entitled to the general tax rebate and any other additional discounts. So if you know who they are, then it could possibly be settled in the payroll administration or with the help of the payroll administration? It is also in the interests of the employer that this goes well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u363	I agree with the latter. We do indeed need the help of the payroll administration. That's what I said: the employer needs to be involved. The most important thing will soon be to prevent the automation that is now in place from proving to be inadequate in 350 000 cases and then to recover it. We have to try to adapt that automation. Anything we can use, including the payroll administration, we will use. Mr. Chairman. The last few questions and then I'm really here. Mr Van de Ven asked how the government had implemented the Hoekstra motion on the distribution of property after prenuptial terms, given the criteria used by the cabinet. That's about the gift and inheritance tax. I have a brief answer to that: it has indeed been looked at, but it has finally been decided that the scale and complexity of the measures did not entirely justify a separate legislative proposal. By the way, that was done by my predecessor, but I am fair. But it is not impossible that next time, especially if there are other elements, this will happen in a separate legislative proposal. Mr Van de Ven also asked about the announced decision on the gift tax and the prenup. The answer is that there is indeed a planned policy decision for this, but that a policy decision by its nature can only explain existing legislation. So we cannot add anything new to that. A policy decision clarifies existing laws and regulations. I am, of course, prepared to send a copy of the published decision to Mr Van de Ven, but we are going to send it to him and to the entire First Chamber. The last question I would like to ask is that of Mrs Vos on the simplified third-party seizure. She asked if I am prepared to postpone the measure on the simplified third-party seizure until it is certain that the Tax Office takes account of the duty-free foot in the case of bank deposits. The answer to that is very brief: yes. This is an amendment by Mr Omtzigt, adopted in the House of Representatives. So I will indeed postpone that measure until the Tax Administration has clarity about that impounded foot. I hope that answer is satisfactory. Mrs Vos had a second question. She noted that, in the case of bank deposits, there will be one less contact moment with the debtor and asked how to solve that problem. You could say it's one less, but there's still a lot left. Before dealing with a bank attachment, a debtor has already had several warnings in the form of a formal notice and a warrant. He also had the opportunity to report to the Tax Administration for a payment arrangement or remission if he has insufficient income to pay his debts. Only if all these steps have been skipped and the citizen does not report whether the origin of the debts is or is then to be blamed on himself, will the Tax Administration possibly lay down a simplified bank charge, applying a duty-free charge in advance. The moment of contact that will soon be missing is the written pre-announcement. In practice, this pre-announcement is expected to have only limited added value in relation to the notice of formal notice and the order for enforcement, which have also been placed in the debtor's letterbox. I hope, Mr President, that I have answered all the questions in all areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u364	Thank you. I'll take a look around. We have now reached the second term of office, unless we want a little break of three minutes. No? Then we'll get right on it. I give the floor to Mr Van Strien. You have four minutes, max.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u365	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. At least, as far as they're answered. The truth is that many choices are not ours and many questions have not been resolved. For example, the abolition of the dividend tax is, in my opinion, incorrect and certainly not sufficiently justified, but I do not have the illusion that we are going to get out of it tonight. I would like to say that a question has also been resolved on one point, and I would like to see it confirmed. This concerns the abolition of the Hills Act. We continue to find that very regrettable, let me put it first. However, I understand from the Secretary of State that the price of the home forfait falls in the same proportion as the World Health Organization rises more than inflation. Maybe he can confirm that again. Then, as far as I'm concerned, we can end the evening with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u366	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I give the floor to Mr De Grave. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u367	Mr President, I too would like to thank both directors. I still have a few points. Thank you to the Minister for the answers to the whole issue of concern. The core for my group was, of course, to get it more insightful for future political debates, given its enormous size. I'm gonna write down two commitments that I'm grateful for. First of all, the director of the planning agency will be discussing tomorrow whether the planning agency is able and willing to split up that sustainability deficit, including and excluding the development of healthcare expenditure. The logic is obvious, of course. I welcome that commitment. I assume that the result will also be reported to this Chamber. Of course, even more important and more extensive is the issue of a separate standard for healthcare expenditure, linking it to national income. Once again, politics determines nothing else there. It doesn't make the problem any easier, but it does make it much more insightful. As far as the fraction of the VVD is concerned, it becomes clear along this line that additional growth in healthcare expenditure, beyond the norm of growth of national income, has consequences in other areas. Then that political balance must also be made. I also think it is a better standard than what is de facto the norm now, namely the estimate of the Central Planning Office. I would therefore prefer a standard for this to be linked to the growth of national income. And what's the standard called? I would like to thank the Minister for giving me that honour. I'm afraid that's not gonna work. Why not? Because it's happened before. I have once been the creator of the so-called "overflow" orbits. You had the milking rinks and then it was about the situation after that. Then my political leader, that was then Dijkstal, endlessly you remember trying to make it the "De Gravebaan'. Then a friendly journalist explained that that would not be him, because the "De Gravebaanpen" doesn't like the sound of him. So it's not going to be the "The Gravenorm" either. The "Hoekstranorm," that sounds decisive. I'm afraid, Minister, it will become the Hoekstranorm after all. I'm fine with it. It matters to me that that happens. So I, along with my group, await what you will report on this. Much has been said about the dividend tax. We're not gonna solve all that, are we? The Minister said what he needed to say about it. I would like to stress once again that for my group the points I have raised are very important. We want to get a good answer to that. I find this revenue particularly interesting. We've asked about its resilience. It is said here every time that 1.4 billion is structural. How structural is the structural debt in the light of all legal cases and the change and the system, also in relation to interest rates, the withholding tax on interest and the withholding tax on royalty payments? This also has effects on the proceeds of the dividend tax. So we really want to know how the image is structural. The legal basis of the dividend tax. I can still hear the Secretary of State say that he thinks it is very important that there should be a levy where there should be a levy. If there is a foreign shareholder, shouldn't there be levied there? We have of course already received our contribution as the Netherlands. I used that argument, too. I mentioned the lawsuits. In short, these are all important things, which, as far as we are concerned, are an argument that we have not yet heard and which, in the opinion of the VVD Group, are important in the overall consideration, which we will, of course, all, as all the groups at the end, make extremely objective and careful. 'Cause that's what we fixed in the first installment. Thanks for the commitment on tax interest. The Secretary of State was clear. He will also realize that if he promises something, we will not table unnecessary motions. I would just like to say to the Secretary of State that the motion had broad support, so there is, of course, a problem if he were to disappoint us on that point. But I'm sure he realized that. Mr. Chairman. Then, in the few seconds I have left, only my disappointment remains that I have not managed to table a motion. It's gonna be a bit problematic, because it's annoying if your MP can't get any motion behind your name. Someone from a Christian angle who always thought along with you said to me: well, but you did get a promise. I say that's like a footballer who doesn't make a goal, but only gives an assist. Nice, but it doesn't really score. Anyway, I'm gonna have to do it with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u368	Thank you, Mr. De Grave. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven. You have three minutes, max.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u369	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all my questions. I was a little afraid by 9.30 p.m. that no question would be answered, because I know how competent you are to close a debate at some point, Mr President. But it all worked out! The Secretary of State has indicated that in the future deductions will be paid at the lowest rate. I'm not entirely comfortable with that. That goes well if there is one rate in income tax. If there are two rates in income tax, it becomes more difficult. But we also have AOW beneficiaries, and then you come into contact with two other rates. This raises the question of why it was not chosen to repay the deductions at an average rate, because I could understand that. Then I come to something else, because it would be a fundamental system change if you went to the lowest rate. In other cases, we opt for a proportionate prevention of, for example, double taxation. If you go through that line, you'll end up in a credit system in an international situation. This means that in the Netherlands you will raise to the Dutch level of taxation. I wonder if that would be desirable. So one: what's the motivation to do it at the lowest rate if we don't have one, two, but four rates? Secondly, do we want to introduce a credit system in the end? Merci.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u370	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Minister and the Secretary of State for their reply. The Secretary of State was very detailed in his reply. However, the Minister has not answered all our questions. Maybe that wasn't just him or his primary fault, but the fact that we all went on dinner break at some point. I argued in my first term that this cabinet makes the wrong choices as far as we are concerned. I note that there is no reconsideration on the part of the cabinet as to those choices. I had only limited hope of that. As far as income inequality is concerned, the Minister simply admits that it is increasing under this cabinet. The division grows and this cabinet says: yes, that is also the market. But isn't it the responsibility of the government to destroy undesirable developments and the market? So the cabinet is doing too little for us here, but I note that the Minister thinks it is fine and balanced. One specific point the Minister has not answered: how a particular measure affects one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, labour restrictions. This concerns specifically the replacement of wage subsidies announced in the government agreement with wage dispensation. That would mean that the people who are going to work under the minimum wage. The Minister said earlier in his reply in the first term that working should pay off. My question to the Minister remains whether he does not think that this principle should be honoured here too. So I'd like a response. As far as public investment is concerned, I have said earlier that it is necessary to catch up. The Minister stated in his reply, and this has also been pointed out by various political groups, that there is a need for prudent fiscal policy. Let me repeat once again that this is separate from the question of the size of the collective sector, the public sector. So if we think that the recovery is strong enough now, we are less sure of it, and so we have to fix the roof when the sun shines, then it does not necessarily mean that spending is limited, but then we can of course also look for it in increasing tax revenues, for example in the case of large assets. In fact, the Minister did not say much about dealing with the problem of capital inequality. It's big in the Netherlands. Doing something about that would be good from the perspective of fair sharing, but also in terms of democracy. Possibility also leads to a concentration of economic power, I say again here. I have actually heard little about the Minister on these points, so I conclude that he thinks it is normal that 10% has 66% of the property in the Netherlands. On the dividend tax, I conclude that, despite all his debate skills and skill, this Minister cannot defend the indefenable. I have a specific question concerning what he said, because that was not clear to me either. Is that 0.3 billion out of 1.4 billion just like the SOMO report... primarily about maintaining Unilever's or Shell's headquarters, or is it also, and perhaps in particular, about attracting foreign capital? That is what I heard the Minister say. The minister said in response to me: shareholders matter. But why do Dutch companies necessarily need shareholders from those few countries where the dividend tax is indeed a final tax rather than a imputable tax? Why do we specifically need those shareholders? That is still not clear to me. According to the Minister, is this about raising new capital? If not, what difference does it make anyway? There is also a lot of economic literature. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to this. I refer, among other things, to a recent article by Professor Bas Jacobs. He says that companies do not invest by raising new capital but by withholding profits. Then again the question is how it can help the Dutch business community and attract companies. I have not heard much from the Minister about the dislocation between the real economy and the financial sector, but he did deal with the specific issue of capital buffers. I am still trying to clarify this in the second term. The Minister said at one point: our commitment is clear. I have thought a little bit about it and I am not really clear about that, so maybe he can specify that again. Quite specifically, will the Minister now, for example, focus on maintaining the leverage ratio of at least 4%? And if not, why not? I heard him say in the House of Representatives: there are negotiations on Basel IV, which we must wait and see what happens in the European context. We are now on and there is news about the negotiations on Basel IV. Does that give him reason to think differently or to say: we can go to 3%? Or does he say: no, it would still be desirable to bet on at least 4% and perhaps even more? I like to hear him talk about it. Two more comments. We talked about the higher wages. I would like to point out to the Minister that higher wages in the Netherlands might also give more air for the euro area. He is talking about new cuts, but I think that would do more and would be more sensible when it comes to rebalancing the European economy. All the way to the end. I do not think I heard the Minister on the Kox motion, which was adopted in this Chamber last week. It asked the government to reach a government-wide reduction target in order to actually reduce child poverty in the Netherlands. My question, which I repeat here, was: does the Minister have any concrete ideas as to how to implement this motion, in addition to the half sentence contained in the government agreement on child poverty? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u372	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I give the floor to Mr Van Rij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u373	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank both directors for their comprehensive response. Compliments of how quickly they've gotten involved. I'm not gonna be doing long papers here in the second term. I wish the Minister every success, particularly in Brussels when it comes to the future of the euro, the banking union and the commitment he has chosen to it, which he has just explained and which has also come to us in letters, for the further completion of the capital market union. We are, of course, very interested in the scenarios for Brexit, which the government is hopefully going to come to the Chamber with. We also understand that, of course, it is not possible to share all the information on this, because it is not yet clear. But at least he has convinced us that Brexit is a big risk to the Dutch economy and will also have a direct impact on the government's finances. I had a small point, which I and others had asked for, and that was actually the opinion of the Council of State. However, the Minister did address the Council of State: this has to do with the sustainability balance and with the fact that, if it is not, it will have to be adjusted. But the Council of State has also made a number of very concrete suggestions. He didn't agree to that. Perhaps he still wants to do so briefly in the second term. This concerns in particular how he deals with the investment area that is currently in the budget. In fact, three techniques have been identified by the Council of State: a provisional investment reserve, a budget reserve or an envelope. I'm sure he's given that some thought. Mr. Chairman. As regards the international climate of establishment, both the Minister and the Secretary of State discussed this. We await the proposals. However, we would like to stress once again that we wholeheartedly agree with the approach taken in the coalition agreement and explained here by the Minister and the Secretary of State, namely that the Netherlands, on the one hand, is working loyally and proactively on the OECD and the EU agenda when it comes to the abuse of tax treaties there, as the State Secretary said, has already done a great deal, while at the same time keeping the Netherlands attractive to Dutch companies and foreign companies. This includes the reduction in corporation tax, which, by the way, goes hand in hand with a broadening of the tax base. On dividend taxation: it would, of course, be a great help in the discussion if, hopefully, on the basis of case positions, which actually show foreign investors themselves to be interested in setting up their headquarters in that country, with all the positive economic aspects of that, if that package of corporate tax, abolishing dividend tax and maintaining the 30% regime, and then, of course, the unilateral approach of the bald forwarders, as I call them, but is mentioned. Perhaps it is a suggestion that Minister and Secretary of State send the letter sent to the House of Representatives on 14 November 2017 to this Chamber as well, with an explanation. Because when the Secretary of State answered Mr Van de Ven's question about exactly how it works with pension funds and whether or not they could use that withholding tax exemption for the dividend tax, I thought: well, that's almost a reason to abolish the dividend tax, provided we're interested in foreign pension funds investing in Dutch companies. However, the four examples you give there, including a lot of quantitative data, which are constantly being asked, have already been exchanged with the Chamber for questions from Asscher and Nijboer. Maybe that could be extended a little bit. Mr. Chairman. On the one hand, we are very pleased with how the Secretary of State gave the answers to the bill on the gradual abolition of Hillen. He knows, I haven't turned my heart into a murder pit. The process has been good, the information has been complete in order to reach a judgment. I will take all these answers back to the group and share it with her. I have one more question for the rulers: you can prepare for a referendum. Mr Nagel has been very clear in that, and that is to be praised in him, although I do not agree with the way he conducts the discussion and the examples he mentions. But he's crystal clear in there. How are you, as a government, going to prepare for that referendum? We have already had a small debate on this so-called framing. I think that the outcome of such a referendum will depend very much on how it is communicated. I am very curious whether the government has given any more thought to this, because governance is also forward-looking. Mr. Chairman. The last question I would like to raise is a little broader, because it also has to do with the elderly. Look, we sometimes forget that we also have to count the blessings in this Chamber. That is what I am going to say to Mr Nagel. Mr Van Rooijen argued here last year, with the support of a number of political groups, including ours, and I myself wrote the draft of that motion for an increase in the elderly's discount and a more gradual reduction in it. That's in the Tax Plan now. That is very hard to improve purchasing power and the result of a good discussion that we have had here. I would like to give that to both Mr Nagel and the government. Mr President, judging from your body language, I think I should come to a conclusion. I've got three minutes! In skating stars I would like to say that the game is over, but I expect from both rulers, whom I have given dearly the nicknames Ard and Kees, that in the second term they will say something about how they think they are going to reach this finish tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u374	Thank you, Mr. Van Rij. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u375	Mr. Chairman. We look back on a pleasant and constructive introduction to the tandem at Finance. I would like to anchor a number of matters in the second term. With regard to the proposed increase in the low VAT rate, we thank the directors for the answer, but we also hear them say that it is actually just a beginning of an answer. I also understood Mr De Grave's suggestion to Mr Van Rij, because I listened very carefully to him say that a thorough study of the effects of the proposed increase in VAT is of course useful, but that the other effects of the proposed tax measures should be taken into account. We would like to take this opportunity to express our thanks and therefore come forward with an amended motion 34755 under F of my colleague Barth, which explicitly incorporates these other effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u376	The Barth c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement on Trust provides for an increase in the low VAT rate in the future without further explanation of the substance;]] [[Whereas increasing the low VAT rate entails risks to the competitiveness of independent retailers, in particular in shrinking areas and border regions;]] [[Whereas entry prices of theatres and museums are also affected by the rise in the low VAT rate;]] [[Whereas booksellers may be particularly affected by an increase in the low VAT rate as they are already operating at very low margins, they must compete with internet sales and, because of the fixed book price, have little or no room for manoeuvre in their pricing;]] [[Whereas healthy behaviour is not encouraged if prices of healthy food and sport rise under the influence of the VAT increase;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sectors concerned, to carry out an analysis of the social impact of the VAT increase, taking explicit account of the position of independent retailers in shrinking and border regions, the cultural sector including bookshops and newspapers and the prevention of unhealthy behaviour, including the other effects of the proposed fiscal measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion has been signed by members Barth, Van Apeldoorn, Postema, Nagel, Vos and Koffeman.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u377	Mr. Chairman. We have drawn relatively much attention to education and would not do so if we were not genuinely of the opinion that a number of looming errors in the government agreement should be corrected in this respect. This concerns, first of all, the reduction in the efficiency of education of EUR 183 million in structural terms. It seems to me that we should not be satisfied with the Minister's commitment to Mr Rinnooy Kan that he will seek a more euphemistic wording than a reduction in efficiency. We call on the government to be more creative in this. The urgency of education requires this. We are therefore tabling the next motion for a resolution. The President shall: Mr Postema, Mr Barth, Mr Sent, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the future, confidence in education is included in the government agreement, with an efficiency reduction of up to EUR 183 million in structural terms;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to invest in education at the same time in order to increase the development time for teachers and smaller classes;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the efficiency reduction in education can be mitigated and preferably reversed;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber of its results by the Spring 2018 Note,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-L]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u378	Mr. Chairman. Finally, we are well aware that the government wanted to increase access to higher education by halving tuition fees in the first year. At the same time, we hope that we will understand that this will be done away with by increasing interest rates on the study advance. In fact, it is precisely students who are forced to borrow relatively more that should pay the price for half the tuition fee. That is exactly what we should not want in terms of accessibility. We will therefore table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Postema, Mr Barth, Mr Sent, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vos proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular to the Treaty on the ……]] [[Whereas, at the same time, the intention is to join the ten-year interest rate for the study advance, which, in particular, restricts access to higher education for students who are forced to borrow relatively more;]] [[calls on the Government to refrain from joining the ten-year interest rate for the study advance and to consider its coverage within the framework of the integrated multi-annual treasury policy of the State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-M]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u379	Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u380	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u381	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their answers to our questions. I have just struggled with the reference to sensible economists and the question whether that is an oxymoron or a pleonasm. In any case, should the cabinet wish to reach out to the opposition, we hope that we have made it sufficiently clear what the content of that hand we want is. In particular, we have called for attention to be paid to a number of imbalances. Think of the taxes paid by sector, the property tax, the relationship between tenants and house owners and the distortion in the taxation of employees vis-à-vis the self-employed. I would like to highlight that, according to the Secretary of State, this last issue has the attention of the cabinet. I would ask him to report on this progress. I'd like to hear from him on what time we can expect this. We look forward to the fiscal policy agenda that we can expect in February, according to the Secretary of State. The government's approach to tax avoidance can count on our warm support. We look forward to the promised letter on this subject with interest. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the current Tax Plan package 2018. We've called attention to the greening call. We would like to continue to discuss with the cabinet the relative contribution of citizens and businesses as well as the relative contribution of the various income groups. We await with interest a follow-up to the commitment on the proposals to tax actual returns in box 3. As already stated in the first period, the Tax Exemption Act cannot count on our support, since extending the withholding tax exemption in the dividend tax would result in a budgetary loss of 30 million. Nor are we in favour of the proposal to phase out the Hills scheme. We do not have a vision of the housing market. I heard the Secretary of State say in the first term that he does not have a view on the desirability of the outcome that the purchasing power of property owners increases relatively harder than that of tenants. And we lack accompanying policies in the area of income and wealth distribution. More generally, we cannot judge the legislative process as carefully. We feel supported by Leo Stevens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u382	I have a very short question for Mrs Esther.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u383	Her name is Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u384	Mrs. Sent. Sorry, it's a little late. My apologies, Mirjam Sent. You have announced that you will vote against the draft law on holding cooperatives. This will have consequences in Brussels, which is contrary to EU law. That is why it needs to be introduced now. That's what you're buying? Those financial consequences may still be high.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u385	We would have preferred the Hoekstra motion to have been split from the legislative proposal, because of course we support one part of it, but we do not support the budgetary loss. Mr. Chairman. Finally, with the restriction, the Cabinet appears to reduce the attractiveness of frontier labour by applying tax rebates to foreign taxable persons. If I have heard the Secretary of State correctly, but correct me if I am wrong, he has promised to clearly identify the different options and consequences. He also promised to send a letter about this in the second quarter of 2018. As far as we are concerned, the starting point should be that cross-border work should not be disadvantaged. In addition, the provision of information should pay particular attention to the low-skilled workers. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We hope that the hand of the cabinet will contain the fiscal measures along the lines we outlined in the first term. In this hope, we will pay particular attention to the remaining responses of both government officials and be constructively critical of the government's fiscal ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u386	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u387	Mr. Chairman. I can be brief. I would like to begin by congratulating the two rulers on what can at least be called a promising debut. I look forward to many more. I also feel very well served by what they have said tonight. In my opinion, the questions I have asked have all been answered well and satisfactorily. If I make an exception to that general sentiment, it is on a subject which, in a sense, calls for it, namely the general theme of Europe. Something has been said about this, of course, but it is a recognised issue whose complexity and significance are very great. Why are they so big? This can be explained in many ways. More generally, Europe needs to think through the organisation of the cohesion that we want and the effects of this cohesion. In the words of the Minister, this tension between reciprocity and solidarity is perhaps complicated at the moment. However, the latter issue is also very important. The word "asymmetric shock-device" has been dropped once. The only time I had any real doubts about this cabinet's Europe policy was when the prime minister seemed to deny its existence. That seems to me to be a misconception of European reality. I suspect that we all suspect that there are very plausible scenarios in which these shocks can occur, without blaming a country, for completely exogenous reasons and for an appropriate response. This solidarity will have to be shaped in one way or another. We can learn from the United States, who at least have developed their own mechanism to absorb those asymmetries. It would then appear that cross-border efforts play a central role in this. If I am not mistaken, a new possible coalition in Germany will also want to make this solidarity a priority. Mr. Chairman. This tension between cohesion and solidarity, reworded yet again, makes Europe an important, but certainly not a peaceful asset. It is at least instructive to add an interesting footnote just today, given the 25-year review made by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. Those who haven't seen it yet: that overview of 25 years of development in the Netherlands actually offers a very surprising and also very positive picture of what the Netherlands is like. Positively, for example, when it comes to confidence in politics: constant, certainly not strongly declining, at most slightly fluctuating. Also very remarkable is the appreciation of the role of migrants in our society. This may be a pleasant surprise for the PVV colleagues. In fact, it is only one point of concern: that is precisely this point, namely the loss of confidence in Europe. If we signal that, then for everyone in this Chamber for whom Europe is dear, for everyone in this Chamber who believes in Europe, there is still a great deal of work to be done. And I hope that the cabinet will be very strongly committed to this category. I look forward to working with this cabinet together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u388	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u389	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for their answers. I am pleased to note that they are doing so driven and with ambition. They are in a beautiful tradition, but they also stáán there. I am also pleased to note this on the issues that are important to us: greening, stimulating and promoting the activity of real companies with long-term investment and long-term effects, rather than through-flow investments, and tackling, for example, interest relief. I'm not going to have the discussion about Vpb and dividend taxation anymore. We look forward to the package and will look into it. I am pleased that the Secretary of State will be presenting an agenda in February in which this ambition will be made concrete again. Then we'll discuss it with him. I think constructively when I listen to him like that. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I note that the Secretary of State characterizes the process on the subject that might have caused most emotions, the Hillen proposal, as 'fast but careful'. He introduced a word that reflects it nicely. Mr Van Rij, without mentioning me, indicated that there may not have been enough empathy in some of them on that subject. I wouldn't say that. I would like to point out that, in the light of this, we have also tried to counter the debate which has been very framed in the way that the Secretary of State has also clearly dissected. But I like the term "feeling purchasing power" used by the Secretary of State. That is an element I may have mentioned a little too little. Mr. Chairman. We talked about the border effects. I believe that the commitment that Mrs Sent, Mr Van Rij and I have made to you is the maximum for the time being. I am not going to deal with all the motions, just Mr Postema's motion on VAT. He's asking for an analysis, but I can't help but assume that that analysis has been made. I hope so, and I understand that from what the cabinet says. Only that analysis has led to a planned decision against which the Labour Party has actually acted since the first moment. So the investigation, if I understand it that way, is not an open investigation, but it leads to a position that you have already taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u390	I have heard the Secretary of State say that a working party has been working on a number of things. I don't know those results. That is why, last week, my group chairman asked for an amended motion to look into this in fact; let us actually map it, and we will indeed take the other fiscal measures with us. I'd say that's what we're all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u391	Okay, well, I understand what you're trying to do. Mr. Chairman. We've talked about bitcoins enough. I also welcome the answer to that. Finally, I would like to go back to what I started. In addition, I remain in Treub's tradition. You see how timeless things are sometimes. Because the debate at the time on progress was concluded with the following words from the Minister: 'The gentlemen who still have objections, or even think that there are serious errors in the proposal, I would like to persuade them with the following rule'. Mr. Chairman. With these wise words I wanted to end. I will give my group a positive opinion on the whole package. And on the assessment of the motions, I will discuss them further with my group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u392	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u393	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank these new rulers for the fine debate we have had with each other. I feel absolutely that attempts have been made to understand and understand each other. We appreciate that very much. Mr. Chairman. I said at the beginning of the debate: money is only money, it's what you do with it. In short, what are the choices of the cabinet? We have some critical questions about a number of choices. First of all, we are extremely critical of the reduction of taxes on capital and capital, especially as regards dividends and corporation tax. We can only conclude that the cabinet has not provided any support for the dividend tax measure. We have heard a wish, namely that we want to keep Dutch jobs, but in fact we have not received any answer to the question of how this is related to the abolition of dividend taxes, except that the Minister said: the forming parties have decided that. Mr. Chairman. If you are going to take such a measure, with such an impact on our budget, then you really need to examine whether you are moving towards the effects you are hoping for. My question to the cabinet is therefore: will you really investigate the effects of abolishing the dividend tax before you come forward with a legislative proposal? If we have an investigation, a good report, of you, we can also have a better discussion with each other, because then we can really discuss with you on the basis of arguments. So I'd like to hear from the cabinet whether it's planning to do something in that spirit. Mr. Chairman. On corporate taxation, the Secretary of State said: well, all kinds of other countries are already lower, like the Scandinavian countries. It is true that France, Germany, Italy and Belgium have a higher corporate tax rate than we do. The Netherlands is already very competitive, in fact the best in Europe in terms of competitiveness. In any case, the EU has a very low Vpb worldwide. So we see this step of the cabinet as: getting down and down with that VPb. We do not see the need for this and are rather afraid that we will really be in that race to the bottom. So we are not reassured on this point, we simply do not agree with the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the exemption for deductions that is being extended, I share what Mrs Sent has just said: we cannot live with the EUR 30 million that is going to cost us. For us, that is why we do not support this measure. I did not get an answer to the question as to how you could present such a robust fiscal package and introduce so much tax relief and create zero jobs structurally. I would still like to have some insight from the cabinet, because that is of course a very disappointing outcome. Mr. Chairman. As far as purchasing power and income are concerned, I have to say that the lowest incomes in the coming period are indeed less favourable than those above. The cabinet also says that high incomes benefit more from economic growth. We had expected that the cabinet would do more to make that right. I would like to ask the cabinet, following Mr De Grave's request, whether it is prepared to make the information on this inequality fully clear. The four indicators that the Minister has so beautifully written in his blue booklet say something about inequality, but they only run until 2014. Are you prepared to go through those indicators at least to 2017 and possibly also to the rest of this cabinet period? A number of comments on climate and environment. We are very surprised that citizens will pay twice as much greening tax as companies in the next cabinet period. The Secretary of State says yes, but they are compensated in other ways, but of course it is also a sense of justice. Is it right that citizens are really going to pay more taxes than companies? We do not think that is a good proposal. We would like this to be more proportionate. Finally, Mr President. The cabinet is taking steps towards greening, but in view of the enormous urgency, my group believes that it is still going far too slowly, especially with regard to the huge fossil subsidies that sustain the fossil industry. We would say that we need to speed up this, because we simply don't have many years to really reverse climate change. I would therefore like to table the next motion. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Postema, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Ganzevoort and Mr Ten Hoeve proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the report of the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) and Climate Action Network Europe (CAN-Europe) showed that the Netherlands supports the fossil sector at home and abroad by more than EUR 7.6 billion per year;]] [[Whereas in this way the government maintains dependence on fossil fuels and this is detrimental to the necessary transition to renewable energy;]] [[Considering that the Paris Agreement agreed that financial policies and public subsidies should be directed towards supporting efforts to achieve and at least not counter the climate objective;]] [[calls on the Government to identify fossil subsidies and to draw up a plan for their phasing-out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u394	Mr President, thank you very much. I came to the end of my second term. I'd like to wait for the answers from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u395	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering my group's questions. They made a nice entrance tonight. We look back on a pleasant debate. Thank you, too, to the officials who, until this late hour, assisted their directors with advice and deed. I always have a lot of respect for that. We are looking back at an intensive debate in which many issues have been reviewed. The Netherlands has the economic tide again, despite all the international uncertainties I outlined. My group is grateful for that, but that also creates obligations. Now we must take the Joseph principle into account to make every effort to repair the leaks in our financial roof and to ensure that we have our financial institutions up to date and that we make our crown jewels out of public services and public services. Investment in defence, education and the energy transition fits in well with that. In this light, we are seeing our sustainability deficit deteriorate. The minister indicated to have this sharp on the retina. My group will continue to follow him critically on this point. Mr President, I would like to make a few brief points. First of all, the Brexit. My group is pleased, if that is the right word, that both rulers share my analysis that the Brexit will hit our country hard, much harder than many think possible. It's good to hear that the cabinet is thinking through strategies. I would like to give it another thought to the possibility of bilateral agreements with the United Kingdom in the event of a hard Brexit. Much has been said about the dividend tax. Thank you for the clarification on this point. I see the advantages, but I also see the disadvantages of abolishing them. I would stress once again the need for a robust reasoning when submitting the legislative proposal and a clear cost-benefit analysis. My group has one more question on this point, which is actually a surprising simplicity: has it also been considered, for example, to halve the dividend tax instead of abolishing it as a whole? Then there's the tax avoidance. It is good that the Secretary of State spoke so passionately about the legacy he intends to leave on tax avoidance in three and a half years' time. We will be happy to follow him closely in the years to come. Thank you also for his commitment to my group to outline the final fiscal picture of our own home after the evaluation promised to my colleague Mr Van Rij. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, my group has repeatedly stressed the sometimes absurd marginal pressure in our income policy. This certainly applies to incomes between €22,000 and €32,000. We also discussed this in detail last year. Sometimes more than 100% tax is paid. The complex and complex system of surcharges is responsible for this. This leads to large differences between groups, between one and two earners. As is well known, the SGP has repeatedly drawn attention to this. Fortunately, we see that the planned cabinet policy reduces the marginal pressure. That's good news. My group would like Parliament to be informed every year at Prinsjesdag about the development of marginal pressure in our country and about government policy to further reduce that marginal pressure. I shall table the next motion for a resolution to that effect. The President shall: Mr Ester, Mr Van Rij, Mr Backer, Mr Schalk and Mr Van de Ven proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that in the follow-up to the Schalk c.s. motion for a resolution, (Room 34550, J) and the Omtzigt motion (Room 34552, No. 63) the survey "Marginal pressure in income policy" was delivered this spring;]] [[Considering that, as a result of the measures agreed in the government agreement, confidence in the future, the marginal pressure between €20,000 and €36,000 falls significantly, making work (more) and wage increases more attractive;]] [[Whereas, despite this decline, some of the workers in the WML-Modal section will still be exposed to high marginal pressure;]] [[Whereas it reduces the incentive for such workers to increase participation in the labour market or improve their position on the labour market, as well as the explainability and fairness of taxation;]] [[Calls on the Government to report annually to the Princess' Day papers on the development of marginal pressure, both on the average marginal pressure, the 5 and 95 percentage percentages and for the group (s) with the most extreme marginal pressure;]] [[calls on the government to consider explicitly how to further reduce extremes in marginal pressure in the annual decision-making process leading up to the Millions Note, the National Budget and the Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34775-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u397	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. My group can live well with the financial policy as outlined in the Millions Note, the coalition agreement and the Tax Plan. All groups share in prosperity gains and income disparities are contained, but we are obviously waiting for the legislative proposals. We recognise ourselves in the three battles to reduce the burden on labour and to increase consumption, to green our tax system and to tackle tax avoidance hard. In the latter case, it is primarily a matter of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u398	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors very much for their first reply. In fact, the fact that some of the tax measures are said to have no basis for their practical problems, and that other tax measures, such as the abolition of dividend taxes and the Hills Act, do not talk at all about acceptance and not about practical problems, even though they do exist. During this debate, the Minister said that the results of the abolition of dividend taxation are difficult to predict. That means it's a little Russian roulette after all. You don't know what it's gonna cost, you don't know what it's gonna cost, and you don't know what it's gonna do. As a result of this debate, the Financial Dagblad has already noted that there is only one government party that supports the complete abolition of dividend taxation and that there are three doubts. We will see next week whether the Financial Daily is right or whether it has been a big sham or perhaps a false perception of the reporter in question. It could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u400	Next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u401	Yes. There's gonna be a vote next week, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u402	Yeah, but not about the dividend tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u403	No, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u404	That proposal is yet to come. It also shows some respect for the financial newspaper: jump to conclusions. This morning's debate. The bill has yet to be submitted at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u405	Yeah, that's definitely true. But I've been saying for a while that it's the observation of The Financial Daily. I'll leave that on the paper, too, but at least it's his observation. Mr. Chairman. We can see that the greening measures have been delayed. In a number of ways this is done for valid reasons. You cannot introduce some policies overnight. On the other hand, however, Mr Vos has already mentioned this point, and there is a great urgency to do so as soon as possible. You see the cabinet in a number of ways just ruling over its grave by saying, for example, that we are going to introduce the ticket tax shortly after we have left ourselves. That's odd. Couldn't that be a little more hasty? With regard to plug-in cars, it remains a little unsatisfactory that the cabinet says that it is not so bad with exports and that it is not so bad that it is happening. I've just gotten a few more numbers. Until 2020, there will be 100,000 hybrid ex-lease cars on the second-hand market. 62% of these are exported according to VWE. That's a big deal. That's over 60,000 hybrid cars. Those are cars that we have done our very best for and for which we have all paid a lot of money to get people into the plug car. The Secretary of State said that the plug cars were not very environmentally friendly because a lot of riders did not go to the plug, but simply went to refuel because this was easier for them and because they already had a tank pass from the boss. That may be the case, but it is precisely the environmentally friendly use of these cars that is now coming, because individuals who buy such a car do go to the loading post because they make smaller distances and want to drive cheaper. At a time when the cabinet would like to leave that opportunity open to 60,000 individuals, it could contribute to the planned policy of getting more electric car trailers in the Netherlands and making more effective use of the loading fleet. If we leave that behind, I think it would be a real shame. The ANWB, the BOVAG and Nature & Environment advocate the preservation of these plug cars for the Netherlands. The BOVAG has a very simple mechanism for it and says: in Germany and in Hungary private individuals are encouraged with €3,000 subsidy on a second-hand car to buy one and we do nothing. Well, that's true. The BOVAG says: if you give a private person who buys a second-hand plug car a charge of €1,000, he will buy it and he will load it and that car will still be interesting for individuals. So far, the tax measures have actually only concerned the business market, which is exporting these cars very quickly, and not private use. Last year I tabled a motion on this. At that time, the Secretary of State said that it would not go so fast with exports. So it's going so fast. Over the past year, exports have tripled, and it is getting much bigger. For that reason, I am going to vote on my motion 34391, letter F of last year. I wanted to wait and see if what the Secretary of State said was true. That leaves me with a little time to come back to behavior change, which is essential, also for individuals. This is part of that. I hope the Secretary of State will reflect on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u406	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u407	Thank you, Madam President. Many thanks also to the rulers for the answer. I would like to characterize it as content and empathetic. We knew the Minister a bit here, but as far as the Secretary of State is concerned, I understand very well that D66 quickly made him a member a few months ago. I'd like to name a few more topics. The sovereign debt. The Minister has indicated that there must be a balance between two sides: the use of money for defence, education and care on the one hand and the debt on the other. I must say I agree with him on that. I myself, for example, during the General Political Reviews, strongly insisted on more money for defence, to name but a few. As far as the flat tax is concerned, I have indicated that you should actually start with a clean slate. The Secretary of State has confirmed this and indicated that it is indeed not a pure flat tax. But he said it was a step in the right direction. I have a question: what exactly does the Secretary of State mean when he says that this is a step in the right direction? So we're going to a clean flat tax? The third point I would like to make is about the single earner and the gap. I must say that I found it a generous commitment from the Minister and in body language from the Secretary of State. There's gonna be a CPB report. Next, the Ministry will discuss with the Lower House Group and the Upper House Group of the SGP and perhaps also with others here. That conversation is in a positive mode, given the gap between one earner and two earners. For the sake of clarity, I have one more question for the Minister: if we look at this problem, do we take the single people into account? We will, of course, consider the motions carefully for next week. I supported and signed the motion by Mr Ester. Moreover, it is very special that this motion embraces and strengthens my motion last year. That is special because at the time VVD and D66 did not support my motion, but they seem to want to report on the problem now and to have explicit consideration of how extremes in marginal pressure can be further reduced in the annual decision-making process. It's been noted. I count my blessings in that respect. Finally, I have already indicated that I have difficulty with the repeal of the Hills Act and the VAT agricultural regime, as outlined. This was about trust and also about the SCP report. I've taken a look at that report. I have to say, there are very nice things in there. It's a bit thick to read quickly, over 400 pages, but page 63 is equally crucial. That is what we are talking about, in particular, about trust in democracy, which is high, and in the government, not so much in politics, but in the government. 49% of the population trusts the government. 51% does not. You can build a coalition on that. So you need to read what it actually says. I was concerned, not only with those laws, but also with the small debate I had with Mr De Grave and Mr Backer, that the government must be reliable. I read in Proverbs 25.. I give the chapter to the enthusiasts... that trusting a faithful is like a broken tooth and a sprained foot. Trusting a loyal man is like a broken tooth and a sprained foot. So we shouldn't be a trustless government, we should be a trustworthy government. I wish that, of course, to the Cabinet, as I did last week, but also this Minister and this Secretary of State. Last week I said that my confidence in the future extends deeper and higher because we have a coalition agreement. I also wish this Minister and Secretary of State the same confidence, and I sincerely wish God's indispensable blessing on their work. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u408	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u409	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your answer, too. The profit of this debate is that the dividing line has become very clear today. 50PLUS wants not only workers, but all people in the Netherlands to benefit more from the economic recovery. We want equal purchasing power for workers, people who cannot work and people who have worked. The cabinet mainly favours the working middle groups. They're making the most of it. It is true that 50PLUS ignores the many households and the many hundreds of thousands of pensioners who get nothing or get less purchasing power in all the fine words about increasing purchasing power. The fact is that the Nibud has said that the vote on purchasing power is too positive. The image is too positive. The picture is that everyone is making progress, but in reality the purchasing power of most households will remain almost the same or will even decline. They won't have much to spend in 2018. It has already been said a number of times that according to the Nibud, the additional pension of €10,000 will be reduced by 1.5% next year. The Secretary of State then suddenly points out that there might be people with assets in them. That's not the point. It's about equal sharing in prosperity. There are now also many people who are improving on it and who have much greater abilities. Finally, the question of the Hills Act. Mr Van Rij has used strong words this morning. The rulers should use the necessary persuasion to pull the CDA group over the line. His last words on this subject were that turning pirouets should be avoided. But how much we enjoyed, Mr. Van Rij. Finally, what the Secretary of State has said. We think the Hillen analysis is clear and good. All arguments have been used. In itself it can never be perceived as a fine if you redeem; that is correct. But it is perceived as a fine as something you have long and hard spared from being taken away from you, while that was not in any election programme. I fear that if the cabinet wins this home game, there will be little applause after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u410	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u411	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for their often clear, clear and concrete answers. The Minister spoke of the European Union. He mentioned commitment, groups and conditions. In commitment, I'm very comfortable with myself. I can imagine the groups on certain points. And sometimes you have to set conditions. Mr Rinnooy Kan spoke explicitly about solidarity. I must say that I agree even more with him that this is ultimately the most essential thing in the European Union. This does not alter the fact that some forms of solidarity may be called for first. Let me give you the example of the European deposit guarantee scheme. There has to be, but not yet. Something has to be done first. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I mentioned the President of the Eurogroup. With Juncker, I do indeed vote for a permanent president of the euro group, who is embedded in the European Commission. The euro is the currency of the European Union. This means that Europolitics must also take place within the structures of the European Union and be able to be discussed in the European Parliament. Parliament is entitled to that. This is European politics. Then there's a whole other point. I believe that the Secretary of State said that it was a tough approach to tax avoidance and a good locational climate in one breath. I very much agree with the first point. We need to tackle tax avoidance hard. We have a bad name because of our rulings and our facilitation of avoidance. If the Secretary of State sees a chance to lose that bad name in this period, then he has achieved a great success. But he also mentions the good locational climate. Then I think: we have always wanted to ensure that, precisely with the rulings and the facilities we offered. So shouldn't we be a little careful with that? That is why I am pleased that the government is at least saying that, despite the subsidiarity concerns of the two Chambers, we want to continue to think positively about the proper implementation of the CCCTB. Because if the CCCTB could get there, at least we know what we are burdening the companies, and we are not just Europe as a whole. Then there is no room for rulings that undermine politics. Then there's clarity. The last point is the race to the bottom. At this point, I am not entirely convinced. The Minister said that our new corporate tax rates are only slightly below the European average. But the problem is, of course, that the average always tends to fall. The Minister himself clearly states that. He is addressed by others with the communication: we intend to reduce our corporate tax. Yeah, that's how we all work. How do we stop this process? That's the big question. It is likely that this will only stop if we can agree on what can reasonably be asked of companies as a contribution to the general situation. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u412	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I'm gonna take a look at the two rulers. Are you able to answer directly? You're nodding, yes. Good. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance for the second term of office on the part of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u413	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I'd like to go straight ahead, because by 11.30 p.m., the Secretary of State and I are just getting warmed up. I also realize that you want us to make even more haste than in the first term. I begin by thanking the members of your house for their questions and their attitude. I'm gonna pass the questions that have remained lying more or less clustered. I will start with a number of things that relate to the budget. I would once again like to thank Mr Ester for pointing out that he is keeping an eye on the money, even in the long term. He referred again to King Joseph's granary. I see an encouragement in that. I would like to invite the spokesmen, I have already done so briefly in the first term, to make this encouragement to me theirs. I believe that the first possibility is already present in this debate in one or more of the motions. I have never realized that the milking orbits should have been called the "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De I will leave it in the middle whether Mr De Grave should regret it or whether he got away well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u414	Mr. Chairman. Before there's a misunderstanding, I was talking about the bypasses. You have milking courses and then there should be a new kind of job. There was a milking orbit between a real orbit, a flow-through orbit. That should be called the "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De Gravebaan" or "De They're called throughstreams, but that's different from milking orbits. A milking rink is really going to be called a milking rink.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u415	Thanks for the precision. I also understand that Mr De Grave is disappointed that he has not yet tabled a motion. At least I'm going to see what name comes along my plate, see if I can name Mr. De Grave anywhere. I would like to thank Mr Van Rij for all his skating equations. Ard and Keessie. I am not quite sure if that is the level that the Secretary of State and I can achieve, but when Mr Van Rij said those words, I had to think of a saying that I think is from Nietzsche, but I am not sure. It says: the smooth ice is a paradise for the man who can dance to it. I am thinking more of Mr Van Rij than of myself, because I have been told so many times that I have no talent for dancing that I no longer try to do so. I do skating only moderately, by the way. Then there is the question of buffers and the Council of State. I believe that Mr Van Rij fully supports the point made by Mr De Grave, Mr Rinnooy Kan and Mr Ester and many others about prudent policy and economy, if I may call it that. He suggested to study again on the three options offered by the Council of State. That's what I'm gonna do. In my view, I have a little more time for that because there is no longer any possibility of putting that into practice in the short term. I therefore propose that I continue to study this and Mr Van Rij and others will at some point share the result of that study. Then I'll be with what I've clustered as "income equality." I shall begin with Mrs Vos's question, because it was in that category as far as I am concerned. That question was about the indicators. I had already written enthusiastically 'yes' until I saw the answer of my officials. That was: no, we can't. I also understand why. I think it is right, because the figures go until 2014. Those are figures, taken from the Millions Note. I am happy to admit that, as soon as new figures are available, I will share them with this Chamber. In any case, we are going to update the Blue Book every year based on what has appeared in the Millions Note. Then I talked to Mrs Vos and Mr Postema and Mr Van Apeldoorn about the gini coefficient. I think what I said about the long term is true. That's what the CPB report said. Which wasn't in the CPB report, which... let me be more precise. The long term and the 2.7% were included in the CPB report. What I do not think was in the CPB report, but what has been exchanged in response to a question from the House of Representatives, that is the shorter term, that is to say the duration that this government intends to complete. I think that's the right wording. It's 1.1%, so it's positive. So both are positive relative to the base path. Had there been no policies on this subject, it would have looked worse for bringing income together. Then there is the question of whether incomes are getting better or worse. We had this discussion on the basis of the memorandum by the Minister of SZW. Mr Postema referred to that. I've been looking very closely. What I said, that's right. Those are just numbers that were about the median. The figures Mr Postema refers to are, in my view, even more precise. If I say it correctly, you can distill that 94% is indeed progressing, but 6% is falling between 0% and 2%. That, I believe, is as stated in the memorandum of the Minister of SZW. That clarification on his part is correct. Mr Van Apeldoorn has asked me to come to the Kox motion too quickly in the first term. He even asked about the importance of the theme "children in poverty." He will remember our good cooperation here that this subject was and has my extraordinary interest. I think this is an issue that we have to deal with, however difficult it may be. I also have the impression that this is what the cabinet is doing with the adjustment of the care allowance and the child-related budget. We are also going to make serious work of the motion. I agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn that almost everything in life can always be faster, but I only took note of the debate and the motions on Wednesday. In those six days I have not yet been able to come up with a sufficiently complete answer which I think will please Mr Van Apeldoorn. I just need a little more time for that. Then there is the elderly and Mr Van Rij's question about the referendum. The cabinet immediately agrees with Mr Van Rij. Mr Nagel is perfectly entitled to hold a referendum. I understand Mr Van Rij's question in such a way that it would also be wise to explain again what the position of the elderly actually is. I'd be happy to. It is generally good to stress that older people are in a very good position in the Netherlands compared to older people abroad. I believe that only the elderly have a better position in Luxembourg. It is also true that among all groups in the Netherlands poverty is nowhere so low as among the elderly. If you look at all age groups, older people are the least likely to be in poverty. I propose that I devote a further letter to it and share it with this one and also with the House of Representatives. In that I will outline this issue in more detail. A few additional comments on Europe, solidarity and what I referred to as'reciprocity'. I understand very well the apple, the invitation to think of solidarity as well. However, I also attach great importance to this reciprocity for the reasons we have exchanged, but I would like to add something. It is my conviction, and that of the cabinet, that what I might call the Northwest European medicine is a paradox that will also prove to be in the interests of the southern Member States. It is unwise to make Dutch taxpayers' money available with too much ease to countries that do not have their houses in order, but I really think it is a paradox that a certain degree of rigour and a great deal of the things that we also aim to do in the Netherlands - a trendary fiscal policy, the respect of the Stability and Growth Pact - will benefit citizens in those countries which are experiencing difficulties. The paradox is that this will also prove to be good for them in the long term. This does not make the task of achieving policy any less complicated. Then I have two more things to deal with in the category of 'work' and 'wage dispensation'. Mrs. Vos asked about the extra jobs. The CPB has passed on the government agreement and it shows that structural employment is increasing by 0.2% as a result of the measures. We also see that, in the medium term too, employment is rising and unemployment is falling as a result of the package. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the pay dispensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u416	A little thing. I asked about the employment effects of the fiscal package. That's what the CPB said: they're zero. The fiscal package is, of course, also quite extensive, so I was honestly surprised, or it seemed disappointing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u417	I'm going to leave that to the Secretary of State, except for that disappointment, of course. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the pay dispensation. That was something that had stayed out of the first term, if I'm being honest. Unintended, but still. In the coalition agreement, wage costs subsidies to the employer for new cases are replaced by compensation for the employee. This has yet to be worked out. The SZW Secretary of State for the budgetary treatment of SZW comes with a letter on this subject. I would therefore like to ask Mr Van Apeldoorn for some extra time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u418	Maybe it speaks for itself, but that letter will also come to the First Chamber? Then I don't have to keep track of it coming our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u419	Let me make sure that this is kept up to date for Mr Van Apeldoorn. I have also stored well that during the introductory meeting the members asked that letters to the First Chamber should also be addressed to the First Chamber and not a copy of those to the Second Chamber. I'll present that with the proper courtesy here. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked about the capital requirements and the leverage ratio. I think I have already said that the cabinet is committed to a financial sector that is solid and stable. We think it is wise that the buffers have been tightened and that good agreements have been made on how we deal with banks in trouble. I have also indicated that we are not yet here and that, as far as the banking union, which we certainly embrace, is concerned, there are still very difficult steps to be taken, including in Europe. It is also good to say that we are positive about what the Basel Committee has done and about the agreement that has been reached. I think I referred to that as well. The jumping point Mr Van Apeldoor was looking for is: where is the percentage for the Netherlands? In my opinion, the Netherlands has always worked towards a higher percentage for system banks. It's gonna stay that way. This is a 4% percentage. The Basel agreements are also a good starting point for the debate in Europe, but this discussion is not yet ready. There is currently a 3% requirement for all banks, but the Netherlands is committed to a leverage ratio for all systemically relevant banks of at least 4%. I do not know whether that is entirely in line with Mr Van Apeldoorn's wishes. He also mentioned much higher percentages. The question remains as to how this discussion will ultimately work out. I would like to add this comment. We're not the only ones involved. Then I'll be back at the dividend tax. If I have seen it correctly, some members of this Chamber and the Cabinet are not quite in agreement yet. I do not know whether it is wise for me to repeat the argument again. I honestly don't think so. It is true that the Prime Minister has already said that at the time when the bill is here, the full argument will appear. I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that we will also exchange the examples that have been exchanged with the House of Representatives, including the various categories, with the First Chamber. At any rate, that will give some clarity at an earlier stage. If I am not mistaken, there is one question left by Mr Ester, namely whether we could have halved the dividend tax and whether that was the case. I didn't go to that trial. My cautious pattern recognition is that, given the complexity of a four-party negotiation, almost all kinds of variants have been discussed in less or more detail. My suspicion is that this has also been the case here. I'm dealing with the outcome as it is on the table. Then I'll be on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u420	I have one more question to make sure. On behalf of the VVD Group, I have asked a number of explicit questions about the dividend tax. Is that what you're talking about? I asked for the justification of the estimate, the extent to which the estimates are structural, in conjunction with the proposals on the subject of... I mentioned a whole zipper. Can I understand that this will be discussed at the time when the concrete legislative proposal is in place?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u421	To be honest, repeating my first-term response did not seem to me to be the best idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u422	You didn't answer my questions in the first term either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u423	No, no, sure, but a lot of questions have been asked from the Chamber. Mr De Grave has put a number of them, so has Mrs Vos and others. The point made by Mr De Grave himself is, in any case, that I have interpreted: we can have this debate, but in part it is premature, because we are about to get a legislative proposal and there is normally always a statement of reasons. I have understood Mr De Grave and others in such a way that the explanatory statement should also answer the various questions that have already been asked. When I see to it that these issues and sub-topics are included in the explanatory statement, I think I have complied with the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u424	Before the Minister starts the motions: I have asked the question, in addition to thanks for the generous undertaking and so on about looking at the gap between the single and the two-earners, whether the problems of the single people could also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u425	I apologise to Mr Schalk. It was such a small leaf with such a short question that it was lost somewhere in the pieces, which I myself folded together. The answer is yes. What I would like to add is that I realise that, although this subject has the particular interest of Mr Schalk, it goes without saying that there will be discussions in both Chambers with all the Members who feel called to do so. I have the motions on my property in front of me. The Secretary of State asked me if it is true that he is now supposed to talk first and that we then make the motions together. Or shall we keep the division therein?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u426	Let's be efficient. Now discuss the motions that lie on your property.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u427	I'd love to. Then I'll start with the Ester c.s. motion. with letter O over the marginal pressure. It is good to recall that, in the case of marginal pressure, it is very important to look at this in conjunction with the overall income policy. This marginal pressure is a consequence of the overall system of taxes and surcharges. SZW reports on income policy in the budget. It also reports on incentives for entry into employment, poverty trap and limited marginal pressures. I propose that this report on marginal pressure be adapted to the wishes of Mr Ester. I believe that this is the way forward for the motion. With these comments, I leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. I do not want to get rid of Mr Ester's motion, but I would like to assure him that I think we are going to meet it. The motion of Mrs. Vos c.s. With letter N, I must advise against. The coalition agreement is ambitious in terms of climate goals. Moreover, it is explicitly the case that we want to conclude another climate agreement. I remember very well from the debate on the government statement that the most concrete and first example of the outstretched hand was that the very first appointment made by Mr Wiebes with one of the members of the States-General was with Mr Klaver, who was explicitly invited to come and think about it. He certainly won't be the only one. I would like to discourage the motion, but I would like to stress that we are looking for a climate agreement, in which we will not be limited to police, but also, as far as the police are concerned, not only to the coalition. I've come to two motions on education. In my view, it is not necessary to stress once again that 1.7 billion is a lot of money, many of which are done wisely. Let me just say a few words about the motions. The first motion is the motion under letter L. I'd really like to dissuade them. There's no cover for that. While process and content are interwoven, there is no coverage for it. The ministers of OCW and BVOM want to regulate this saving outside the primary process. They're working on the work. I wouldn't want to disturb them in that way. Then there is the motion on ten-year interest in conjunction with halving the tuition fees in the first year. I would also advise against this, because there is no cover for it and because I do not fully support the problem described. So my opinion on this motion is also: dissuade. That almost brings me to the real end. Maybe I'll be the last to finish with a quote I used when I said goodbye to you and your members at the Hall. So I've already used it. That's always dangerous. But it's too beautiful not to repeat. Besides, it's not my own. It's Eric Vrijsen's. The First Chamber is a reptile house, full of motionless but life-threatening snakes. Senators combine intransigence with patience and a perfect sense of timing. Eventually, ministers are not going to do so. Let me try to study in the Christmas Streces on an answer to make sure that fate doesn't affect me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u428	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u429	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have also been asked to me. I don't have that many motions left, I believe only two. A number of them have already been explained by the Minister. Mr Van Strien once again explicitly asked me whether it was true that the house would fall as the WWZ value rises, in the same ratio. The answer is very brief: yes. Mr Van de Ven has asked about the justification of the lowest rates of deduction if there are four rates in the future. Why is the lowest one taken and was not chosen, for example, for an average? In itself, these are pretty fascinating system questions. It's not like there's only one good answer. A different composition could have been chosen here. At the same time, before I answer this, I think it is wise to point out the following. The introduction of this social flat tax is not a pure flat tax, but it is in any case a social tax is included in a programme for next year. In addition, we come up with a very comprehensive story as to why we change the law as we do. I think it would be nice to address the question of why we chose this rate and whether other rates could not be considered. Those are just interesting system questions. I think it is a good thing that we pay more attention to this with each other at the moment when this legislative amendment is in place. Mr Van de Ven also asked about the prevention of double taxation. He wanted to know if I am in favour of a credit system, in which you should go up to the Dutch level. Is that where we're going? The answer is no. I am not really in favour of such a credit system. It does not really fit in with the Dutch tax treaty policy and everything we do about it. That treaty policy was also discussed and approved extensively by the Second and First Chambers. I think that the system we have, with a participation exemption, is actually better than the credit system. However, if I have to, of course, I am always prepared to have a big discussion about it, because here too the world is not black and white and is in full swing. Mr Van Rij asked how we were going to prepare for the referendum. Or did the Minister just answer that? It is, isn't it? He just answered this, so I don't have to do that anymore. Mrs Sent asked when the cabinet will report on the self-employed, because we have announced a number of policy initiatives. For the replacement of the DBA Act, the cabinet wants to complete legislation already in 2019. Before that, of course, apart from the legislative proposal itself, the Minister of SZW and I will regularly inform the Chamber of the state of play, including with regard to the results we have with the social partners in this field and the sector itself. Mr Schalk asked another question about the flat tax. I just briefly mentioned that. Is the step to two rates actually a step towards a real, pure flat tax with one rate? I said in one sentence: this is already a nice step. By that I did not mean a nice step towards that pure, one rate for everything and everything. There are incredibly many interesting advantages to that, but also disadvantages. I think I wanted to say above all that what the government is doing is a step in that direction, but it is certainly not a promise that a further step towards a single, pure flat tax will be taken in this cabinet. I think that the step we are taking now, especially with regard to progressivity and its effects on one and two-earners, will make Mr Schalk quite satisfied. Finally, there was one question from Mrs Vos, who was asked to the Minister but which he passed on, about the fiscal package and employment. This has come back to the questions before. Of course, I understand that Mrs Vos, like several people, is disappointed that the fiscal package is positive in the short term, but unfortunately the structural effects on employment lead to a similar outcome to the basic path. That has a bit to do with the fact that there is a lot of progress in income. Of course, there is also a certain trade-off between income growth and labour supply. It's all part of the game. Of course we had hoped for a wonderful outcome, but zero is what the CPB has calculated. We cannot deny that. I understand the disappointment. Then we have two more motions. The first is Mr Postema's motion. That is actually Mrs Barth's amended motion on VAT. In itself, a number of considerations are mentioned in that motion. It was actually my intention to deal with all kinds of effects in my response. That's what I did. What do you think it means? What about the border effects? There are several reports that indicate that these kinds of shifts are beneficial to prosperity. The effects on micro-levels are really unexplorable, no matter how much we may want them to be. The paribus paribus effect is simply unmeasurable and can never be separated from the other measures we are taking. In short, there are many reports that indicate this. Perhaps I will help Mr Postema and Mrs Barth again by presenting to your Chamber all the reports I have quoted to indicate those effects. I see less in a very comprehensive, new impact analysis. In fact, given what we discussed, I see that as a kind of superfluous knowledge. That's why I'd like to dissuade the motion. The last motion was not read because it was held last time by Mr Koffeman, but I think it was about the export promotion and the advantages for plug-ins. About not promoting export of the plugins, so. We normally think of the word 'promoting export credits' as 'promoting export credits'. In the second letter of car we have all indicated very clearly where this cabinet wants to go, especially to the fully electric cars. We have indicated that there is a half-rate in the mrb for the second-hand plug-ins. That's a lot. We are certainly doing no less here than other countries in Europe. We can't take care of everything tax. I do not see an export stop directly as a very good and liberal solution. Furthermore, Minister Kamp has previously informed the Chamber that a subsidy on electric motor vehicles is not so effective. The last consideration in my unusual opinion is that the amount of cars that we think have been exported is not that bad if you look at the total amount of hybrid cars and electric cars that drive around in the Netherlands. So I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u430	Mr. Koffeman, can you keep your interruption brief at midnight?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u431	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says that we are not doing very differently than the surrounding countries. That is factually incorrect. Those surrounding countries give €3,000 subsidy to individuals who buy such a car. That makes an uneven playing field. I think that the Secretary of State should do a little more in-depth work than just make a statement, because even at midnight you shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u432	I certainly wouldn't say anything. I was referring specifically to taxation. In other countries, these subsidies are not in taxation but in an expenditure scheme. That is why I gave the answer that Mr Kamp had previously given to your Chamber, namely that these subsidies are less effective. So this wasn't just a claim. I tried to put the facts here. Madam President. That brings us... I had hoped to be able to say "Twenty-two." It would also be nice if a debate on Hillen and the Tax Plan for midnight had ended. I'm afraid I couldn't do that. I am sorry, but it was a great honour for me to discuss this interesting subject with you today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u433	Thank you and my compliments to both of you. I had also thought: perhaps it will be the clock of twelve or perhaps later. It's 12:02. Well, I like that a lot. It's worth a compliment. But before you think it's done, we're not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-eerstekamer-7.u434	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. I'll do that by bill. Would any of the members like to vote on the 34785 bill, the 2018 Tax Plan? That's the case. About 34786, Other fiscal measures 2018? That's the case. About 34787, the Abolition of the VAT Agricultural Scheme? That's the case. About 34788, the law on retention holding cooperative and extension retention exemption? That's the case. About 34819, Amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 to the gradual phasing-out of the deduction due to no or low household debt? That is also the case. I propose that we vote on all these legislative proposals next Tuesday. I also propose to vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled during the debate, the motion by Mr Koffeman held last year and the amended motion by Mr Barth and others.
