ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin with Mrs Kuik's question on behalf of the PvdA Group to the Minister for Legal Protection. The Minister is here because the Minister of Justice and Security could not be present. The question is about Pegida's action against the construction site of a mosque in Enschede. I call Mrs Kuiken on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. In Enschede, supporters of the right-wing extremist organization Pegida took action against the construction of a mosque. They smeared the building site with pig blood. The mayor of Enschede has described this action as horrible, as a measure that the Ku-Klux-Klan could implement. I share his opinion on this and hope that the Minister will give up this action, as the Mayor of Enschede has done. But I am particularly concerned, Mr President, because Enschede seems to have become more of a safe haven for Pegida lately in order to carry out demonstrations and speak out openly against democracy. We must realize that the construction of a mosque is embraced by a majority of the council. The vote was taken, subject to certain conditions. Pegida seems constantly looking for ways of contradicting those democratic decisions, with terrible, undemocratic actions. My question to the Minister is: what can we do now to help Enschede deal with this kind of unwanted scum and prevent Enschede but also other places from becoming a kind of refuge for these kinds of organizations? Pegida doesn't miss a chance to act undemocratically. What can we do now, even afterwards, to tackle these kinds of actions? After all, it is about hate-sowing. Maybe there are other things we can handle. What is legally possible to fight Pegida? My final question for now is: has the minister or cabinet had contact with the mayor to jointly see what is possible to take action against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. I can fully follow Mrs Kuik and I can emphasise with the mayor and with her that I really condemn this action. I find it a disgusting, disgusting action and can imagine that this unnecessarily offensive action also leads to a lot of questions and uncertainty for the community in Enschede, not only among Muslims who live there but also in the administration that is wondering: what is happening here, what can we do about it? There's been contact in the last few days. My colleagues Grapper House of JenV and Ollongren of the Interior have spoken to the mayor. The prosecution has informed us that it is currently investigating whether and to what extent there have been criminal offences. I cannot go into that too much myself in the investigation. But we're on top of it. Administratively and also from agencies such as NCTV there are good relations with the local authorities there. Then more generally: what can we do against these kinds of actions? I think three things. First of all, we can set a very clear standard. You can do a lot in the Netherlands and freedom of expression goes a long way, of course, but it knows its limits. I think the D.A. and the police are there to tell us where those boundaries are. Secondly, we are also following anti-democratic and extremist groups in the Netherlands. Next week or the week after that, you will receive a new threat image from the NCTV which will also focus on Pegida. We see that this group in the Netherlands is getting smaller but also seems to become more radical. In addition, from the NCTV we also provide support to local government and, for example, mosque authorities in what they can do to secure their mosques properly. Then it is not just about hard security if there really is a current threat picture, because then police and mayor come back around the corner. You can also do a number of things preventively to be vigilant. A guide has been developed for this. It is also available for mosque authorities in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers and yet it looks like a toothless tiger. Of course, it is not the first time that we have had the debate in this house about hatred, violence and creeping threats that affect people, in this case on the right-wing extremist side, which affects Muslims in the heart of their trust, including in the government. We have the Dutch flag, which stands before me for the rule of law. It is precisely about the fact that democracy is very high and that we have to respect it for all people. The Minister is right to say that we need to see how we can deal with these undemocratic organisations, but we have been talking about this for a long time. Can the Minister give us a look at what he's thinking about? What is the Public Prosecutor looking at and at what time can we, as a Chamber, expect a response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr. Chairman. I want to fight that this is a toothless tiger. This isn't the first incident in Enschede. Last year there was an even more serious incident in my view, when an existing mosque was confronted with a number of people throwing in molotov cocktails and setting fire. Police and prosecutors have acted there and that has also led to the conviction of five people, with fairly high sentences. So this is definitely not a toothless tiger. Police and D.A. are involved in criminal acts. For the rest, it is important from the point of view of national security that we monitor a number of groups that we are concerned about. That's exactly what's happening here. So they also have the increased attention of all these bodies, so that action is also taken if something happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u7	There is no doubt that the police and prosecutors are acting when there are clear criminal offences, but the problem here is that these are sneaking trials, in which they are harassing and hurting democracy and harming people in their safety. We are constantly talking about the same type of organizations as we are now in Enschede, which almost seems to be a refuge for Pegida. My question is, therefore, when can we expect that investigation by the State and the police in which we are given more tools to deal with this kind of undemocratic, right-wing extremist, totally out-of-the-line clubs better and more effectively?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u8	Police and prosecutors are investigating criminal offences following the actual incident last Sunday. As you know, that is not something we control in this house when it comes to individual criminal matters of this kind. I also believe that it is entirely part of the rule of law that we give the public prosecutor his free and independent role in finding that out. So if you're asking me when the investigation is coming your way, I'm having a hard time saying that. But I can give you a serious look at it. That is also very important to me, especially when it comes to these kinds of actions, which concern both local government and a lot of people in Enschede.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u9	First of all, let me say that what has happened there is appalling. People are really scared. This is disruptive. It is very good that the Minister takes this seriously. Can I only include one aspect? We understand that Pegida's foreman has actually made a threat that it will not stop there. I would like to know from the Minister and at least hear the important reassurance that action will be taken on this extreme threat, which we cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u10	I have to report that this is part of the investigation that police and prosecutors are doing. I myself think it is very unwise to go into such an individual examination very extensively as a political one, because then we are going to do the work again. We can use that to damage the investigation again. If criminal acts have been committed, we must also give the D.A. the opportunity to act accordingly. Anything we discuss here in detail could damage that investigation. Then we shoot ourselves in the foot. I don't think we should. When it comes to the more general threat picture of groups that we are concerned about, of course we have the NCTV, which maps that widely in the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands. This is to a large extent the threat from jihadist extremist organisations, but extremist organisations on the right must also be included. That means there is increased alertness when it comes to moving these kinds of groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u11	This is indeed a completely disgusting action by Pegida. Let me stress that this has nothing to do with freedom of expression. This is not an opinion, it is purely a provocation, as the mayor of Enschede quite rightly says. There has not yet been a dialogue or discussion; it is merely a provocative action. It's very reprehensible. My question to the Minister is as follows. Research by the University of Amsterdam would show that a great deal of discrimination against Muslims is not properly recorded but recorded as destruction. That's another fact. Is that right? If so, what can the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u12	I don't know the research that's being referred to, but I'm gonna dive in. The police have the right task to take seriously all complaints that come in when it comes to discrimination, threats and intimidation. We need to focus on this, even when it comes to discrimination against Muslims, because that is reprehensible and very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u13	Perhaps I could give the Minister a hand with the colleague's question just now. Three years ago, it was agreed with Minister Opstelten and Mr Asscher, at that time as Minister, that a test would be started in Amsterdam. At first, that was to be able to register cases under the heading Islamophobia. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u14	I should check that out. It's with my colleague. If you wish, I can have you informed in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u15	A second supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u16	Yes, but about the contents of Enschede. You referred to it. You were talking about arson. That was a terrorist attack in Enschede, so people haven't been able to recover from it. In the last six months there have been seven incidents involving pig heads and occupation. There has also been an occupation in Leiden, I say to Mr Beertema. There have been several occupations. Pig heads have been laid down and mosques have been threatened, as recently, in April, the As-Soennah mosque. We see mosques getting violence training. Sometimes they also close the doors and ensure their own safety. When is the cabinet really going to work to support these mosques, instead of that hand-out or manual? When are you really gonna help them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u17	First of all, I hear a qualification that I leave with the speaker. Once again, I would like to point out that the D.A. and the police are currently investigating the existence of criminal offences. Please, let's not anticipate that. When it comes to security and the threat to certain communities and mosques, there is always a responsibility for agencies to provide a basic level of security. A lot can happen in my eyes. That's exactly why that guidance was given. Examples include camera surveillance and key policy. Think, for example, of the alertness you can organize around these kinds of buildings and agencies. They can help a lot. When it comes to an acute threat, there must be a good connection, for example, between a mosque administration and the local authorities. That is not something we do from national policy. This concerns the mayor and the local police. If there is an acute threat, they may take additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-14-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you.
