ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State. We are dealing with legislation, so that means that the various speakers are free in the speaking time they use, but all speakers have given up between six and ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is good to see that the public gallery is once again full of this extremely important subject. So you see: education lives! On the law that we are discussing today, I would almost say that D66 is extremely positive against my custom It is good and important that we look forward and ensure that there is and remains good education in all regions of the Netherlands. What opportunities you're offered shouldn't depend on where you grow up. For this we need more flexibility in our system. This law is going to provide them, because the law makes transposition, extension with a direction or relocation of schools easier. There was already the right of assent of participation in school mergers and advisory law on closure. This legislative proposal also introduces the need to consult the grassroots in the event of a merger or closure, so that parents and staff are fully involved in such a decision. I told you, we are very positive about this law. Actually, I only have one question. In the view of my group, it is ensured on all sides that the maximum degree of support for fusion and closure is ensured in the school and in the surroundings of the school. The question arises as to the role of the merger test. I do not want to make a final statement on this at this time, but I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State. How's he looking at this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. Public authorities have an important role to play in ensuring a good and accessible supply of education. Children and parents should feel at home at school and education should always be of sufficient quality. That seems simple, but it is actually quite complex, because in the Netherlands there is a big drop in pupils. Of course, this drop in pupils varies by region and even by municipality, but the national trend is clearly visible. Especially in shrinking areas it is fast, but also in the Randstad there is a significant decrease in the number of pupils in some municipalities and submunicipalities. The aim of the bill we are discussing is to make this complex challenge a little easier. The aim of the proposal is to broaden the rules to make it easier to convert a public school into a special school or vice versa, and to change or extend the direction of a school. Rules for moving a school are also being extended. At the moment, this can only happen if a school achieves the foundation standard in the foreseeable future. Of course, this is impossible for schools that have to deal with shrinkage. In order to ensure their survival, they want to convert the school or change direction. GroenLinks supports this extension, but still has a number of questions to the Secretary of State. For example, the Secretary of State wants the school to apply to the Minister for change or change direction. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, it is not yet clear on what grounds the Minister will assess these applications. The Secretary of State states that, for example, a declaration of no objection from other schools can be taken into account in the judgment. My group is curious as to what other issues are relevant to the assessment, because any form of arbitrariness must be avoided. The Secretary of State also wants to avoid strategic behaviour. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance welcomes this, because schools cannot be expected to benefit from the rules, such as the last school of a direction, and can therefore be an exception to the termination of funding. That is why my group agrees with the proposal that a school cannot benefit from the exception for the last school of a direction when it is transposed. However, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants to ask whether there is an assessment of the development of public schools in the Netherlands. At present, almost 70% of primary schools are special and only 30% are public. As far as we are concerned, this does not reflect the population. For our group, therefore, it is important that sufficient public education remains available. We want parents to always have the option between public schools. For the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, it is important that the staff and the parents are sufficiently involved in major changes. The law on participation has been strengthened in recent years by the need to consult participation before exercising consent and advisory powers in the event of merger or closure. Mr Bruins has tabled an interesting amendment which states that, even if a school is converted or the basis is changed, the grassroots must be consulted. We find this an interesting amendment. I'm curious about the Secretary of State's opinion. Would the grassroots consultation not also be an option for moving a school across the feeding area? This is the spirit of Mr Kwint's amendment. We are curious to hear the Secretary of State's response. What we are curious about is what the grassroots consultation looks like. I would like to receive a response from one of my colleagues or perhaps from the Secretary of State. My final point is about the founding and lifting standards. These are now determined every five years on the basis of the up-to-date pupil density per municipality. Is it not possible to establish this once every three years? When I look at the map with statistics on the website Leerlingenselling.nl, I see that in eight years in about a quarter of the regions there is a drop of 30% or more. But we also see that there are regions in which there have been many more pupils. In short, a lot happens in five years. The Secretary of State is focusing on the mid-term division of the territory, but we are therefore wondering whether the standards can be updated more frequently. Then we'll make the future even more future-proof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr. Chairman. There's nothing wrong with a little elementary school. In fact, small-scale education can have important advantages for pupils and parents: the director knows almost every student by name, the older and younger students learn and play together and you are not a number but a name. I myself was a little girl at a little elementary school in the Flevopolder. The director and the teachers worked hard to shape the ideal of small-scale teaching in the Catholic direction. Unfortunately, however, it was not always possible to guarantee the best possible quality of education. For example, due to the low number of pupils, there were many combinations. Therefore, despite the small scale of the school, it sometimes lacked personal attention in the classroom. For children who needed extra guidance or extra challenge, was not always eye. I myself have spent many afternoons reading library books because I had already finished my work. If teachers were ill or absent for longer periods of time, it was sometimes difficult to arrange good replacement. In my class in sixth grade, that unfortunately led to the lessons we were given left rather to be desired. Unfortunately, after a time of conversation with the school, several parents chose eggs for their money. Despite their preference for the direction of the school, they took their child away from going to the larger public school in the village, with fewer combination classes and more teachers. Strangely enough, there was more attention for every individual in the class. I also switched schools and I didn't get any worse, but I say that I wouldn't have missed the years at the small, safe school. The legislative proposal we are discussing today makes me wonder if this could have been different at the time. Next to the school I was in, there was a little Protestant-Christian school. There were undoubtedly the same challenges, but I do not think there was any cooperation. This may have been a missed opportunity, because it is precisely when small schools work together in an area with few pupils that they can ensure that small-scale education and their own identity is preserved, with due regard for quality. Many schools also want this, especially when there is a fall in pupils in shrinking regions, in outlying areas in the Randstad and in ageing neighbourhoods. To ensure that students can follow the education of their choice close to home, something the VVD considers very important, schools would like to work together by, for example, changing their direction, expanding their direction or moving their school. The current legislation usually makes this unfeasible. The VVD is therefore positive about this bill that meets the wishes of the educational field. In the future, this will not look at re-achievement of the Foundation standard for school administration in the context of transposition and enlargement, but will be based on an application from the Minister. It also makes it easier to move. I would like to put a few clarifying questions to the Secretary of State about how this is going to work today. Can he explain what the Minister's weighting will be in the event of a request to change direction or extend it? Can he confirm that in any case it is well arranged that improper use is avoided by excluding unintentional use of consent? Can the Secretary of State indicate whether there are any guidelines on the basis of which consent is granted? How far does the Minister's discretion extend? What's the expectation? How many additional schools will work together or maybe even merge through this bill? And does that mean anything financially? Will it allow more schools to make use of the six-year compensation for their own funding because they are merged? Can the Secretary of State accept this in the Education budget? I come to my last question. A great deal has already been said by previous speakers about the role of participation. It has not become clear to me from this bill. Perhaps the Secretary of State could explain again how a school should deal with consulting the participation council in the various categories, enlargement, conversion and relocation, before a request is made. Does a different regime apply to different cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a strong and unique education system thanks to its freedom of education. We have a great diversity of schools. Parents can choose the education that corresponds to education and belief. This is valuable, but educational provision may be under pressure due to falling numbers of pupils. The starting point of the legislative proposal is to keep education quality, diversity and accessibility. The Christian Union wholeheartedly supports this approach. However, the Christian Union has a number of questions about the proposal. First of all, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to deal with the coherence between various legislative proposals. In fact, there are four legislative proposals that all concern the maintenance of basic education, and frankly, it does not make it easier to assess its own merits. The explanatory memorandum mentions two proposals by name. The first concerns the proposal on the simplification of the school of cooperation, which my group voted against earlier this year and which is now in the First Chamber. The aim of this bill was also to enable the remaining schools to meet the needs of parents and pupils in the immediate vicinity, with declining numbers of pupils. In addition, the bill for more room for new schools is mentioned. With the bill for more room for new schools, the bill we are discussing today becomes less relevant, as the explanatory statement states, because the concept of direction would then disappear. Not mentioned, but relevant, is the bill Modernisation of provisions planning vo. The draft law proposes to further define the concept of direction in order to avoid erosion. This is at odds with the government's reluctance to determine what a direction is and what is not. We will have that discussion when we deal with this bill, but to what extent does it affect this bill? Can the Secretary of State indicate how these legislative proposals relate to each other? And the more fundamental question: the explanatory statement states that the change of direction or the conversion of a school is only permitted if, according to forecasts, the school meets the foundation standard within a specified period of time. In areas where the number of pupils is falling, it is virtually impossible in practice to transpose, change the direction or move a school. Would it not be wiser, given the decline in pupil numbers and increasing regional differences, to think more fundamentally about the level of foundation and abolition standards rather than stacking up solutions and legislative proposals, one of which makes the other superfluous? The starting point of our system is that parents can opt for education that is in keeping with education and belief. That is why it is so important that school management is much more active in checking whether the school offer is in line with the wishes of the parents. The legislative proposal creates an obligation to consult the grassroots before the participation council exercises its power of assent and advice in relation to closure or merger. However, the bill also makes it easier to convert a school from special to public or vice versa, or to change the basis. Both are far-reaching decisions for a school. For these changes, therefore, the part of the participation council chosen from and by the parents has the right of consent, in accordance with Article 13 (1) (b) of the WMS. The agreement of the parent body of the co-determination council must be in place before the board makes the application. I have tabled an amendment. It has already been mentioned by previous speakers, in order to require consultation of the grassroots even when a school is being converted or when the foundation is changing. This ensures that parents are fully involved and represented from the outset in these far-reaching decisions. I have seen that Mr Kwint has also tabled a sympathetic amendment, which also aims to put parents in a better position. At first he did so through the WPO, but just before the debate I noticed that an amended amendment was tabled whereby he did so through the WMS Act. I think that's very sensible. Indeed, participation should be regulated in the Participation Act. However, he shall deposit the execution with the competent authority. My opinion is that this creates a relationship of dependence and makes participation dependent on the competent authority. I prefer to leave the primacy of participation behind. One can always ask for help, think along and help with it, but please put the primacy into parental participation. That is the difference between Mr Kwint's amendment and my amendment, but I would like to hear how the Secretary of State assesses the various amendments. At the beginning of 2014, the Secretary of State indicated that he was well placed with Mr Voordewind's motion, which stated that schools with a small school allowance were actually required to participate in regional consultations on a future-proof education offer. To this end, the legislative proposal laid down an obligation for school authorities in the municipality to conduct targeted consultations on the future-proofing of educational provision. The Secretary of State now takes over the Council of State's opinion to delete this proposal. I can follow that, because it should not be about an instrument but about the purpose. The Secretary of State states that cooperation has now begun in many regions. I ask the Secretary of State if he can provide further insight into this. The usefulness of joint consultation is clear. That is also the view of the Council of State, and I am sure the Secretary of State will agree with me, but is there any real improvement compared to February 2014? Can the Secretary of State make that more concrete? Schools with a number of pupils under the lifting standard can remain open as the last school of direction if there is no other school of the same direction within a five-mile radius and the school has at least 50 pupils. Can the Secretary of State assure the Chamber that this bill does not alter the position of these schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a relaxation of rules, with the aim of giving schools more opportunities to survive. According to the SP, that's a noble goal. Schools, especially in shrinking regions, maintain a large part of social cohesion, give children a school close by and parents often want to retain their child's school. In the meantime, the explanatory memorandum to this bill has made me very interested in the bill More room for new schools. In that sense, I am very much looking forward to the treatment of that. It will be clear that small sentences such as "the direction of the school will no longer play a role" are very appealing to us. So we are very curious how this will be in the future. In dealing with the present law, I will try to keep all my explanations and hope for a while in relation to that law. So I'm going to go into this law myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	In the explanatory memorandum, I read that it is necessary for school authorities to be much more active in assessing whether the provision of schools meets the wishes of parents and, if necessary, to adapt the direction or concept of their schools. We certainly agreed with that from the SP, but if something is found to be necessary, only an encouragement, as it is further stated in the law, is not really enough; that is very mild. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP? And how does the Secretary of State see it that we continue to match the wishes of parents when the direction of the school is changed? How do we know what the parents want? That is why I have tabled an amendment to which Mr Bruins has already referred. That amendment provides for parental consultation by a school board in the event of a planned conversion or extension of the direction or movement. This will make it possible to examine more actively whether the proposed decision is in line with the wishes of the parents. That way you can properly identify the wishes of the grassroots. In response to Mr Bruins' comment, I would point out that we have indeed made the point of taking this into account in the administration. Quite frankly, that was more of a capacity consideration vis-à-vis the co-determination council than a motion of censure against the co-determination council. I do not think it is extremely difficult where this ends up, even though I can imagine that there may also be conflicting interests in participation. I had seen Mr Bruins' amendment. I decided to table my amendment, also pending the response of the Secretary of State. I believe that we will be able to find a way out of this in the further debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	That raises a question from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	Does Mr Kwint agree with me that, if we see problems of capacity or perhaps even professionalism, we should actually work to strengthen participation? After all, that should be a serious organ in a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	In general, I certainly agree with Mr Bruins that if it is only a capacity problem, you should do something about it. However, because I know the reality of the capacity problems that sometimes exist in the area of participation, I also think that we cannot simply add things to the workload of people without solving that problem. Moreover, I can imagine that the board will involve participation in the implementation of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	Exactly, that was also the background to my argument for putting the primacy into participation. Since there is a right of assent, the management or the management can only involve participation at an early stage and help to implement it in accordance with the wishes of the parent organisation, including in the case of capacity problems. In any case, this will ensure that dependence is moving in the right direction and not the wrong one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	In my view, from a similar analysis, we have drawn exactly the opposite conclusion about the question: is participation involved by the board, or do we leave the primacy of participation and then receive support from the board? I think we'll figure it out. I come to the role of the Minister. The Minister takes a positive view if the Boards have no objection to a school being converted, expanded with a direction or being moved. But, according to the Secretary of State, this does not necessarily mean that the Minister rejects a request if surrounding authorities do express objections. There's only one objection that's gonna be recognized anyway. That is in the case that a decision to move, for example, leads to the abolition or no longer funding of another school. Are there any other grounds for objection, for example if a school would suffer significantly from a possible approval by the Minister? On what basis does the Minister decide? I would like to hear a little more of those criteria. I have looked at whether this could be included in an amendment, but then you will find yourself in such hypothetical situations and conditions that this is rather complicated to put on paper. However, I am very curious to see how the cabinet views this in its legislative role. I'm going into mergers now. This law is based on schools in shrinking areas, but extra room for school boards to add, for example, a secondary location can also lead to scaling up in more densely populated areas. We would find that undesirable. How can this be prevented? A different direction of a school, for example through conversion, can be combined with a school merger or administrative merger. We know that this happens sometimes, thanks, among other things, to the Merger Test Committee on Education, which responded to the Internet consultation under this law. Transposition can actually be meant to achieve a merger. How does the Minister rule out the fact that by first implementing the merger test, which we do not have for nothing, is being bypassed? In conclusion, I have one final point, also from my experience as a city council member in Amsterdam. In the event of voluntary closure of a public school, the board will have a longer chance to report this to the city council. Isn't the pressure on city councils getting so big? If a school reports at the end of December that it is no longer able to keep the doors open, the city council must indicate by 1 February whether it intends to take over the school. That's a little over a month later. In practice, that means the following. If, for example, the city council would like to discuss it in a committee meeting and a plenary session, and at the beginning of January, it would have to be arranged in about one committee meeting and the subsequent plenary session. I can imagine that this would cause problems. It is a very practical question, but I wonder if that point has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. Falling numbers of students may result in schools closing the door, after often years of life between hope and fear. Can we still survive? How are we going to handle this with so few students? Schools will combine year groups and hope for that one family with three children in the village. This is frustrating for teachers and parents, but also for the community as a whole. After all, the school is of great importance for social cohesion in the community. The school is the daily meeting point of parents and teachers. It is precisely in the school that important meetings take place. It happens in the school. With this amendment, the State Secretary takes a number of measures to ensure good and accessible education, especially in the shrinking regions where it is under pressure. It will be made easier to address the legal objections to transposition, extension with a direction or change of direction, transfer across the feeding area, a secondary location with a different direction from the main establishment, division of the lifting standard and prior introduction. That's good. They are all measures that help to maintain education supply, to keep schools open and active, and to keep communities attractive to families, in conjunction with all those involved, especially parents. We can therefore support the legislative proposal. "Well done," we say to the Secretary of State and his officials. This is the second compliment I've given in two days; I really need to stop now. So I also have a critical question for the Secretary of State. Support for school administrators has been created to deal proactively with shrinkage. That's important, because the sooner you signal, the sooner you can anticipate what's coming. This will prevent the agony of hope and fear that I have already described. Regional counsellors initiate cooperation without compromising the autonomy of the administration, says the Secretary of State in the explanatory memorandum. Yeah, hello, that's a good thing. It would be nice if a trial manager did. I think it is an excellent idea that this is happening. There are already about 100 routes on the way, I understand. But in order to clear up any misunderstandings, I ask under whose authority the trial counselor is working. Whose initiative is he going to work on? Are those the relevant governments and municipalities? I'm sure it's already changed somewhere, but I guess that slipped my mind. I ask the Secretary of State to respond to this point. On top of that, there is also an additional support program, independent of the process supervisors, with meetings, a knowledge platform and account managers; "account managers drop in their apprenticeship" they are called in this case. The explanatory memorandum says very dry: cooperation is being worked on along different lines. Isn't that a little too much? Isn't there too much rigged up like everywhere else in the educational province? Are there not too many stakeholders put in place, which will also not improve transparency and simplicity because they are likely to work alongside each other and because there will be a struggle for competence and tribal wars? That's what I'm worried about. I'd like the Secretary of State to reassure me on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal allows for the extension or conversion to another direction under conditions. The CDA also sees that as a result of drop in apprenticeships, a multiform and accessible educational offer may be at risk. The consultation and planning obligation, which encountered a great deal of resistance in schools and the Council of State, was written out of the bill. In the report we raised the question of how to ensure the identity of both directions. The government replied that this will be done mainly because the old section is going to agree to the extension of the new direction. We are talking about preventing the old identity of the school or the new identity from being given serious meaning, leaving you in practice a school with only one direction or where the original direction is to be watered down. How does the Secretary of State intend to prevent this? How does he look at the position of the teacher who originally chose a school of a particular direction and who will soon become the identity bearer of a school that partly or completely changes direction? This bill makes it easier to extend or convert an already existing special school with an extra direction to that other direction. The bill More room for new schools makes sure that the concept of "direction" will no longer play a role in the creation of new schools. Can the Secretary of State comment on that for a moment? The CDA Group looks at the bill with mixed feelings More room for new schools. That is why we would like to know whether the Secretary of State can confirm that the adoption of this bill cannot in any way be regarded as a prelude to the bill More room for new schools, including the concept of direction. Finally, we see that a school can be moved within a particular food area or a certain municipality, but some municipalities have different lifting standards. Can the Secretary of State comment on whether if a school is moved from a rural area to a more urban area of a particular municipality, it may have a problem with the lifting standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes and then we'll start answering the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	We have arrived at the first-term answer. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. There are fewer and fewer children born in the Netherlands and therefore fewer children go to primary school. As a result, the number of small schools is increasing, but the number of schools is declining anyway. In order to ensure that there is a good, diverse and well-accessible education supply, it is important that school management actively engage in this process and face and address the negative consequences of decline. However, if they wish to do so, they face a number of legal obstacles which prevent them from adapting the educational offer to the needs of parents and pupils in the neighbourhood as far as possible. This legislative proposal will make it easier for school authorities and municipalities to realise a future-proof educational offer if there is transposition, extension with a direction or relocation of a school. In fact, this is a rather pragmatic bill that offers a lot of solutions for schools in shrinking areas. I also hear this in the contributions of various groups. In addition, this bill contains a number of other changes that facilitate the realisation of a future-proof education offer. I would like to answer the questions of the Chamber in three blocks. A number of questions have been asked about the coherence of this bill with a number of other legislative proposals, including the Bill More room for new schools, which is currently in the pipeline. In the second block, I would like to go into a little more detail on the proposed amendments on conversion and extension with a direction and on the relocation of schools. Finally, I will answer a number of other questions. I think I'd better get to the bottom of things first. In the present legislative proposal, much attention is paid to the concept of direction and the role it plays in maintaining schools. At the same time, I have announced a number of times that, in my opinion, the concept of direction should no longer play a decisive role in the procedures for starting and maintaining new schools. By the way, this is something that has also been given by the Education Council. To this end, I have announced a legislative proposal, namely the Bill More room for new schools. I intend to introduce a number of new procedures for starting schools in primary and secondary education in which the concept of "direction" has been somewhat loosened. The legislative proposal now before us is aimed at adapting the current procedures, in which direction still plays a major role at the moment. In addition, the present legislative proposal only concerns adjustments to the existing educational offer rather than the start of new schools. The latter will be particularly relevant in the legislative proposal More room for new schools. Mr Rog and Mr Bruins have asked me to speak clearly about the consequences of this bill as a way of getting more room for new schools. Mr. Rog already asked "this isn't an ad vantage to, is it?'. The answer to that is complete: no. Mr Bruins asked if this would change anything in the position of the last school for a direction. The answer to that is also: no. What about the connection with two other legislative proposals which are already before the Chamber? One of them, the bill on cooperation schools, has even passed this Chamber. The other legislative proposal concerns provision planning in secondary education. Both were born of the same necessity, namely the need to cooperate more and to look at planning in a different way. The draft law on cooperation schools is, of course, a bit more fundamental because it is based on cooperation between public education and special education. In my view, this debate was a little more fundamental than the debate we are having today. The other bill is about secondary education. This bill concerns in particular the p.o. Let me now turn to the main changes to the legislative proposal. They are that it becomes easier to convert a school from special to public or vice versa, to change the direction of the school or to move to school. This may be necessary to adapt the educational offer as a result of shrinking, taking into account the wishes of parents and pupils. At present, it must always be demonstrated for these changes that, on the basis of its new direction or location, the school would meet the conditions for being included in the so-called plan of schools. This simply means that the school must be able to present a prognosis that it meets certain statutory foundation standards after amendment. I have just indicated that the areas we are talking about are often those with shrinkage, where a number of pupils are often working under the foundation standard, although there is a stable population for some small schools. It is that particular target group that we are helping with this bill. The legislative proposal makes it possible to allow this type of change in these cases. The extension of the rules is thus complementary to the existing rules. Since there are already a number of exceptions in primary education to the statutory abolition standard which are related to the direction in combination with the place of a school, it is necessary to attach a number of conditions to the extended rules in order to avoid strategic behaviour. Mrs. Becker asked for that. It can't be that a school that comes under the lifting standard at some point will say: oh, then I'll choose a different denomination because then I'll be the last school of direction. That's not what this was for. As at present, the parentage of the participation council must agree to converting a school or changing the direction of a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	For my good understanding, the following. A school that becomes the last school of a direction because it chooses a direction that has not yet been in the municipality, cannot claim the exception last school of a direction. Suppose, however, that there are two schools of one direction and one of them chooses a different direction. Then the one left still becomes the last school of a direction and can he still claim that exception because it becomes the last school of a direction, thanks to the colour of that other school?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yeah, but that probably won't be a school that's under the lifting standard at the time. Perhaps that will be the case in the future. Such a school can of course never be blamed for having shown strategic behaviour, because that school does not really change. You're only dealing with a changed context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	Exactly. I expect the Ministry to keep it up to date so that when the school became that last school of direction by changing its own colour, in 20 years' time it will come under the lifting standard, the Ministry will know that that school has once fallen into colour and cannot claim the exception and that the school that remained because that other school of colour was changing can claim that exception. May I assume that the Ministry has kept that in its databases as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	That's very much to reason in the future. When it comes to the existing school that actually does nothing, nothing changes, even when it comes to the principle of the last school of a direction. When it comes to the other school that makes the change, of course we look at the most direct consequences. Is this a school that makes a change to claim that last school of a direction? In that case, I can imagine that the Minister will not allow it. Of course, it may well be that a school changes once and then something happens ten or twenty years later. I don't know if there's another reason for that at a time like this. When it comes to the principle of "last school of a direction," we leave the criteria untouched. The bill leads to three situations. First of all, there is the situation in which there is at least approval. We are talking about conversion, extension or relocation under the conditions already in force, namely that it must be shown that the school also meets the conditions of foundation with the new direction or place or location. That's one category; that doesn't change that much. The other category is the category in which the conditions under which at least no approval is granted are considered. That is the category of strategic behavior, of those who try to abuse the extension we offer in this bill. The Minister will say no to that. Then there is an intermediate category, the category of which Mrs Becker, Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint have asked how the Minister deals with this. In principle, this bill is intended to give us more room for manoeuvre. So I would be inclined to go along with that unless there are serious reasons not to agree to an application. Then, of course, there is the immediate question of what these serious reasons are. My proposal would also be to look at the practice and learn from what we are being presented with. I can imagine, for example, that a major reason would be that there is a great deal of fuss or opposition from other schools. We shall take a serious look at that. Another serious reason could be that the conversion of a public school could jeopardise the accessibility of public education. It is very difficult to define this in advance in criteria, because we do not yet know exactly what is coming to us. The risk of preparing all kinds of criteria in advance is that you immediately formalize and judge and thereby capture the space you create.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. This was precisely the problem we encountered when we thought about a possible amendment to record it. Can the Court, some time after the adoption of the law, be informed, for example by means of a letter, if a similar case has occurred several times, so that it can have some insight into the balancing framework once the law has entered into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	Maybe I can make a very practical proposal. I'll send the Chamber an annual or biannual review with everything that happens around shrinking. I am not surprised at all that, when this bill comes into force, I shall give the Chamber an annual indication of what applications we have received and how we have dealt with them. Perhaps, in a manner of speaking, this is a kind of case law on the basis of which, over time, we can draw up some criteria to avoid arbitrariness. Mrs Westerveld asked for that. That's how we keep the finger on the wrist and see what happens. Mrs Westerveld also asked: how do we ensure that there is sufficient public education? In any case, this legislative proposal does not alter the responsibility of municipalities to ensure adequate public education. We also see that the share of public education has been fairly stable over the last ten years: around 30%. The municipality can also assume responsibility for public education because it is always involved in a decision on the transposition of a public school. Public education is always governed by the principle of dominant influence of the government; hence this role. Finally, a public school should not be closed if there is no other school within 10 kilometres where public education is provided. This criterion may affect the conversion of a school, which means that this possibility is limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	That raises a question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	We are particularly curious about the expectation. Is it now the expectation that more public schools will be added? Or are there going to be more special schools?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	I do not have the impression that it is going one way or the other, also because it does not express a preference and because it is not made more difficult or easier for public education than for special education. Mr Rog asked a question about the transfer of schools to municipalities or parts of municipalities where a higher abolition standard applies. In any case, when moving schools, there is always a need for the consent of all parties. In doing so, it is unlikely that a move will be made to a part of a municipality where a higher lifting standard applies. That would also go a bit against the intuition. You want to ensure a good distribution of education. That is precisely what this contributes to. He also asked how to do justice to the identity of a school if you extend the direction of that school. In any event, in consultation with the MR, it will be necessary to determine how this will be included in the statutes and how it will be properly implemented and coloured. I shall say a few words about this later when it comes to changing colors and the consequences for the staff. Mrs Becker asked how the MR is involved in several of these steps and what the rational behind them is. I'll go through the steps briefly. When changing the basis, the right of consent of the parent body in the participation council shall apply. When it comes to the possible consequences for recruitment and dismissal policies, including staff, the consent of the entire MR applies. Then this right applies not only to the parent but also to the employee. This is due to a discussion that took place before at the WMS, where it is rational that when it comes to changing the basis, the school is mainly of the parents. They should therefore have the most far-reaching participation. As far as the staff implications are concerned, staff are of course also involved. I think this is also an answer to Mr Rog's question. When the school is moved, the entire co-determination council has an advisory right. This has to do with the fact that there are often many business issues involved in relocation, about the organisation of the school, about housing and everything that has to do with it. I will deal with this shortly when I discuss the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	I should like to comment briefly on the relocation and the lifting standard. This standard may differ in some municipalities. The Secretary of State says it does not seem likely to him, and I think I agree with him, but I could just imagine a fictional situation where a school ends up in a assembly building in a more urban area with a higher lifting standard. Wouldn't it be useful in such a situation if the school could use that old, lower lifting standard longer? Or should we perhaps not make another arrangement for this in any other way? I'm just sitting there brooding on it. Although it may not immediately seem the most logical consequence, I can imagine that this could pose a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	In that sense, I think it would be a rather opposite move, because that school would then move out of the area in which you would like to see a school continue to exist, namely in the more thinly populated area. If you give schools the opportunity to move more to the city and offer certain exceptions, then you have to watch out for the unintended consequences that that can have. It is perhaps more attractive to sit with the security of the sparsely populated area in an area where you might automatically expect more growth. I think the risk of undesirable effects will be too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	The Secretary of State has a point. On the other hand, it is precisely by maintaining a multiform offer that a construction such as within a assembly building could be a solution for moving to the more urban area. Can't the Secretary of State reflect on that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	In principle, the idea of a kind of assembly building or a kind of broad school building in which you house several functions, especially in shrinking areas, is a solution. The challenge for me would be to see whether this could be done not only in the urban area but also in the less populated area. Let me give you an example. If you are dealing with two schools that merge and that come under one roof with the two of them, for example a GD function, youth health care, and a childcare organisation, then a number of fixed costs and charges can be shared. I would prefer to see that, so to speak, in a more thinly populated area. This allows you to retain an important public function in the smaller village center instead of making it too easy for these schools to switch to the city. I see Mr Rog's point, but I think that the risk of making exceptions of this kind is much greater and that it leads to a move rather than the maintenance of a good distribution. Mr Bruins asked whether we should not take a more fundamental look at the lifting standards. My answer to that is: yes, but not at the moment. I would do that in conjunction with the funding standards. If you bring down the lifting standards and the foundation standards, you have to be careful that it does not lead to a huge explosion of a lot of small schools, which are relatively expensive and therefore very much pressure on the total cost of education. Then we're going to invest more in rocks than in children. So you have to build in another incentive for schools so that it doesn't become too attractive to be very small. That other incentive is in the financial financing after all. In the letter on more room for new schools, we also made a number of proposals. We have said: if you want to get to more opportunities for new schools to be founded and the maintenance of schools, you should first see what you can do to make the founding a little more direction-free. That's gonna open things up a little bit. I think we could discuss this at some point. If you do, you can then see if you can do something about the lifting and foundation standards in relation to the funding standards. That's a step further. The advantage of the step-by-step action is that you can always keep a finger on the wrist and see the effect of those small changes in the total palette of schools. What you don't want is that you either have a huge expansion of small schools or shut the place down completely. This is step by step policy making instead of some kind of bigbang scenario. In the context of these three measures, Mr Kwint asked about public education and the possibility for a municipality to take back the school. This faster closure is an option if everyone agrees. Moreover, I think that if something like this occurs in practice, it is always announced before the formal application is made. In any case, the bill offers the possibility of doing it faster. But if the city council needs more time and therefore does not agree, it simply takes more time. This democratic process is also important. Two amendments have been tabled on the role of participation and parents. In the Bruins amendment to item No. 8 is that role when changing the basis. In the amended Quint amendment, too, in part No. 10 is about the role in changing the foundation, but also when moving the school. The Bruins amendment provides for mandatory consultation of the grassroots in the transposition of a school or change of the basis. I share the premise that it is important for parents to be involved in important decisions at school, for example the change of the basis. I think that is sufficiently guaranteed now. A school is free to make additional agreements on legislation and regulations when drawing up the co-determination rules. The current law requires mandatory grassroots consultation only when changing school hours. This has a major impact on the daily rhythm and organisation of parents. For this purpose, the grassroots should be consulted on a form-free basis. With this bill, we are extending it to mergers. I hesitate to stretch that a little further and say: we are going to do that when we are changing colors. I think that is a slightly less far-reaching step than a merger. Before you know it, you're putting up the Christmas tree and you're obliging the parenting thing in a mr to consult the grassroots in everything she does. It's a matter of course: where do you draw the line? I would prefer the current bill. Mr Bruins has just gone a step further. Let us first look at how this works before we start to prescribe it across the board.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	I appreciate the seeker's tone in the State Secretary's contribution. If we consult parents about mergers and school hours, then I would not count the school's foundation as the raison d'être of the Christmas tree. The basis of the school is so tremendously the basis of which the school assumes, that I would very much appreciate it if we said: this is obvious, we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	Given Mr Bruins' political colour, I can very well follow that. You will also notice the hesitation in my speech. I will not say that I am fundamentally opposed to this, but I think we should be careful. On a larger scale, we sometimes have the discussion here about referenda and that sort of thing. A well-functioning mr should also be able to assume that the parent yellowing can always make the sound of parents hear, without having to hold a member consultation every once in a while. The explicit question of the Chamber was to increase the role of parents in mergers. That is what we have done with this proposal. I would not be immediately in favour of this, but it is, for my part, less fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	I don't know. It's "every other thing" bothers me a little bit. I really think that the foundation of the school is so fundamental that a change of it occurs once in the school's existence. This does not happen every year, not every five years or every ten years. It is really a one-time thing, and we do not get a whole system of referenda for that. I just wanted to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	I'm not going to argue about this: point tasks. We're both in something else. But if things work out differently, the world doesn't end, I'll just say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	And then there is your assessment of this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	I would personally advise against it. Slightly dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	That's a new setup. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Kwint's amendment goes one step further and expands it a bit. I'm a little heavier in this, and that has to do with the fact that the relocation of a school also has housing consequences. That is so much to the board and to the authority of a school board that I think it is a little far-reaching to prescribe a membership consultation on this too. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. The other point I believe is not a point of principle for Mr Kwint. In both cases it is form-free. Mr Bruins already states that it is free of form, just as it is free of form in the other parts of the law. Mr Kwint himself also said that this is not a matter of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	The Secretary of State has just said that a member consultation is legitimate when it comes to the organisation of teaching hours, given the impact of teaching times on parents' lives. I imagine that moving a school has a similar impact. If a school suddenly falls five miles away, it can have serious consequences for the children. That logic, would it not be justified to include the relocation of a school in the issues to be put before the grassroots?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	This is the sliding scale I was afraid of. Maybe that's where my slight slipper came from, that 'for goodness sake', which Mr Bruins rightly said: don't use that word. The point is: it is a sliding scale. A parent body elected to a co-determination council always represents the parents in any case. Where are you gonna stop? In addition, there is a lot to be seen in the decision to move. What does that mean for your household, for your fixed expenses, for your building? In reply to Mr Bruins, you can say that you are for or against changing your school. But when you move from a school, there's so much to look at whatever has an effect on your budget, on your staff and on your business, that I find it very complicated to do so in a general question instead of just taking the parenting thing into the mr's budget and into all the nuances that come with such a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	I could now move on to two different points, namely the sliding scale or the consultation. I actually agree with what Mr Bruins said. Even if you add up all the possible consultations, fusion, abolition, relocation, change in the hours of classes, there is only one consultation in the very many years. A school doesn't move immediately after a merger, then change the class times and then cancel itself within five years. In that sense, does the Secretary of State share with me that the number of times it will occur is still quite feasible even with those four possible grassroots consultations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr Kwint is right when he says that a school does not move very often, but I do think there are four or five other decisions that you can easily follow. Before you know it, we have had a debate in the Chamber not about increasing the number of members' referrals in mergers, but about increasing the number of members' referrals in mergers and a whole lot of other things. That's the consequence if you take that step. Secondly, and I think that is a real difference from what Mr Bruins is proposing, it is a fundamental change of colour. You can be against it or against it, but the consequences for your school aren't so complex. It's a move like that. Then you have to deal with such a company collection building and also consult with the municipality. This is more difficult to submit to parents in a membership consultation. In fact, I think it is more important that the parent-grooming is involved in the mr, that it is involved in all these details and nuances, than that it is presented in a kind of referendum. That is perhaps the most serious reason why I am somewhat more dissuaded from this amendment. I shall now turn to the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	In my speech, I asked what exactly is such a grassroots consultation. I just heard the word "referendum." What exactly happens during a grassroots consultation and what is its legal status?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	That's right. The law does not lay down any formal requirements for this. It merely states that there must be a grassroots consultation. Whether organized by the competent authority, by the parent body in the mr or by the entire mr and how you do that, this law doesn't say anything about that. In itself, I'm fine with that, because it leaves you schools and Mrs the room to make a decision on your own. It must be a member's consultation. How exactly that happens is up to them. A number of other questions have been asked. One of them is about the consultations in the region. Mr Bruins asked for this, also in relation to the Voordewind motion, which was adopted at the time, which was about agreement-oriented consultations in the shrinking regions. At first, I was very much in favour of this. In fact, when it appeared that "shrinking region" was a geographically complex unit, where exactly are you going to draw the boundaries? We even looked at whether we couldn't build that wider. A number of objections were raised by the Council of State. That's when we went to see what's going on in practice. You can actually see that these talks between administrations in the regions, especially in the shrinking regions, have started very well in many places. Something has really changed since that Voordewind motion or since the beginning of this cabinet period, when it has been really heavily engaged by the Education Council and myself. The question then is whether an obligation adds much more. There are certainly areas of concern that I am concerned about, where the consultation has not yet started. This is often in boards that do not want to cooperate sufficiently with each other or males and females that are unable to sit in a room with each other. Then such a consultation becomes a bit of a must and you may wonder if that is really constructive and a lot of good. A combination of that and all the legal objections made us decide to leave it alone now. There is a lot going on around that to encourage and bring schools together. This has led to much more consultation in these regions. It has even led to a much greater awareness of the fact that schools have a problem. Four years ago, a lot of people were still looking in the spotlight and thinking: well, demographic developments, maybe it'll pass. If we can predict something, it's demographic developments. You look at how many children are born there and then you know about what's going to happen as elementary school. We have really made a lot of meters in that. The trial counsellors are requested by at least two school boards and at least two municipalities. They work formally in their mission. Mr Bertema asked about his formal authority. I think that such a trial counselor should have it mostly from his informal authority, that it should be someone who hangs over the parties, who has convening power and sometimes has some heads against each other and can say: boys, we should sometimes also step over our own shadow in the interests of parents and children and of good education in the regions. It works in a lot of places. It is sometimes difficult, but I find it incredibly tough that there are schools in cooperation schools, sometimes special and public education together, actually doing things they might not have done ten years ago but they are doing now for the preservation of education in these areas. Mr Kwint and Mr Van Meenen both asked about the merger test. First of all, Mr Kwint's narrow question: can schools use this bill to bypass the merger test? Not in my eyes. The broader question was: what is the role of the merger test at all if schools are obliged to take so many interests in a merger? The interests of the school itself can all be well protected, but a school does not always take into account the variation in the educational offer; then you talk more about system responsibility. That would still be considered in a merger review procedure. I do believe, however, that the current merger test is far too stringent. Especially in primary and secondary education, he should be much wider. The House received a proposal for this some time ago. We are very busy at the moment in order to carry out the enlargement. Mrs Westerveld asked about the constant revision of the founding and lifting standards. She asked whether it would not be more logical to take the five-year deadline to three years. I wouldn't be for that. There is always a search for a good balance between adjustment and a certain stability. If the standards are adjusted every three years, it will give less rest. In addition, different exceptions to the lifting standard are possible. A lot of schools and administrations are already using them. Nearly 13% of schools are already de facto below the abolition standard but can nevertheless continue to exist. Finally. Ms Becker asked about the financial impact and impact of this bill. Because it concerns existing schools that have more opportunities, I do not expect any significant financial impact immediately. It's not about the opportunity to set up a lot of new schools. It will be nice to avoid that a school can stay open a little longer and thus also get a longer foothold. It may also very well be that a school will be able to stay together a bit earlier or a little longer, thus avoiding such a small supplement. I suspect that those two opposite effects will cost some money, the other will bring some money to balance with each other on...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply, but something has slipped his mind. As far as the trial counselors are concerned, it's clear to me now. They have an informal position, and that is what they must have. Very good things happen there. But I read that there is also another support program, with meetings, a knowledge platform and account managers drop students. Are they all working from the same formal position or are they complementary to each other? My concern was a little bit: is it not getting too crowded in the shrinking regions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	No, I don't think so. Those are also two things that run apart from each other but interlock. The account managers are in fact civil servants who have a regional function. They assist schools and school boards with a lot of information questions. For example, a school wants to know how the student projections in its own area develop or how such a complicated law as we are discussing today will work out in practice. They can help a lot with that. I can tell by many school boards that this help is very much appreciated. Such a trial counselor will do something on behalf of the schools and the municipalities. This is often necessary in the recasting of the school offerings. Tell me you have five village centers with 15 schools. We all know that there will soon be only room for eight schools of some good size. Then it's a huge task for each school individually to do something about it. You need each other to be able to say, okay, I'm closing the school. Or... we're gonna merge together. Or: how do we ensure public education and special education? To do that, you often need someone hanging over the parties. Someone who hangs over the boards and sometimes over the municipality, because sometimes some things will have to be pushed over the municipal boundaries. Then it makes sense to hire such a heavier trial counselor. In any case, we offer the possibility to do so on request. It's two different things, though. Such a process supervisor will always ask the account managers "what is the information?', "How does the legislation work?', et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	It's obvious, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. Mr Van Meenen waived a second term, as did Mrs Westerveld and Mrs Becker. Mr Bruins does need a second term. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his comprehensive and very clear answer to the questions I have asked. We had an interesting debate on the amendments with which we may or may not use the Christmas tree and whether or not it is a sliding scale. I would like to add that at the moment a merger, a closure or a change of colour requires a right of consent from the participation or part of it, while the transfer of a school right from the participation council requires a right of advice under Article 11 (1) (f), I say out of my mind. The framework in the WMS on consent law and advisory law already indicates which elements are of crucial and fundamental importance. If my amendment is to be adopted, we will not go along with it on a sliding scale, but we will actually confirm what is already considered fundamental by the legislator with the right to consent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	Thank you. Mr Kwint does not need a second term, neither does Mr Beertema, nor does Mr Rog. Does the Secretary of State still need to respond to Mr Bruins' contribution? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	That could be very good. Then we'll do it completely for the Acts. The difference between consent and advice is not only about how important something is, so that consent is always more important for parents than advice, but it is also about roles and powers. It is also about participation versus control. The difference between coloring and shifting is that the last thing I said to Mr Kwint earlier is that there are so many things that also affect the school's direct administration and organisation and finances that parents' consent would be too difficult. That too, to complete the picture, is one of the reasons. But Mr Bruins is right, as far as my judgment is concerned, there is also the gravity of the distress: the difference between one and the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his presence and contribution to this debate. I thank the Members of Parliament for their input into this debate and I thank those present in the gallery and those who have followed this debate in a different way for their interest. The votes on the two amendments and the legislative proposal will take place next Tuesday.
