ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and give Mrs Van Toorenburg the floor on behalf of the CDA as the first speaker. The speaking time is four minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Trade in Truth report, which is finally on the agenda today, is not lying. Once again, it shows that the detection in the Netherlands is not doing very well and that much needs to be improved. Fortunately we are already a very long time ahead and the cow is caught by the horns, but it is important to talk about it, because we would like to keep our finger on the wrist. We cannot afford a break, because criminals continue to do so. We see from the report that investment will have to be made. No doubt we are not having that debate today, but it is important to bear this in mind. Of course, it's about a lot more than just money. We would like to hear from the Minister today whether he can indicate what is happening at the moment. What is the state of implementation of the improvement plans? In fact, we read that there is an inability to make improvements in the organisation, given working practice and culture. And then, of course, it's extra important to keep the finger on the wrist. Can we know what is actually going on here? Then we have a number of specific points, such as Internet crime. We heard the Chief Constable talking about it again last Sunday. He says there's a real blow to be made. This is also the subject of the CDA's own-initiative paper. Our question is: what will become visible in 2017 in the short term? We have called for close attention to be paid to the working conditions of the detectives. You can't imagine it, but these people sometimes actually stand in a copy room for three days to copy files and then physically take them to court. In another court, things have to be different. It can't go on like this. The Minister has promised that he would talk to the CID to see how real steps can be taken. I'm actually curious if that conversation has taken place by now. I come to a very serious point for the CDA: the serious and undermining crime in the south of the country. It's really gone the wrong way there. I understand the Minister made a round there this week. What did he notice? What's he gonna put his teeth in in the next few days? The mayors, of course, want undermining to be given a serious place in the coming cabinet period. We are not talking about that here, but it is important to have it marked. There are three things that we would like to focus on. First of all, the necessary information sharing. I assume that the Minister has also heard that people in Tilburg have been beaten, because there is no more information to be shared. The chief of police said last Sunday that the whole approach in Brabant is about sharing information. What can the minister say to the mayor? How do we ensure that it is done carefully on the one hand and that information can be shared on the other? Then there's the current mess of drug dumping. Forest rangers ring the bell. In my round in Brabant before the elections I have been in many places and I have talked a lot with forest rangers, with State Forestry, with Brabant's Landscape about the problems of the outskirts. They say it's really weird. Some areas have camera surveillance. If something has happened very visibly and such a case is brought to justice, then these images should not be used, because the camera was aimed at bats and not at people who are destroying our entire drinking water area. That's weird. I don't think it's legal either. I'd like to hear from the Minister what he has to offer those rangers and the Brabants Landscape. Finally, Fort Orange. I've been allowed to visit this megalomaniac neighborhood in Brabant, where things are really getting out of hand. The mayors have repeatedly asked for tools to solve it. At first, the cabinet seemed to have the idea that it would go on its own and that there were sufficient instruments for it. I understand from the Minister for Social Affairs that this is not the case. I'd like to hear from this minister what he has to offer the mayors in Brabant. Mr President, I am learning: my seconds are up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u3	Yes, you stayed exactly within the agreed time, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I think it's very handsome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr. Chairman. I congratulated you yesterday on your new term as President of this beautiful Chamber, but I would like to do that again from the Chair. I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome some colleagues from the previous period back to this committee. I'm glad to see familiar faces back here. But I also see some new faces. The Committee on Security and Justice is a fine committee. I wish everyone good luck in this period. I come to the content of today's debate. In 2015, the previous Minister of Justice commissioned a fundamental improvement in the quality of detection. To determine a starting point, a so-called strength-weakness analysis has been performed. The result of this is the report entitled: Acting truthfully. This report is the subject of today's debate. The conclusions in the report are not good, diplomatically speaking. Let me mention the main problems. There is insufficient skill, inefficient equipment or resources, and the police organisation cannot adapt sufficiently to innovation. The bottom line is that a huge catch-up has to be made on the issue of quality, both in the human and in the material sense. Fortunately, the police organisation itself recognises this and already proposes a number of measures. During the period up to 2018, 700 specialists will have to influx. The initial knowledge of the current detectives needs to be enhanced. And a link must be established between the computer systems used. It all sounds nice, but the public doesn't understand much of that official language. The citizens want declarations to be recorded, and the chances of getting caught and the clearance rate to go up. This requires adequate and high-quality detection, but also an adequate and high-quality detection capacity. In other words, enough money is needed and enough people are needed who are fit for the job. As far as my group is concerned, the measures taken are a starting point, but they are no more than that. The chief of police recently mentioned, in an interview following the fact that he has been chief of police for one year, the following goal. He wants a police force "that's ready for the new world and where cops who have holy fire in them" I totally agree with him. But is this also realistic, given the facts? Unfortunately, we all know by now that when such people are found, the police hardly manage to keep them inboard. The culture within the police organisation is once again mentioned as one of the causes of the departure of the professionals. This point was also mentioned by the Posthumus Committee ten years ago. And Mr. Princen also described this in his book The Caged CID. Moreover, many conversations I have had and the literature show that detection has too little capacity for change in order to meet the current and future challenges as an organisation. That is why I ask the Minister: on what basis should I now have the confidence that it will suddenly succeed? Culture and change are things that are not easy to bend. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. The desired changes imposed from above, top-down, are generally not successful. In this context, I do not understand the creation of a separate portfolio for diversity policy. If you're looking for agents who have "the holy fire" in them, willn't that be the people who call themselves in? If that road is taken, I would like to see the police for once say that police officers who support the PVV idea have nothing to do with the police. Of course, this is not a point for the Minister, but I would not stand in the way of him reflecting on this point. Finally, I would like to make a comment on the necessary finances. According to Mr Heijsman, portfolio holder Search, every year 'hundreds of millions more are needed to pull the search out of the valley'. I ask the Minister if the police can face that money, despite the Minister's missionary status. I would prefer to see the police get that money in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Chairman. A small year ago, the report Handelen gave a critical insight into the detection in the Netherlands. The summary is: a lot of work, too few people and bad ICT. An internal discussion paper from the police and the prosecution has also recently shown that much improvement is needed in the investigation and prosecution. There was the summary that the difference between actual and registered crimes is no less than 3.5 million. The follow-up and thus the pakkans are too low, the number of declarations is minimal and the claim that the Netherlands has become safer cannot be sufficiently substantiated. In 2012 the reorganisation of the police started with a lot of VVD-kabaal. D66 had two major criticisms at the time. The first was the pinching combination of quick reorganisation and austerity and the second was the over-removal of local control. That criticism has not been found to be unjustified. Chief of Staff Akerboom indicated last Sunday in Buitenhof that the centralisation has gone crazy on some points. He said valuable things there about diversity and cultural change in the police. As the report points out, we ask a lot of the police. The relationship between politics and the police is not always easy when it comes to expectations of, for example, the capacity available, but also when it comes to policy restraint in relation to the police organisation. However, let us not forget that there is also a lot going well. There is reason to be proud of the Dutch search. Anyway, appreciation is in place for all men and women who work hard every day to ensure our safety. But in the rapidly changing society, the police work is of course changing. New challenges such as counter-terrorism, cybercrime or incidental events, such as the MH17 disaster, are pressing capacity. The report reveals the concerns in this area, but above all shows a clear need for professionalisation of the police. This need has been known for many years, but has been put in place with the reorganisation in conjunction with the cuts. D66 is positive about the way Chief Akerboom is now tackling this professionalisation battle, for example when it comes to ethnicity, age, gender and educational attainment. Can the Minister explain what changes have been taking place since the report we are discussing today came out last year? What has the Cabinet done with this report in the past year? I also have some more specific questions regarding the report we are discussing today. First of all, the lack of capacity. It has once again proved that this is actually an important cause of the difficult process of detection and prosecution. Previously, in this Chamber, there were doubts about the 49.802 FTE standard in the police. The question is whether some flexibility is desirable here in order to cope with the lack of capacity. How does the Minister feel about that? Is he talking to the department about this? Secondly, ICT renewal was still 30% behind the police a year ago. That's something that directly impedes police work on the street, behind the desk and in the search. There is also a limited follow-up of the cyber declarations. The reports people make of cybercrime or identity fraud rarely get a sequel. My question to the Minister is to what extent these delays have been made. I can finish my speech first, Mr President. What can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u6	When you're almost done, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u7	Thirdly and finally, the Chief Constable indicated that he wanted to use the future outflow to change the police organisation from an MBO to an HBO organization. D66 believes that a good commitment when it comes to more professionalization and specialist knowledge in detectives. However, it is important that sufficient new growth is available. It is precisely the outflow of the number of HBOs, the so-called side-intromers, that is very high. So how are we going to get more HBOs inside the police organization, get them and hold them? How much has the Police Academy been set up on that? How many training places are available and are they used?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u8	I'll come back to the capacity. Mr Verhoeven mentioned 49,500 FTE. This includes the 4,500 aspirants. They are fully counted, while they can only be used for 40% because they are still in training. Does Mr Verhoeven and my group, and Mr Kooiman, have been saying this for a long time now, consider that aspirants should no longer be included in the 49 500 FTE?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u9	Pooh, you're asking me about that. I do not know exactly what we have said about this in the past. But it's not a point I want to be very secretive about right now, so maybe we can agree to check and give it back to Mrs Helder and all the other colleagues in second place. I see that Mr Van Raak wants to help me with an interruption in which he can tell me what we have said in the past. At least I can figure it out myself. We have a position on this, and I shall do so without any hesitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u10	Then you'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u11	I think that the list of questions put by Mr Verhoeven is quite right. CDA, SP and D66 have often been raised here together to get more money for the police. We even fought a good deal with the cabinet in the budget to get more money. I suspect that the Minister's answer to all of D66's questions will be that it will all be possible if there is more money. Negotiations are now under way and will last for months. Almost all the electoral programmes of the parties sitting in the Chamber state that they want to invest more in the police. Maybe we can do business today. The cabinet is, of course, outgoing, but the Chamber is not. Can we not send the Minister to work today with all the questions asked by Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u12	That is an interesting question. It is always a good thing that when the SP comes up with initiatives and has expectations, which it contains, for example, in a motion, to provoke a Chamber speech. You can always do that. I think almost all parties in their election program have a plus in the spending on police and, to expand it, Defense. A sore point that I have often talked about is the grey area between the Defense Department and the police, the Royal Marechaussee. I therefore believe that much can be discussed in this debate. Motions submitted by the SP will certainly be discussed with the D66 Group. We always do that with great pleasure and pleasure. We shall be voting on that on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u13	I think of it as a hand-off. Thanks for that. We'll get to work soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u14	Whether it is a hand-out must of course be shown in the votes. Then we may or may not put our hands in the air. We are going to see that, but there is little to hide; we are very open about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u15	Mr. Chairman. If you become a victim of a crime, you want the unsub to be tracked down and punished. The establishment of the national police has brought up overdue maintenance in many areas, including the search. Many reports have been published in recent years which show that the quality of the current detection is not sufficiently in order. CID is not good enough to track down the crime of the future, including cybercrime but also organised crime. We're gonna need a catch-up. A month ago, we discussed this extensively in a debate on the fight against crime. Widely worn is the need to increase the clearing rates. All parties also agree on the willingness to make a declaration: it needs to be raised. The problem analysis is clear, now the solutions. Part of the solution is money. Higher-educated detectives and better detection techniques cost money. This is currently being discussed at the formation table. We cannot say anything about this in today's debate. Today, however, we can say something about the issues that have already been put in motion in order to strike a quality mark in the search process. I call it strengthening the craftsmanship and knowledge and skill of today's detectives. I call it the recruitment of new, highly trained specialists, but also the establishment of regional cyber teams. I'm asking the Minister how this is going. How's college for those sitting detectives? How does the recruitment process of highly skilled side-intromers proceed? And what are the first experiences with the established regional cyber teams? Could the Minister also say something about how the changes that have already been introduced in the police force are being experienced? Of course, it is important that there is support for this change within the search country, which is urgently needed. I now come to a number of loose ends. The first concerns flexibility. The VVD agrees with the improvements that have already been made: more highly educated, better cyber-search work, but also more flexibility, both for the police in general and certainly for the organisation of the police. More flexibility and broader job descriptions can help to react faster and more focused and bring people with the right background and knowledge and skills together. How is this already being put into practice? The next point is information sharing. We all know that effective detection does not always lead to prosecution, but can lead to other interventions. Think of the approach of undermining in the South of the Netherlands, which is starting to bear fruit. Effective detection is based on information sharing. I have asked the Cabinet to work on better sharing of information between the different authorities. The VVD believes that the bulkheads that currently exist should be removed. Sharing information should no longer be an obstacle in the practice of detection. At the request of the VVD, a bill is in preparation to give special investigation services, as well as the Royal Marechaussee, the possibility to exercise independent investigative powers. When is this bill coming? The next item is the revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure. That review is currently taking place. It's necessary, but it's a huge job. This review also affects detection in many areas. How do you prosecute criminals? And by what procedures? That's what the Code of Criminal Procedure is about. I would like to know from the Minister how he is going to ensure that this review will not lead to more administrative pressure on the police or to restrictions on certain powers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u16	I think that is a very nice question from Mr Tellegen. But my group has already tabled a motion on this. It calls on the government to ensure that the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure does not delay everything that Mr Tellegen asks of the national police. Who will vote against it? The VVD. I think that's very special. I'd like to take the motion off the stand and then file it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yes, please. At least I would like to see the motion again, because I do not have the exact content in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u18	I shall then pass the motion internally. Maybe I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u19	Fine. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u20	Finally, I come to integrity. Back in the day, a detective had to be good at chasing and tracking down a criminal. Now a detective has to be good with data. The police are increasingly becoming an information factory with large amounts of data. Integrity and awareness in dealing with data is a very important theme. How will this be addressed in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u21	I now give the floor to Mrs Özütok. It's her maiden speech. It is customary in this house that a maiden speech is not interrupted. I'll suspend you right after your speech for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. I realize how great it is to be standing here, especially when I realize that not descent but my contribution to society dictates that I may stand here as a representative of the people. I'm grateful for that. We all know examples where this is not self-evident. Often things that go wrong are easier to describe than things that go well. This often leads to unspoken appreciation of the work. That is why I propose that every policeman's and policewoman's passionate commitment should count on the great appreciation of GroenLinks. They are the first point of contact for every citizen if problems do not resolve themselves. They are even the only ones allowed to use force if necessary. That's how it works in our democratic justice system. I'm proud of that. This will enable us to live together safely and peacefully. However, the police do not always receive the public and political support it deserves. The police-cao has been heavily fought and in recent years it was mainly the opposition that had to enforce sufficient budget. Many police stations were closed, reducing visibility and accessibility for citizens. In addition, the radical reorganisation caused a heavy shift on police personnel. It is to the credit of the police and the Public Prosecutor that they themselves started the investigation that we are debating today. It takes courage to be vulnerable and to explore where to do better. The results are not surprising for those who have followed the news about the police in recent years. Despite the highly valued, passionate commitment of district agents, detectives and executives can and should be better searched, both in daily practice and in the direction and leadership. I can imagine that the national police want peace in the tent and that the emphasis is on strengthening their ability to change. However, the basis must be in order. Politics must enable the police to do the job. It should facilitate the police with sufficient staff and equipment. My question is how the Minister supports this. Not so long ago, Chief Constable Akerboom said that if we continue along the same road, about 3,000 police formations would be dismissed. That's a big deal. The strength-weakness analysis reveals issues that need to be resolved quickly. The quality of detection needs to be improved as a matter of urgency. Too many criminal cases are delayed by incorrect trial-verbals. The number of detectives and the quality of detectives must also be increased. Then there is the diversity policy. The chief of police has already put it: it must not be a matter of solemn promises, but really lead to a police organization that can reflect on society. The police must have sufficient financial space to keep the human strength in order. My question is therefore: how is the Minister going to do all this? And should we not even look critically at automatism to call on the police for every social problem? A fight on the school square today, for example, is a reason for a Stop or a Halt reaction. We should not want to do that, because young people will soon get into judicial registration, with all the consequences. Finally, I intend to check the Minister not only on the basis of the documents. I would like to see how police professionals deal with major issues, such as cybercrime, organised crime and domestic violence. I will draw attention to this in the coming period. I am convinced that in this way we can best contribute from the Chamber to the wishes and needs of the citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u23	I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. I get to do that first. I shall now suspend the sitting for the congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr. Chairman. In the AD I saw an article this morning about more blue on the street at the Binnenhof. When I read the article, it turned out to be about the suits of the men in politics. I would like to begin by warmly congratulating the Minister on his spring tie. However, I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Özütok on her maiden speech. You're not really a MP until you've been standing here. Mrs Özütok knows the feeling. I hope to have wonderful discussions with her, and I particularly hope that in the coming years we will be able to strengthen the position of police officers with her. Go, go, go, go, go, go! That's what it takes. Today we are discussing a staggering report on detectives, where there is too little quality, too little money for ICT, detection remains, cybercrime and fraud are not adequately dealt with, there is a large underemployment and training is not in order. We also got another report this morning, which shows that the problems are not just in the search, but in the whole chain. This is a report by the Emster Commission of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the national police and the judiciary, which identifies structural bottlenecks. Too many felonies don't lead to arresting suspects. Too many declarations remain unclear as to what happens to them. Too many criminal cases take much longer than necessary or are not dealt with at all. Yesterday there was also other news. That had everything to do with the national police. Five years ago, we got the national police. Since then, I haven't been a spokesperson for the police, but now it's me again. That is a great honour, but I must say that very little has changed for the better since then. After five years, as a spokesperson, I have to deal with exactly the same problems, which have only deepened. These are problems that the national police should have solved. Culture change would be a very important issue within the national police. You can see in all these reports that problems are not recognized and are not resolved. People who bring problems out are often miserable. The fact that this cultural change has not taken place is also reflected in the fact that 24 policemen earn more than the minister and that this is rising. Mr Akerboom, the Chief Constable, sets a good example by being far below that. But how is it possible that that same cabal of managers, which we would have liked to abolish when we started organizing the national police, is still in the national police force and is getting generous incomes there? Mr Welten will receive €267 000. The Weltens of this world should have disappeared with the arrival of the national police. Why are these people still active here and are they getting such unheard of incomes? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that no one gets more than the Minister or Chief Constable Akerboom at the top of the police force? The problems in the CID have also been known for a long time. My colleague and predecessor Mrs Kooiman presented a report two years ago on an investigation involving more than 1,700 agents. 81 said there's a huge lack of manpower in the CID and that cases remain. People from Amsterdam told us that they drown in the work and that liquidation cases also remain. Those things have been known for a very long time. In 2015, the SP together with the CDA and D66 filed a number of motions to deal with this, but it never happened. When I look at the election programmes, I see that all major political parties want to invest heavily in the police. With the SP, that's 1.3 billion. Then nothing happens for a long time and then VVD comes up with 0,7, CDA with 0,4, D66 with 0,3 and GroenLinks with 0.2 billion. Those are the figures from the Central Planning Office. The Cabinet is a missionary, but the Chamber isn't. Negotiations are under way and may take a very long time, but one thing we have all promised our constituents: much more money for the police. The minister who is here in trade union K can get to work if we give him an order as a Second Chamber. I am therefore going to take Mr Verhoeven's hand. In the second term, I will come forward with a motion to ensure that this Chamber can put this government to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u25	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA, if she is in the Chamber. I think I can hear her coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Any criminal who goes free because of the poor functioning of the search, harms confidence in the police and the government in general. In the fight against criminals, it is crucial that our detectives are equipped with the right training, knowledge and expertise. It is precisely the lack of quality and self-cleaning ability, the poachy consultation structures and the poor equipment that ensure that things do not happen as they should happen within the police. Mr Van der Steur has already forwarded a number of recommendations to us as Minister. We have no comment or criticism on this, because these recommendations have been largely taken up from reports. I do have some important questions. My first question to Minister Blok relates to our own actions. The report clearly states that the House of Representatives, in the way in which it completes its controlling task, is too much focused on details and too little on the results. How does the police organization shape this? How will the Minister shape and direct this in the debate in the Lower House? How should we do that? My second question concerns culture. The report makes it clear that social and cultural aspects remain under-explored in the reforms and the necessary innovations in the investigation. In five years we have tried to solve many things in the structure and too little in culture. What turn of events are we going to see now? What will the new cabinet be able to do to ensure that precisely that aspect of lack of self-reflection, lack of self-learning ability and lack of criticism and the lack of good management structures needed to deliver this culture change is changed? I also have a bit of a déjà vu feeling after five years; I was previously a spokesperson in the police field. It seems that the same problems continue to arise. I was hesitant about the introduction of national police, and I said at that time that we cannot solve with structure what is not good in culture. I also have a question about chain cooperation. I quote from the report: "The chain has a lean net effect, long lead times and a watered-down penalty measure." It almost raises the question of whether we still need to solve many things in the criminal chain or whether we need to go more out-of-court cases because they are faster and more effective and cost less on balance, although the latter is not the most decisive argument. What is the Minister's view on this whole? What can we do to ensure a less diluted effect? Are we going on with administrative matters despite the fact that there is often a lot of criticism of them, precisely from the criminal chain? I would like to devote the last minute of my speaking time to Brabant. I agree with my colleague from Brabant who has spoken about the camera surveillance and the call of our forest rangers. My second question is what speedy results we can achieve following the call of several mayors from Brabant on the refuges. They want a better registration obligation so that not only the main residents but also other persons are better represented in order to tackle, for example, the problem of Fort Orange. They also ask for influence on consultations with, for example, the FIOD and the Social Affairs inspectors to ensure that they can take joint action. This should not be determined from The Hague, but could also be more demand-driven. Does the Minister feel anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u27	I didn't quite understand something in the part about taking off criminal or administrative. We often have discussions on how best to do this. Criminal justice is often a bit flawed; it takes too long. When we did that in Brabant, the Labour Party criticized precisely because we did not do it in criminal law, which offers all legal guarantees. Now I'm looking for a way to understand Mrs. Chicken. She says it shouldn't be administrative, but what do we have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u28	This is a question I am asking, because I have gone through that report seriously again from A to Z, but you have done so before. One of the issues highlighted in that report is that there is insufficient cooperation in the chain. If the chain does work well together, in specific teams, it will work better, both in terms of information transmission and in terms of effectiveness. It is also said that the long lead times in the judicial system lead to a watered-down measure of punishment. My question is how the Minister assesses this and how he looks at the extrajudicial judgment. There is no clear conclusion in the report on this, so I want to know how the Minister sees it. Within the Labour Party, we have always had a lot of discussion about this. I myself am a somewhat more administratively oriented type, because I think: if it can't be out of time, you should also look at the breadth and give those mayors a lot of powers. But of course I have always looked carefully and listened to our more legal people, like my predecessor Jeroen Recourt, to keep that balance in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u29	Mrs. Kuik said it herself: Brabant spokesmen. Let me say that I am very happy that we now have a Brabant spokesperson, because he understands that sometimes it does not work in criminal law, but with good guarantees it may be possible to do so much faster and more efficiently in another way, so that is a small profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u30	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u31	I told you before: Brabant is my backyard, but I am standing here in front of the whole of the Netherlands. We also need to look at where the problem first arises.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u32	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u33	I give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u34	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I too would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Özütok. I look forward to the forthcoming debates with her, not only with Mrs Özütok but with all the players who have been re-established after the suspension of the elections. Our first debate in this new period is about the research that has been done into the quality of detection, the investigation of truth, and a number of letters and reports that have appeared since then. Around that investigation Acting for truth, I believe there was a possible misunderstanding. That investigation has indeed been discussed in the Chamber before, but the issue is important enough in the meantime also by the Cabinet the necessary measures have been taken and letters sent to re-examine it. I will answer the questions in order of the questioners. Since Mrs Van Toorenburg was the first speaker to ask a lot of questions that were actually put by everyone, the answer will be somewhat shorter later in my speech. Mrs Van Toorenburg was the first to address the question of whether steps are still being taken forward. Mr Van Raak more or less wondered whether something has actually changed over the past five years. The Trade Report is true, but also the other reports that have been published recently on tracking actually show a number of things at the same time. More important than these reports are undoubtedly the impressions we all have when we talk to people in the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office and then always leave with the feeling of: what is being worked and motivated and what is being achieved despite the difficult conditions. Mrs Van Toorenburg had already found out that I was in Brabant yesterday. There I was indeed with drivers but also with just the team in Oosterhout and in the police. That was indeed about the problems they faced, but it was certainly also about the extremely motivated way in which they often do their complicated work. When you look back for decades, you can signal a number of moments when there were very high waves. This has even led to a parliamentary inquiry. Around the Schiedammer Parkkuid there has been a lot of commotion and many measures have been taken, which is also understandable. Even now, after a major reorganisation, as with the national police, it squeaks in many places, but at the same time it delivers excellent performance. This is also confirmed by international investigations. In politics, for lack of hard science, looking at how things are going in similar countries is often the best thing you can do. Even when our police are compared to police forces in other countries, our police come out neatly with the best police in the world, which may also be said. All this is not a reason to sit back. As has rightly been said, crime does not sit still, but it continues to develop and it continues to seek new opportunities. So you have to keep running up to stay the same place. In this context, not only has the Trades report been sent to the truth, but my predecessor has launched a number of measures based on a problem analysis and some seventeen initial measures have been launched. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether these measures would continue and whether monitoring would take place. We regularly send progress reports on this matter to the Chamber. The last one was sent in November. For example, the type of concrete measures involved has to do with improving craftsmanship, a subject that has often been mentioned here in relation to cases of common crime. In this context, for example, permanent duos have been formed between the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that the chain runs more smoothly. A large number of information projects have also been launched. I have already seen a few times with admiration that a policeman or woman proud of the iPhone quickly had information. That does not mean that we are done with this, but that I can answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's question as to whether steps have been taken and whether they are carried forward with 'yes'. Will the Chamber be informed about this? Sure. Mrs. Van Toorenburg and others asked how we support the Brabant mayors. This has been the case in recent times. In the budgets for 2016 and 2017, additional money has been made available to tackle undermining crime. Part of that money is specifically labeled for Brabant and Limburg. Yesterday, I was even allowed to attend the extra trainings that the detectives there could give for this extra money. In addition to the money question, the question of cooperation plays a role. Yesterday, I congratulated the Brabant officials, policemen and people of the Public Prosecutor's Office on the fact that, although Brabant is concerned about the problem, it is still at the forefront of it: there is really cooperation there on the retina. Members of the municipal council really ask themselves, in the case of licence applications or simply cycling around the village, what is actually happening in this farmhouse and who owns this property? That awareness is also needed in other places in the country, but clearly much further developed there. It is also maintained; one continues to seek each other out. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the exchange of information. That signal has always been brought to my attention, not only yesterday, but also in previous meetings with the mayors. At the moment there are also good experiences with this. Good agreements have been made for the exchange of information under the flag of the Regional Information and Expertise Centres (RIECs). There really is a broad exchange between different organisations. The Dutch Data Protection Authority has looked into this. In Eindhoven and also in Tilburg, I understand, the RIEC-construction was approved. However, the Authority has reported on information sharing under the flag of the municipalities that there is no legal basis for this. That does not mean that nothing can be done, but it cannot be done on that title. I have therefore asked, in consultation with the regional mayors, for examples of requests for information which they say are really not possible. I'm a missionary, so I wasn't given to put forward far-reaching new legislative proposals, but I can, of course, prepare something neatly that would help. Then it is up to a missionary successor to assess whether that should be laid down in a law. Information sharing is, in a country in which we also handle privacy carefully, bound to legal guarantees and purpose binding. In any case, I would like to use usefully in the coming period to take those steps that are possible in a missionary status.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u35	I've talked quite intensively with mayors, police and detectives on information sharing a number of times. They already have a whole list of things that can and cannot be exchanged. Can we agree with the Minister that, once he has that list, he will inform the Chamber of what he will do with it? After all, it is a very pressing point. In 77 pages, the Dutch Data Protection Authority describes what is not allowed, but we must, of course, ensure that certain things are allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u36	Then we need to be clear. I can, in consultation with the municipalities, make a list of bottlenecks, but Mrs Van Toorenburg asked what I would do with them. It realizes that a cabinet with missionary status cannot come up with completely new legislation. So I can set things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u37	I think that is only limited, but that aside. I think it is important that if there is crime in Brabant that is unprecedented and if a number of municipalities indicate that they need to exchange information on a good basis, we know what needs to be done. Well, we can either agree on that or we can't. But we really have to take steps, because I understand that Tilburg is not doing anything at all on a number of parts at the moment. That can't be true!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u38	In my view, we agree on the need to make a sharp assessment of this with the help of the municipalities. The current state of affairs means that a minister can take the step of preparation, but cannot take the step of completely new and far-reaching legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u39	Then we'll just wait for the letter. Then we can see what responsibility we have to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the problems surrounding Fort Orange. There are problems on more holiday parks, but Fort Orange is a very pregnant example, although there are also good people living there. The problem is well known to me. In general terms, the lead lies inevitably with the local authorities, but of course we are willing to support them. We do this along the route of the National Information and Expertise Centre, where we support the RIEC's. We also have regular consultations on the issue of crime in holiday parks. At my request, a hand-out is now being developed for the benefit of municipalities with the tools they can use to tackle this problem. It is a subject that I regularly discuss with the regional mayors. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked if additional legal measures are needed specifically for holiday parks. Or was it Mrs. Helder who asked? They are not known to me, but if there is such a specific wish, I will undoubtedly be given them in consultation with the regional mayors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u41	I would like to have a letter from the cabinet on this. I know the Minister of Social Affairs went to Fort Orange, too. He has found that there are problems with the approach to the recreation park, because it is a private area in which you cannot take a number of criminal and administrative measures. He told the mayors that an amendment to the law is needed. After that, things got a little quiet, because there were elections. I would like to know what is going on and ask the Minister to send a letter on this. What should a future cabinet and the Chamber set up to ensure that the problems surrounding these recreational parks can be solved? It is private territory, so it is sometimes complicated to apply administrative law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u42	Here's what I'm suggesting. I will talk about this in the next consultation with the mayors of the region. That's next month. After that consultation, I will send a letter to the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u43	I like that commitment. I'd like to give you a few more details. I therefore think it is right that we should take a clear look at what exactly has been agreed and what preparations the Minister is going to make. I also see that there are differences between the mayors. Some mayors take their places of refuge in a certain way, for example through all the recreational homes themselves to cat into individual homes, allowing them to do more. At other places like Fort Orange that seems to be more complicated. I'd like to give that to you, too. My question was actually more specific in order to expand the information on the Fort Orange issue with the other issues the Minister discusses with the mayors and to make clear to the Chamber what is and is not being prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mrs Kuik is right that there are municipalities that think the problem is manageable and use instruments to do so. That is also the reason why we are doing this, so that the good experiences between the municipalities can be shared. After consultation with the regional mayors, I will therefore not be more specific to Fort Orange, although I realize that this is a very well-known example of whether there is any need for additional legal space or whether the approach is sufficient if everyone is well aware of the instruments available. That's the question I've been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u45	I'll make it a little more specific anyway. I realize that the Chamber has talked about this several times, but it remains a recurring thing. This applies both to drug dumping and camera surveillance as well as to other matters. I would therefore like it to be more complete, otherwise it will remain a kind of ritual in which we ask questions and the Minister answers half or not. That's not his fault, by the way. It's not a reproach, so please don't look like that, Minister! My more specific question is as follows. I would like an overview of the wishes of mayors, which the Minister thinks are necessary for additional measures, but also of the wishes which he does not think need to be met, as well as of those that need not so much a legal adjustment as a different approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u46	We understand each other well. It begins with the wishes and needs of local government. As it happens in life, that is not a wish list on which every wish automatically gets a "yes." We are going to look seriously at what is feasible under the current instruments and what may require legal adaptation. Then it is a political consideration whether you want to do so. Then we come back to the current state-of-the-art situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u47	When mayors act in Brabant, they must also be protected, so have our protection and the protection of the minister. Of course, we've seen what happened to the mayor of Gilze and Rijen. He was threatened, I believe by an arms dealer. The D.A. didn't press charges. The Minister has spoken out, and I congratulate him on that. He thought there should be prosecution. To be clear, is this management by speech or has the Minister also taken measures to ensure that mayors and directors can always count on our protection and that an investigation is always carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u48	Mr Van Raak is absolutely right when he says that threat is already unacceptable, but that it is worse than usual when it comes to mayors or others who serve a general interest on our behalf. Following the signal from the mayor of Gilze and Rijen, the Public Prosecutor's Office indicated that it was incorrect. It apologized to him. They've been accepted by the mayor. That's the way it's supposed to be, I think. It wasn't right. Where people work, people make mistakes. If there are then equestrian excuses that are then accepted, we find together that it should be improved in the future. We're gonna do better now, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u49	Fine, but does this mean that now is also between the ears of the D.A.'s office that always happens in these kinds of cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u50	The D.A. has expressed regret about this. It feels that there is a need to prosecute. We know that the D.A. has a professional space for prosecution decisions. The prosecution has clearly stated that in a case like this it should have taken a different decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u51	I was left with a feeling of a little unsatisfaction. That's why I just picked it out for the Minister. Minister Asscher has been to Fort Orange and has been recorded: criminals are not in charge here; the campsite must be closed; I am going to work to develop legislation so that the mayor of Zundert can do so as soon as possible. He's found out with the mayors that they can't do anything. That was the hook on the basis of which I said this. He says they can't take any action. That is why I wanted to know the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u52	Yeah, but I don't really see where it goes wrong. I have indicated that I am going to talk to the mayors about this issue and that on this basis I will inform the Chamber about the measures that are already possible and about any additional measures that may be required. If these additional measures concern legislation, I shall be allowed to lapse again, and that will be the responsibility of another cabinet. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked about the boas in nature reserves. This demand was prompted by the persistent signals, again this weekend, about the extensive dumping of waste from drug production. Those boas play a crucial role. The organisations that use boas receive financial support, from both V and J and Economic Affairs. The boas are the ones who find the misery on their rounds through the woods. Preferably they will avoid it because of their presence, as far as possible. In that context, the bat camera was discussed. That's what more people were asking about. As far as I know, there is no legal obstacle to using a camera that looks at bats, badgers, bad falcons or church owls, even if there happens to be a criminal in the church owlhouse or the badger castle. I do not know this case very specifically, but this is what I often do: if it can be emailed or sent to me, we will dive into it. But I think the images from the bat camera can be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u53	It is not a very important point, but the Minister has just had fine statements of principle on purpose. I know this could be a functional solution to something. It absolutely needs to be looked at, but this should involve target binding in the way in which it is looked at. Otherwise, those words aren't as valuable as I just thought they sounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u54	Fortunately, there is always a sharp constitutional MP in the Chamber. The use of data has a legal basis in Article 126 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I indicated that I would like to see the specific case, but on the basis of that article it seems to me that you cannot say in general that it should not be allowed. Ms Van Toorenburg also asked whether sufficient progress was being made in tackling cybercrime. Mr Verhoeven also asked me that question. An important problem with cybercrime is the very low willingness to report. It is even lower than with the unfortunately quite Dutch bicycle theft. A number of measures have therefore already been put in place to improve the willingness to report. On the one hand, this is done within the police organisation itself, by improving awareness among the intake and service staff. On the other hand, this is done, for example, by enabling Internet declaration and by generating publicity, by setting up specific hotlines. This has to do with the National Intelligence Point Internet scam, and more specifically with the Child Porn hotline and that for identity fraud. In addition, we are making a special hand delivery for business, which unfortunately is often faced with cybercrime. Finally, Mrs van Toorenburg mentioned a navrant example of working in detectives when it comes to carrying and copying paper files. A process of digitization of the chain has been launched. Part of this is the central scanning of the intervention cases. This is about 70% of the business flow. As a result, the paper files are replaced by digital files. This is implemented by region. We expect this to be completed in the course of 2017. Another destination will then have to be found for the copy room. Ms. Helder asked about the diversity of the corps. Mrs Tellegen asked for that too. I very much agree with the Chief Constable when he points out that the police organisation should reflect society as much as possible. You do not make any concessions to the quality, but you will look consciously when you discover that women or certain groups of ethnic origin or certain specialties are less represented than you would like for an organization with such an important public task. It is quite right that the Chief Constable has also declared that one of his spearheads. Mrs. Helder asked if people within the police should not say that they are for the PVV. In general, people in the Netherlands can say that they are for a political party. People have to act like a good employee, but in a democracy, it can be done within any party, even if you have a public function. That's a good thing. Regardless of that party, you must continue to abide by the rules that apply to that organization. Mrs. Helder asked what I'm going to do about, as she put it, the huge shortage of detective capacity. Fortunately, as Mrs Helder knows, the previous budget provided a substantial additional amount for security, including for the police. That is what we are currently working on as wisely as possible, but also on smarter ICTs, for example. Mrs Helder realises that the demand for further capacity expansion is receiving the same answer as I have already given to previous requests for radical changes: a outgoing cabinet cannot make major, far-reaching proposals for amendments. Mr Verhoeven asked about the general measures taken in response to the Trade Report. I hope that I have answered that question sufficiently in the direction of Mrs Van Toorenburg. Mr Verhoeven also asked me to deal specifically with the too low share of cybercrime. I have just indicated that, by taking measures within the police organisation, but also towards the public and the business community, we are increasing the willingness and possibility of reporting. Mr Verhoeven also asked about the state of affairs of the side-instromers. Reports, as well as the chief of police, indicate that there is a need for more HBOs, of course alongside the traditional officer, who does excellent work. Are there any progress? Is the police academy prepared for that? Agreements have been made on that side-inflow with ascending numbers. For 2018, 500 FTE of highly skilled staff will be targeted. The police academy anticipates that. I hope to have answered Mrs Tellegen on the issue of the improvements that have been made since the appearance of Trade in truth. She specifically asked whether the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure would not lead to additional administrative burdens or a greater complexity of the investigation. If that were the case, we wouldn't be doing it right. The Code of Criminal Procedure is an impressive, elderly lady. I understand that the first version of it was prepared before universal suffrage was introduced. It is therefore essential to modernise it. But that is precisely what we are doing with the aim, under all legal safeguards, of making criminal proceedings more flexible than they are at present. That is precisely the aim of reducing the administrative burden. Mrs Tellegen also asked me to address the issue of integrity. I have sent a letter to the Chamber in response to the concerns that had arisen regarding Mr Wilders' security, which contains the measures we are taking in this area. I have written that in the area of integrity, too, there is a lot going well with the police, but at the same time a number of things can be improved. I have also announced at this point that I will explore whether it is possible to carry out a permanent screening by actually comparing the police staff file with the criminal record that is also used for the vog. That would require a legislative change, so I can take a preparatory step on that. I'll start that preparation. Mr Van Raak referred to the look-back and asked whether significant steps had actually been taken. I hope that I have already given it sufficient consideration. I am therefore convinced that significant steps have been taken, but also that the work is far from finished. However, I will ensure that the Chamber can continue to monitor progress. Mr Van Raak specifically referred to the top salaries, on which I sent a letter to the Chamber yesterday. In that letter, I already wrote that a transitional right had been agreed upon when the Law was introduced on top income standards. I do not think that can be a surprise for Mr Van Raak. Such transitional rights are also part of the rule of law. When you take such a measure, there must be a reasonable transitional period. If you didn't include it in a law, you'd be careless. I'm sure a judge would point that out to you. To prevent that, a transitional measure has been taken. In this context, there is a situation for a number of years in which a number of employees earn more than the ministerial salary. This is also influenced from year to year by occasional developments, for example in this case the reduction of the deductible pension. Furthermore, the Cabinet has the Top Income Standards Act 3 in preparation. The missionary status will apply again, but there will be no idleness in this area either. But it can't be a complete surprise that this situation is still happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u55	The Home Secretary is always trying to explain to me that right of transition. Then he says: yes, Mr Van Raak, so there are people who still earn far too much, but they are getting less and less. The number of people to whom this applies is reduced every year to zero, namely at the end of the transitional period. But with the police, it's the other way around. There goes the number of people who make too much money. I think that's kind of weird. At a time of transition, when we are growing to the norm and the top incomes are being reduced, the number of top-income people in the police is increasing. That can never, never be the intention of a transitional arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u56	It is important, however, to show the reality behind these figures. I have just said that, even at such a transitional period, there are occasional developments that can explain this. I was talking about cutting off deductible pensions, which means that part of the salary is no longer paid as a pension contribution, but as a salary. That's one of those developments. Another is that in six cases a benefit has been paid because of a post-traumatic stress disorder. I do not think it is wise to say that such benefits can never be granted, or that they should not go beyond this standard. The wish that this would not happen at all would, I think, do more harm than good. It's not legal to anchor. If the Chamber wanted further legislation, it would be up to another cabinet. It has already been prepared by Mr Plasterk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u57	When it comes to top incomes in the public sector and the police, we set a standard. That standard is the ministerial standard, or rather, much better, the chief of police standard, as Erik Akerboom remains well below that standard. That's the standard with the police. There may be exceptional cases and there may be transitional arrangements, but there is no reason to give a consultant, Bernard Welten for example, €267.000. That's $22,250 a month! Why don't you go tell that to a blue cop on the street? That's insane. Why should such a person, a consultant, who just advises a little... I can do that too and I like to earn it for nothing.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr Van Raak is now saying two things in his interruption, which cannot both be right at the same time. Fortunately, he says with me that it is logical and inevitable that there is a transitional arrangement. He then notes in a high tone, however, that it is very strange that this transitional arrangement is being used and that a person who has been promised a high salary becomes visible at such a time. One is the result of the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u59	When the national police were introduced, we all wanted a cultural change in the Chamber. We wanted the males who were in the old corps and who made a mess of it to disappear. But what happened? In many of these cases, these males have been transferred to the national police and have not rarely been given a substantial raise. That's what went wrong with the national police. That is wrong policy and a wrong decision, and that has nothing to do with transitional arrangements. If there is a transitional arrangement, it must be reduced and there can be no more. We have set a standard, the ministerial standard. The chief of police has set a standard, the Akerboom norm. I'm just asking the Minister to start maintaining it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u60	This is a real act of violence in the real world. I wasn't in the debate about the national police, but Mr Van Raak was. But I do not think Mr Van Raak said there: abolish the rule of law and break open existing contracts, even if you know that this is not allowed. Nor did he say: I am opposed to a flexible dismissal right, but fire anyone who deserves more than the minister. Those are the two options that were open. I hear Mr Van Raak apparently felt that the right of dismissal could have been changed at that time. Maybe we would have agreed on that, but that didn't happen. The right of dismissal has not changed at that time. I think this is also a bit of a special discussion within the Committee on Security and Justice. In a state of law, this is how you complete a transitional arrangement on your way to a desired situation. The rest is boiler music.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u61	I'm gonna hit that last one, kettle music. It's also about moral leadership. Let's say that to each other, too. What is perhaps more important is that the Minister himself said that in an intermediate sense it is that I do not think it is very clear about a transitional arrangement, but that we do not yet have rules for the layer below the summit. I'm confused right now. What is actually the obstacle to tackling the layer below the top? We understand that legislation still needs to be developed and passed through the Chamber. There is therefore no transitional arrangement at all for this group. On this point, it is purely a matter of moral leadership and perhaps the Chamber will have to take a new decision in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u62	Mrs Van Toorenburg is right that the layer below the summit requires additional legislation. That's the WNT3. The cabinet prepared it. I have to say it often in this debate, but it will take a while, because we are dealing with our missionary status. However, preparations have already been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u63	That was the confusion. So this is not the transitional arrangement, this is a preparation of the law that we may be able to discuss. I think it's good to say it's also about moral leadership. That's where it comes in. Let me just say that I have a great deal of difficulty with this additional collective agreement increase, which is actually being paid out, if I see the real blue in the street much less extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u64	We have all spoken firm words about this, but I have a specific question. The WNT3 is now with the Council of State. We're now in a missionary period, but the minister standing here is from the VVD house. Can I then trust that he, as the largest negotiating partner at the formation table, will ensure that the WNT3 will receive a warm handover, so that at least this interest will soon be protected and consolidated in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u65	I am here as a minister, even though I am a outgoing minister; I am not here as a negotiator. So I can't answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u66	That is a little too easy for me, because I also hear that this Minister of the VVD does not consider the situation which has arisen to be desirable. This concerns both moral leadership as regards what is happening and the low below the summit, wherever that situation actually arises and great rewards are still taking place. So he thinks it's important that something happens about that. This is an important change that we have seen in recent years. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u67	I believe that the cabinet I belong to has led two laws on the standardization of top incomes by the Chamber. In my previous role, I applied these laws to the housing corporations and I apply them now, but I also apply them in all their dimensions. It remains a rule of law here. As far as supplementary legislation is concerned, no one in this Chamber can be surprised that in elections everyone goes to the electorate and says: vote for me, because then I am going to settle this and that. Traditionally, people try to get into the government very quickly afterwards to settle that. So I'm gonna have to wait and see, but in the meantime, I'm a missionary. I am therefore doing everything that is necessary, but really far-reaching new legislative proposals, and this concerns Mr Plasterk's area, which traditionally does not fit into a missionary status.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u68	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u69	I've been in this house long enough to know both roles: opposition and coalition. I therefore ask you, as the VVD Minister, to ensure a warm transfer so that these essential matters, which he also recognises are important, will soon simply be included in the coalition agreement and that this will not only depend on whether there is a majority for them in this House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u70	Asking the Minister what is happening at a negotiating table where he is not present really leads to nothing. Then I wouldn't inform the Chamber truthfully, and that's a lot of fuss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u71	Are you going to a roundup?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u72	Yes, because I come to Mrs Kuik's questions, of which I hope I have answered a lot. She asked me about Fort Orange when I was interrupted. Mrs Kuik also asked about my view on the application of administrative instruments in addition to criminal instruments. In my full conviction, it's and-and. That's what you really notice in the conversations with the police, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the mayors and everyone else involved in dealing with organized crime. In addition, the tax domain is also very important in this approach. It would be wrong and really damaging to tackle crime to say taboos in advance about parts of the whole chain that we need. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u73	We shall now proceed to the second term. I call Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u74	Most of the questions have indeed been answered. I am just curious whether the Minister himself had the conversation with the police to really feel what he had promised the Chamber and what people are running into. I shall table a motion, even if I wish to be reluctant to do so. I don't feel good about the camera footage. I hear the Minister say: if there is an example, I'll hear it. This has now been the subject of two major papers in the newspaper. So I actually expected the Minister to know this and I think it is important that the Minister really informs himself about what is going on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the problem of dumping of drug waste has increased last year, in particular in the South of the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas camera images can contribute to more effective detection and prosecution of drug criminals;]] [[Whereas the use of the images in practice appears to be problematic;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultations with interested parties in order to consider ways of removing bottlenecks and informing the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-693]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u75	Let me be clear: I am absolutely not concerned with new legislation or anything complicated about privacy. The point is that we have a regulation, a legislative provision, namely Article 126nb, which seems to be very unclear. It is up to us to ensure that the practice understands that regulation. Finally, I would like to make one final remark: I have said every word I have said today on behalf of the Christian Union. That party could not be here today, but it also considers it to be a very important debate. So here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u76	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I heard him say that the Chamber is regularly informed about the progress. That's right. However, we get these progress letters regularly, but there is often only one paragraph in it about strength of knowledge and skills. At least that is the case with the letter from June, not November but June. There is a little bit of going along the core. For example, that letter states that part of the missing knowledge and skills is received by external hire. We just had that little debate on the WNT, and then you get this kind of invigorating business. My group understands that outside hiring is indeed necessary during the transition period, but it should not remain so. The report clearly states that this needs to be addressed as one of the bottlenecks in knowledge and skills, but it also states that the professional competence of teachers at the Police College is too low. Of course, the Minister will have to deal with that. It also states that the training offer at the Police College does not adequately match the demand of the workplace. These are important points, which should be addressed in such a letter of progress. As far as drug dumping is concerned, I agree with what Mr van Toorenburg has said about this. I can back that up, because today in Heijen in my province I'm throwing Limburg in ten barrels of xtc waste in the berm. So about everything that can contribute to detection, my group says: you must do so. I come to the motion I raised in the debate on the interruption with Mr Tellegen. In it, the Chamber asked the government, the modernisation of the Code of Criminal Procedure alone, whether at the current rate or not, to continue if the formation of the national police were not disturbed. It was the PvdA who opposed it, but the colleagues of the VVD were in favour. That is actually a welcome fact, because my motion was adopted with it. There is once an accepted PVV motion! I think this is a good point to close with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u77	Mr. Chairman. Normally I would not have needed a second term, because of the Minister's adequate response and because I have very few motions if, as you know. However, I still owe an answer to my colleague from the PVV. Mrs Helder had asked me about the position of D66 on the inclusion of the 5,000 aspirants in the standard of 49.802 fte. I've been diving into parliamentary history for a while and found Chamber questions from former D66 member and former Chief of Staff Magda Berndsen, again from 2012. She even put the issue on the agenda years ago, I dare say. At the time, she asked Minister Opstellen how it would be possible for the aspirants to be included in the figures for only 40% of the dual system since 2002, but still to be counted 100%. That is not right as far as D66 is concerned. That should be different. We believe that 40% of these 5,000 should be counted and that 3,000 agents are therefore overcounted in the statistics. So either the statistics need to be adjusted, or money needs to be allocated to raise the percentage. But Mr Van Raak will be tabling a motion on this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his extremely kind congratulations and for answering the questions. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, despite his missionary status, the Minister must do everything within his power to help solve the problems in the national police. We want the Minister not to sit on his hands but to take an active stance on one point, namely the diversity policy of the national police. I also ask the Chamber to give a ruling on this. Chief of Staff Akerboom has the ambition to really make the police a reflection of society. That ambition must be fulfilled. I ask the Minister to actively support this with advice and deed. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Chief Akerboom of the National Police is planning to take serious steps in police diversity policy;]] [[calls on the Government to warmly welcome the intention of the national police corps leadership to support as much as possible and to inform the Chamber of how the Minister will facilitate police diversity policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-694]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u79	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's right today. Anyone who criticises the functioning of the police, but especially the shortage of the police, is right in my opinion. Some things I see come back with some fear. I mention, for example, the fact that cops are still behind the copier and have to go to the D.A.'s office with boxes of paper. When I became a Member of Parliament in 2006, that was already a problem. Then that would be resolved quickly. We are now ten years ahead and it is still "quickly" solved. The Cabinet is a missionary, but the Chamber isn't. I have looked at what we want to invest, partly at the invitation of Mr Verhoeven. The SP wants to invest 1.3 billion, but unfortunately we are not at the table. The VVD comes with 700 million, the CDA with 400 million, D66 with 300 million and GroenLinks is a bit behind by 200 million. So that's the minimum that can come out. We all think that something must be done quickly. We in the House of Representatives can give an order to the Minister. That $200 million is the minimum that's gonna come out. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large majority of the parties, now represented in the Lower House, want to invest extra in the police;]] [[noting that there is a budget surplus of 2.9 billion;]] [[calls on the government to make an additional 200 million available to the police immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-695]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u80	I'm sure it's really screaming silly what I'm doing, but I'm gonna ask anyway. Will the SP now negotiate with a VVD minister in this room while excluding the VVD? I thought SP and VVD could have just had a proper conversation with each other about how they were going to negotiate. 'Cause it's a little lame. We can talk to each other about the question of where money should go with it or not. The SP then says that she doesn't really want to do that with the VVD, but then the SP starts in the first serious debate about money with negotiations towards the VVD. Isn't that a little crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u81	There's a minister here on behalf of the government. We can give that minister orders. There are indeed negotiations going on and they may last for months to come. I've heard every spokesperson here say that urgent matters need to be improved with the police. If we, the House of Representatives, think that urgent matters need to be improved in the police and we come up with our lists, then it is as neat as we give the Minister the financial opportunity to do something about it. In all my simple wisdom, therefore, I have put the electoral programmes next to each other. GroenLinks has 200 million at the bottom of the list, so that amount is the safest. Let us at least make that amount available to the Minister so that he can get to work. We all come up with our lists of what the minister should do. He's right to say he's a missionary and that a mission has to come from the Chamber if we want him to do something. So now I'm proposing an assignment. That seems to me to be the purest way of doing things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u82	No, it's not. The SP has indicated that they do not want to negotiate. So we don't negotiate with the SP either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u83	That's bullshit, of course. It's not about negotiation. It's about a outgoing minister saying, "I can't do anything if I don't get a concrete proposal from the Chamber." I am therefore making a concrete proposal, which is the most cautious proposal you can make. Here's my proposal. I assume the Chamber agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mrs. Kuik renounces her second term contribution. We'll wait until the Minister has all the motions so he can respond in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u85	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked if I am talking to the police. Sure, yesterday, but obviously that conversation isn't over. It takes place at all levels, from the people who work locally along the entire route to the corps leadership. Furthermore, the link with the Public Prosecutor's Office is crucial to the final prosecution. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kuik have tabled a motion on the use of camera images. I was pleased with her explanatory statement in which she asked me to make sure that the users of these camera images were not unclear. With this explanation, I would like to leave this motion to the House's judgement. Ms Helder pointed out that the progress report was relatively brief on the strengthening of knowledge and skills. I would like to say that we will discuss this in greater detail in the next progress report. Mr Verhoeven did not ask me any questions. Ms Özütok tabled a motion on diversity in which she asked the government to warmly welcome and support the Chief Constable's initiative and to inform the Chamber of how this would be facilitated. I should like to make it quite clear that I have done so and that the motion is therefore superfluous, but since this is her first motion, I would like to leave it to the House's discretion. Finally, I come to Mr Van Raak, who is apparently satisfied with his own contribution. It calls on the government to make an additional 200 million available to the police immediately. He knows this is impure. There is a budget approved by the Chamber for 2017 which, fortunately, includes additional money for security. No new budget has been adopted since then. Negotiations are now under way and I must wait and see. A motion in which extra money is requested in the meantime is therefore uncovered, and uncovered motions are always dissuaded by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u86	Now my proverbial lump breaks. The Minister says: I am a missionary, I cannot do anything, unless the House of Representatives asks me to do so and gives me the opportunity to do so. Now there is a request to work with Finance. The House of Representatives wants to offer the Minister the finance to solve all the problems she sees, and then the Minister says: I do not want that. This does not seem to me to be purely state law. The cabinet is outgoing, the Chamber is not, and I do not think it is very appropriate for a outgoing minister to say that a Chamber should not do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u87	The Chamber may approve and amend budgets. The Chamber has approved the 2017 budget with additional money that we will use well. Since then, the Chamber has not approved a budget. I don't have any extra money. That money doesn't suddenly appear by tabling a motion. So this is an uncovered motion and I have to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-7.u88	We will vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled.
