ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 34702 Change in the Constitution, aimed at establishing a constitutional basis for Caribbean public bodies and arranging an electoral college for the First Chamber. I have already welcomed the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. If we could have held this debate two weeks earlier, it would have been seven years after the historic date of 10-10-10, which brought us the new state relations in the Kingdom, that we would have dealt with today's constitutional review at second reading. The revision that gives Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba as territorial public bodies in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands a constitutional basis. In this case, this seven-year symbolic period is not something to be proud of. As far as my group is concerned, the constitutional reform could and should have been implemented much earlier. After all, this is not a cosmetic constitutional change or a formal consolidation of an existing reality. An important consequence of this proposal is that the Dutch electorate on the islands can exercise their influence in the next elections of the First Chamber; an influence they have not been able to exercise since 10-10-10. Mr. Chairman. My group is satisfied with the result. And a good arrangement goes above a quick settlement here. The special feature of the constitutional position of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba is that they have no division in a province. This means that a different structure must be chosen for the purposes of the First Parliamentary Elections. Unlike originally foreseen, the elections for the island councils and those for the First Chamber are now being split. In my group's view, this is essential. This also makes it possible for the non-Dutch on the islands, which, moreover, meet the requirements, to have the right to vote and stand as a candidate for the island councils. Through the figure of the electoral college which is now constitutionally based, it is also ensured that only Dutch people have influence on the First Chamber elections. Without unbundling, either the principle underlying the latter or the principle underlying the first would be undermined. Fortunately, the Minister now shares this view. If I am not mistaken, it is unique that this has been achieved through a novelle on a proposal for constitutional revision at first reading. In any case, we look forward to the implementation proposals. The other elements of the constitutional reform proposal speak for themselves and also have the agreement of my group. I am not going to go into that now either. I assume that the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom relations with the defence of this bill will have his last appearance in this house during this cabinet period. That is why it is a substantial, worthy and good proposal. I would like to thank the Minister for his good cooperation over the past period and wish him well for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u5	Mr. Chairman. It is remarkable that more than seven months after the Lower House elections, the outgoing Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations can now defend the constitutional revision he himself initiated at second reading and still in his, supposedly, last public appearance as minister. Moreover, it is also the last time in a presumably longer period that we can welcome a minister who himself is responsible for the Kingdom's relations portfolio. I'm not talking about it. This is a neutral remark on my part. Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Minister Plasterk for the five years he has devoted a great deal of effort to the Kingdom's relations. An underrated and certainly not an easy part of his portfolio. I would also like to thank him for his choice of taking direct responsibility for coordinating government policy for the BES islands. Mr. Chairman. I can be brief, on behalf of my group, on this legislative proposal for constitutional reform at second reading. We will support this. It already has a nice history in which this Chamber has shown itself in great harmony. This concerned the regulation of an electoral college for the composition of the First Chamber which is now included in the constitutional revision. And I welcome the fact that in a 'constitutional fencing party', as I mentioned at first reading, the government and the House of Representatives could be convinced of the desire expressed by the First Chamber to set up a separate electoral college for the composition of this Chamber on the islands, so that the right of the Dutch who live on the islands to contribute to the democratic legitimacy of this part of Parliament is not lost and, moreover, the non-Dutch who are residents can exercise the right to influence the composition of the island councils. As Mrs Van Bijsterveld has already said, we are waiting for implementing legislation with interest. Having said that, of course, this part is not the most important of this constitutional revision. That is the constitutional basis of the status of the three Caribbean-Dutch islands as public bodies within our state system. This is not a final assessment of the position of the three islands. One day it could be decided to let the islands become municipalities. In a further future, there may also be other horizons, although "possible" is not the same as "good imaginable." In any event, it is clear that there is no reason to abandon the public sector body model in the medium term. The present public bodies are now provided with a clear constitutional basis. In my group's view, this is really necessary. The status of public body allows for different legislation for the three islands, as we already knew in the form of the WolBES. It also makes it possible for the legislator to exercise the greatest possible restraint to introduce regular legislation, which is logical and self-evident for the European Netherlands, on the islands. It also makes it possible, where necessary, to vary greatly according to the nature and possibilities of the individual islands. Customisation and alignment with the three islands and their representatives must be and remain the starting point. Nevertheless, and with that I conclude, the Constitutional provision of Article 132a, paragraph 4, which opens up the possibility of introducing specific rules and measures in view of the special circumstances of the islands, can never constitute an argument for making the equality of treatment envisaged in Article 1 of the Constitution in equal cases between all those in the Netherlands. In this context, over the head of the Minister, who is in the worst possible form of missionary state, I call on the incoming cabinet to work towards an acceptable social minimum for the inhabitants of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba. Mr. Chairman. I await with interest the famous burden of Minister Plasterk's words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. I give the floor to Mr Sini.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to express my condolences to all the people of Saint-Maarten, Saint-Eustatius and Saba. It is unbelievable what damage has been caused by the violence of nature. I would like to thank the government through the Minister for its commitment to help alleviate the suffering of the people. On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to thank the Minister for his enormous commitment to both the BES islands and the other parts of the Kingdom. We're gonna miss him. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the second reading of a constitutional change to create a constitutional basis for Caribbean public bodies and to allow stepped-up representation of the inhabitants of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba in the First Chamber. My group supports the government's desire to give Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba a constitutional basis and to arrange for an electoral college for the First Chamber. We believe that this is the principle that every electorate should have the right to vote for his own parliament. As far as we are concerned, this applies to both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. It is very important to keep in mind the equivalence of the inhabitants of the Caribbean and of the European part of the Netherlands. My group is interested in the way in which the kicked-off voting rights for the First Chamber will be practically arranged. We look forward to the legislative proposal on this issue, which is currently before the House of Representatives. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister elaborate on the signals that the anchoring of Bonaire, Saint-Eustatius and Saba to be deployed in our Constitution does not seem to fall into good shape everywhere on the islands? Can he indicate to what extent this anchoring is also intended to improve the position of island inhabitants and promote socio-economic development? Mr. Chairman. Without security of existence, it is difficult for people to have confidence in the future. Poverty and, among other things, the problematic position of many children make the islands and their inhabitants particularly vulnerable. The Children's Ombudsman indicates that there are children who do not get enough food and do not have enough clothes because of poverty. Parents work too much because of the high cost of living, so they have too little attention for their children. The Kinderombudsman further writes in her report on the children's rights tour in Carabisch Netherlands that the stress caused by money problems sometimes leads to wrong choices, such as drinking and miseducation practices. What lessons does the Minister draw from this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u8	I hear Mr Sini from the PvdA making a lot of comments which I believe are outside the context of this proposal. But in view of that, Mr Sini says that this bill falls into bad shape on the BES islands. How am I supposed to reconcile this with the reaction that one of the members of the island council of Saint-Eustatius, Mr Clyde van Putten, gave to the Netherlands last week about ours and also their soldiers? Mr Van Putten said: if the military minister sends here, then we will kill them in our streets and burn them in our streets; leaders must lead. This was received with applause. Then why does Mr Sini still have such a tear-making story that we have to take so much responsibility for these islands, when they say to the Netherlands themselves "watch it and find out'?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u9	It is about the inhabitants of those islands and not so much about the gentleman who made these statements. We agree with the way in which the Minister condemned these statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u10	But I can hear you say that there is resistance on the islands to this proposal. Do you not agree with me that we should actually take a next step and say'sorry, but we should give these islands a future outside our kingdom system' instead of holding them in their hands indefinitely and against the will of the islands themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u11	As far as my party is concerned, we stick to the connection with those islands. We appreciate the Minister's commitment to this. If it is up to us, there should be more investment in better relations and better cooperation, but I will come back to that in my contribution. Mr. Chairman. Much has been improved in recent years, but more is needed. A major task is to achieve a renewed common vision of the future. A prerequisite for a common spot on the island horizon is, in our view, an intensive investment in better cooperation between the government on the one hand and the authorities and the inhabitants of the three islands on the other hand in the areas of poverty reduction, education and employment, among other things. What role does the Minister see for the government in this? My group assumes that the state-of-the-art changes contained in this bill can have a positive impact on the relationship between the European and Caribbean parts of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u12	I shall come back to what Mr Sini has just said. You say that we need to work intensively with the authorities of the islands in order to achieve all those things you mention in the overseas territories, while here in the Netherlands, under your cabinet, there has been severe cuts. But that also means working with such a Mr Van Putten, who sits there on the island council and calls for the slaughter of our soldiers. How do you see this collaboration? Because that island council is just a handful of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u13	It's about that one gentleman. As far as we are concerned, we are talking about the population of those three islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u14	But that one gentleman is a gentleman who has been a deputy in the past and still plays a prominent role in the administration of Saint-Eustatius. Would you like to work with that gentleman who calls for the murder of ours and their military, to accomplish all that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u15	Democracy also has its drawbacks, to put it that way. As far as we are concerned, we have finished with the Minister's statements to this gentleman about his statements, which we condemn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u16	Finally, Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u17	On the basis of that conviction, I therefore assume that you do not see fruitful cooperation with this gentleman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u18	No, not with that gentleman, exactly. But we are concerned about the representatives of the people there. Mr. Chairman. This better cooperation therefore also requires more than a constitutional anchoring of the Caribbean bodies and the setting up of an electoral college for the Upper Chamber. It is also a mutual sense of equivalence. As far as my group is concerned, there is a responsibility for the government to work for this. Can the Minister indicate how the government contributes to a better understanding between Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius, Saba and the European Netherlands? We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u19	Thank you very much, Mr Sini. I give the floor to Mr Van Kappen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the time, the BES Islands chose to be part of the Dutch state system. That was quite complicated, because the Dutch state system has only three constitutionally established levels of government, namely the Empire, the Province and the Municipality. However, the islands were too small to be considered a full province or municipality. The solution to this problem was found by provisionally designating the BES Islands as public bodies within the meaning of Article 134 of the Constitution with effect from 10-10-10. This arrangement made it possible to lay down different rules and to take other specific measures in view of the special circumstances which make these public bodies substantially different from the European part of the Netherlands. This differentiation provision has now been incorporated in Article 1 (2) of the Staff Regulations. With this constitutional amendment, public bodies are now fully incorporated into the Constitution as a constitutionally guaranteed form of government. The differentiation provision is now also included in the fourth paragraph of Article 132a of the Constitution. The differentiation clause has been the subject of much discussion since 10-10, both in the First and in the Second Chamber. However, the inclusion of the differentiation clause in the Constitution does not put an end to this discussion. Although the principle of the need for different rules for islands is widely accepted, the discussion focuses on the question of whether there are justified differences and when there are arbitrariness. In particular, the application of differentiation in determining an appropriate level of social security provision for the BES islands is proving difficult. The government's point of departure is that, in order to avoid a draining effect, the level of provision should not deviate too much from the level in force in the region. However, the level of provision must be acceptable within the Dutch state system. This vague and broad formulation creates a dilemma that has led to the necessary discussion in both the Second and First Chambers since 10-10-10. Mr. Chairman. I'll leave it at that. This is not an opportunity to continue the debate on this dilemma. I merely note that the inclusion of the differentiation clause in the Constitution does not solve this dilemma. We'll talk about it a lot. This constitutional revision also regulates the right to vote for the First Chamber. In the original bill, the absence of the provincial level also identified the island council as an electoral college for the election of the Upper Chamber. As a result of this construction, non-Dutch citizens legally resident on the islands for more than five years had to be denied the right to vote for the first tier of government, the island council, in order to prevent non-Dutch citizens from having influence on the election of the members of the First Chamber and thus on the Dutch foreign and defence policy. In the European Netherlands, on the other hand, non-Dutch citizens legally residing in the Netherlands for five years or more do have the right to vote for the first layer of government. This is possible because the members of the First Chamber are elected by Provincial States and because non-Dutch citizens in the European Netherlands do not have the right to vote in elections to the Provincial States. This Chamber considered by a large majority that the difference in treatment between non-Dutch residents residing in the Caribbean Netherlands and non-Dutch residents residing in the European Netherlands is undesirable and unnecessary. This Chamber therefore proposed as an alternative to consider the island council not as an electoral college for the election of the First Chamber, but to hold separate elections for the electoral college for the First Chamber, in which only voters of Dutch nationality may participate. The Minister agreed to this proposal and submitted a novella for this purpose. The present legislative proposal incorporates the alternative proposed by the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Our wishes are met. We don't have any more questions. We will therefore vote in favour of this bill. However, I would like to conclude by thanking our Minister, Mr Plasterk, for the good cooperation we have had. Mr. De Graaf has already recalled: Kingdom relations are an ungrateful portfolio, but it is a portfolio in which emotion, state law, administrative affairs and a piece of history play through each other. That often makes this a rather complicated dossier. Thank you for the good cooperation we have had. We have often crossed swords, but as far as I am concerned always in a fair way. I wish you all the best for the future. I can assure you that there is a life after the ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Van Kappen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group also agrees with this proposal at second reading. However, we still have a number of questions. The constitutional change makes it possible to give the political position of Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba a constitutional basis and regulates the establishment of an electoral college for the Upper Chamber. The Caribbean public bodies are therefore constitutionally anchored and the right to vote for the First Chamber is reserved for residents of Dutch nationality. On this last point, more than a year ago, we had a debate in this House on the novella, which at that time provided for the elimination of a democratic deficit. Today's debate takes place six weeks after Hurricane Irma did his devastating work on Saint-Maarten, Saba and Saint-Eustatius. My group is very sympathetic to our fellow countrymen on the Upper Winds. The damage is enormous, especially on Saint Martin. Many lost their homes. Much infrastructure has been destroyed and the damage to nature is unprecedented. Fortunately, aid from the European Netherlands quickly got underway. The reconstruction challenge defies our imagination. The consequences of the disaster, including in social and cultural terms, will continue to be felt for a long time. Many investments are needed to help the islands get back on their feet economically and give people hope and hope again. This requires generous solidarity on our part. It is a good thing that the European Commission too, as it turned out two weeks ago, is prepared to provide financial support to Saint Martin. The Minister kept the First Chamber informed of the dramatic developments on the Upper Winds from the beginning of the disaster. Although it is not the subject of today's debate, I do realize that my group would appreciate briefly hearing from the Minister what his appreciation of the situation is and what bottlenecks he is experiencing. My group was shocked by the controversy that arose last week between the Minister and the Government of Saint Martin about the framework conditions of the Dutch contribution to reconstruction. I'm going back to the bill now. I'll start with the electoral college for the First Chamber. The amendment of the Constitution requires an implementing law which will make this College more practical for the BES islands. My group awaits that proposal. In recent years, the Christian Union Group has stressed the need for clear and substantiated minimum standards for an acceptable standard of living for the Caribbean Netherlands. Mr Van Kappen already mentioned this. The cost of living, food, energy, water and transport is certainly not small, especially when we look at island incomes. The Spies Committee has devoted considerable consideration to this. Together with many other groups, we have had to work hard to get the cabinet to join us on these minimum standards. The motion that requested it received the support of almost all parties in the Supreme Court. However, the outcome is lean. What's in store is a research pathway. The standards themselves are being transferred to the new cabinet. Here the Minister and his colleague, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, have made little progress. There is no assessment of an equivalent standard of living for residents of the European Netherlands and Caribbean Netherlands. That is precisely when we are going to lay down the constitutional basis of Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius as public bodies through this bill. In this light, my group is asking for a brief explanation of Article 132a (4), which refers to special circumstances which make Caribbean public bodies 'essentially distinguish themselves from the European part of the Netherlands'. This is the so-called differentiation clause, which has just passed. Can the Minister explain in detail this article, also in view of the debate on what is now an acceptable social minimum in the BES islands? Does he also wish to include the mentioned motion of June last year, broadly shared by the First Chamber, on this issue? What exactly is the policy added value of this article? Certainly, the Netherlands and the Caribbean differ in many respects. But the final question is whether and to what extent these differences justify the distinction in standard of living and social minimum and derived government measures. In other words, how much differentiation is acceptable within what is one country after all, even if there is more than 7,000 kilometres between the two parts of the country? The article does make it clear that the European Netherlands is obliged to exercise legislative restraint. My group would like to know whether, in the Minister's view, this has been achieved in the period from 10-10. My group looks forward to the Minister's answers. We also thank him for his input into the debates in this house on the kingdom relations in the past cabinet period. We wish him all the good for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you very much, Mr Ester. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u24	Mr President, thank you. At the end of the day, as outgoing minister, we will discuss a second reading amendment of the Constitution in this Chamber: it is not an everyday phenomenon. In any case, it is a good reason to thank the Minister for his commitment and wish him well for his next phase of life. In this specific case, we also thank the Minister for having finally, after all ifs and buts, been persuaded by the Chamber that there had to be a fundamental and constitutionally correct solution to allow the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands with Dutch nationality to participate in the elections to the First Chamber. This brings us, seven years and two weeks after that famous 10-10-10, to a constitutional anchoring of the position of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius in the Dutch state system. It is not a definitive position, as has already been said, because the interpretation and colouring can take different forms. The islands also keep the space to choose a different relationship with the Netherlands. In any case, it is an acknowledgement that it is a position of its own, which is different from that of Vlieland and Emmeloord. That, and therefore also the voice of the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands in the Senate elections, was a matter of honour for this Chamber. We therefore welcome the proposal that we are discussing at second reading today. I can be brief on the proposal sec. The most urgent questions in this post-Irma era are also of a very different order. We sympathize, and we know our part of the responsibility for reconstruction. This embedding of the public bodies in the Constitution is an important recognition of the new political relations and of the lasting connection with the Caribbean Netherlands, while leaving room for customisation. In fact, it allows the islands to be protected from rules and structures which are self-evident in the European Netherlands but which would prove to be unworkable there. That is at the heart of the principle of differentiation, which was already included in the Statute of the Kingdom and which is now rightly being transferred to the Constitution for the Netherlands. That's where it's more appropriate. So everybody's happy? A festive apotheosis of the successful ministry? Fanfares and salsa nights because it's finally settled? I wish. In the Caribbean Netherlands, there are many fears that this constitutional change will make political arbitrariness a norm. This concerns in particular Article 132a (4). These public bodies may be regulated and other specific measures taken in view of the particular circumstances which make these public bodies substantially different from the European part of the Netherlands. This principle of differentiation was even more detailed and specific in the Statute: "These islands may be regulated and other specific measures taken in view of economic and social conditions, their remoteness from the European part of the Netherlands, their insularity, small size and size, geographical conditions, climate and other factors which make them substantially different from the European part of the Netherlands." All these much more concrete criteria are summarized in the new wording in the words "special circumstances," and that is where the concerns arise. Everyone understands that the houses on Saint Eustatius do not need the same insulation as those in Klazienaveen, and that speed checks on highways on Saba make little sense, because there are no highways. In the evaluation of the Spies Committee and in the idea of legislative restraint, such things are also expressed: please do not impose unnecessary rules on the islands. But in the Caribbean Netherlands there is a very different feeling in many people, namely that this wording mainly means that one cannot claim the same rights as residents of the European Netherlands. It is not everyone's feeling there, but it is alive that Article 132a (4) means that Article 1 of the Constitution is excluded from them. And fair is fair, the government has made a little bit of a difference. That is why so much has been asked about the meaning of the words 'a level of provision acceptable in the Netherlands'. Great progress has been made in the field of education. This also applies to public health, although it remains problematic that the VWS Minister has never really wanted to take into account the fact that the health insurance system operates in a totally different way and there is no supplementary insurance. But, for example, in the case of infrastructure, the backlogs have never been properly eliminated and in the case of social security, the Secretary of State has done everything in his power to carry out an investigation into a minimum of living beyond the limit of its term. We therefore wish the inhabitants of Drenthe strength, but that aside. What matters is that the nature of the differentiation between the European and the Caribbean Netherlands has not been defined. So what are the special circumstances which make these public bodies substantially different from the European part of the Netherlands? This was discussed in the House of Representatives and the Minister was and is apparently reluctant to give away too much on that point. However, I would like to ask the Minister whether'special circumstances' mean the same thing as defined in the Staff Regulations as 'economic and social conditions, remoteness, insularity, small size and size, geographical conditions, climate and other factors'. More specifically, I would like to know whether these particular circumstances are intended to protect public bodies from unworkable regulation or to exclude them from the level of provision acceptable in the Netherlands. Because everyone understands that roads, care facilities and even pensions there cannot be identical to those of here, but no one understands that in the safety net facilities, such as the understand, there are so many holes that you go through it with a death blow when you get into that situation. And no one understands that social liberal rulers have trained so much in setting the minimum standard of living. In other words, my group is in agreement with this proposal for a Constitution, but it would like to hear explicitly from the Minister that this terminology does not mean that the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands have less rights to basic social, medical and economic services, etc. If I may address the Minister directly: please do not create any ambiguity about this, but do good on your ministerial deathbed and let your last words be that the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands can count on an acceptable level of provision in the Netherlands and that is the criterion for interpreting the differentiation clause. As a co-constitutionalist, we have a duty to clarify that point. We look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I too would like to thank the Minister for the efforts he has made. Especially recently, it is clear that the Kingdom is bigger than the Netherlands alone. A terrible hurricane kept house on Saba, Statia and Saint Martin. The Minister has dealt with this thoroughly and I thank him for that. I therefore wish the inhabitants of these islands every strength in their recovery. But, Mr President, this is the last time we will speak to this minister in this Chamber. It is about the amendment of the Constitution which allows residents of Saba, Sint-Eustatius and Bonaire to exercise their influence over the choice of the First Chamber. Our rule is that Dutch people can vote for the city council, for water boards, Provincial States, the Lower House, the European Parliament and in some cases also for administrative colleges or district councils. Non-Dutch people are not allowed to vote for national parliaments such as the Lower House. Nor do they elect any Provincial State Members, who vote again for members of this Parliament, the Upper House, a few months after their election. In the Caribbean Netherlands there is still some work to be done. On Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius we are dealing with island councils. If I had to make a comparison, it would be with the city council. Non-Dutch citizens may also vote for that council, provided that they have a residence permit and stay in the Netherlands for at least five years. Since 10 October 2010, these islands have become a public body. The Dutch residents there must also be able to cast their vote and their influence, however limited, because we are talking about a small 25,000 inhabitants who can exercise their influence on the composition of the Upper Chamber. How to do that now? Since non-Dutch can also vote on the island council, you cannot hand it one-on-one to that council, the island council. Well, well, the solution is actually a bit weirdly chosen: an electoral college. We're gonna set up a college to solve that problem. A college on which only Dutch people may vote, whose members then vote for the Upper House. Let me put it first: I also do not know a better solution and I am sure the Minister will be able to say that the SP will support this bill. At a later date, we will have to look at how we are going to shape this. Is that supposed to be with coloured ballot papers or some other way? In any case, we have been assured that people do not have to go twice to the ballot box, because the elections for MEPs in the Netherlands are not so popular that you should ask them to do so. I wish the Minister or his successor a great deal of wisdom in this regard. Mr President, while we are here to talk about the Caribbean Netherlands, I must say something. We do not often discuss the BES islands or Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and Aruba, while they do have ties with the Netherlands and the Netherlands. The difference between the islands is that they are either an independent country within the Kingdom of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten.. or a special public body are Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius.. thus a kind of municipality of the Netherlands. On October 10, 2010, our Kingdom was thus designed. This classification has given rise to certain expectations among the inhabitants there. People on the BES Islands thought: "We are now residents of a special public body, a kind of municipality, so we are going to have the same rules as the people in the European part." But they came out of it deceived. For many, many people, the standard of living is far below par. When we spoke in June 2016, I discussed this extensively. The situation was that a family with two children a month needed at least $2863 for the basic necessities. The minimum wage was $827, and the benefit was still well below that. Almost this entire Chamber then called on you to get started with it, and only the PVV voted against it. Since then, so for almost a year and a half, in the opinion of the SP little, far too little, has happened. We quite rightly believe that residents of the Netherlands are entitled to equal treatment. It is not for nothing the first article of our Constitution. That is why the Dutch on the BES islands should also have an influence on the composition of the Upper House. But then we will also have to ensure that their basic social rights are in line with those of all the Dutch, and that is where things are still not going well. So we ask these Dutch people to go to the ballot box to exercise their right to vote, but at the same time we do not allow them to claim a social minimum. Does the Minister agree that we are still not delivering to the inhabitants of the BES islands on this point? The Secretary of State for Social Affairs insists that the social minimum remains linked to the minimum wage; that wage which I showed at the time that it is far too little at all to make ends meet. The Secretary of State kept saying that work should pay off. I agree with her on that last point. I will be the last to fight that; honest work must be paid fairly. You should be able to feed your children and send them to school. And for that, the minimum wage is just way too low. I also believe, and I have heard the Secretary of State say this, that those who do not come to work must be able to have a decent life. For this we need to know what a social minimum should be in the BES islands. With a lot of pushing and pulling, the Secretary of State promised that an investigation would come. We can expect that research next year. I believe that we are almost a year and a half ahead of us and we still have to look forward to an investigation, and that the government is shielding by increasing the under stand and child benefit. Because although I welcome the gesture of course, a child can see that it is far from enough. The under stand went from $262 a month to $327 a month. The child benefit was increased, but it was a few tens. Older people didn't get a penny on it. Mr. Chairman. The day after tomorrow, Raymond Knops is reportedly acting as Secretary of State for Antillean Affairs. So next year we are going to talk to him about the social minimum research. The people there, who cannot make ends meet, who must send their children to bed hungry, who cannot pay the electricity bill, must wait all this time. I would urge the outgoing minister to bring this dossier to the attention of his successor. I hope to have to deal with a secretary of state who will not tolerate this and get to work quickly. He'll find the SP by his side. I am sorry that this Minister has missed that opportunity. Despite the fact that I have regularly, once again, criticized the determination and strength of the Minister and his colleague for Social Affairs, I wish them both well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u27	Thank you, Mrs Meijer. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u28	Thank you, Mr President. We are now debating this proposal at second reading and after it has been adopted here at first reading, not much has really changed. The proposal does not really lead to changes either, because the public bodies of the Caribbean Netherlands have already been established on the basis of the Staff Regulations, so this is, in fact, only an alternative alternative way of dealing with this. Only the establishment of an electoral college to make it possible for the Caribbean islands to be able to influence the composition of the First Chamber is additional, and therefore a highly necessary addition to what has been done so far. There is therefore no reason to vote against this constitutional amendment now, although there are constant developments that give rise to new questions. Bonaire's not very politically stable. Saint-Eustatius lacks administrative power, but wants to do things explicitly in his own way, preferably as a country and not as a public body. And Saba is doing very well, but the need for more own room for manoeuvre is constantly felt there too, although the question remains there within the existing constitutional framework. In any case, this constitutional change does not determine which islands will be public bodies; this is determined by a separate law. The feeling seems to live on all three islands.Others have also mentioned this afternoon several times that the special position of public body, with the possibility to deviate from what applies in a real municipality, is too little used to provide space for one's own circumstances and the more limited scale and possibilities, and too much is used to keep the hand on the cut in the social field and treat the residents as second-class Dutch. The question arises as to whether it would not have been better to turn the islands into real municipalities with all the rights, and then to make special exceptions where our regulations cannot be applied. And then up there perhaps a mini-province or public body that can carry out some necessary steering and controlling tasks. Of course, it doesn't make sense to want to turn the whole thing upside down right now, but wouldn't that have been better after all? And wouldn't it be better, for example, to act more in this way, in the social domain, at least now? Steering and control now comes from the various ministries, supplemented of course from the Dutch Caribbean Office and the national representative. Fortunately, the new government programme opts for a clearer coordinating role for BZK, but this probably remains difficult if it is to be determined by department what should and should not be aligned with the situation in the European Netherlands. How does the Minister see that, on the basis of his experience so far? As far as the whole of the Kingdom is concerned, but this is, of course, outside the scope of the present legislative proposal, the coherence seems to be growing somewhat. Hurricane Irma has increased the sense of solidarity, I think, in all parts of the world, although the consequences of this seem to be the result of contrasts and quarrels. But even before the hurricane, there seemed to be a certain tendency to return to greater cooperation between the countries. It seems to me that the Dutch Government should deal with this as positively as possible. The fact that, for example, between Saint-Eustatius and Saba on the one hand and Saint-Maarten on the other hand runs a full state border in economic terms, which leads to additional costs in crossing this border and, for example, to double VAT, is really awesome within one Kingdom. So there is no reason to vote against this bill now, but there is still plenty to improve. For the new government, because this minister has been doing his best for a long time. He has paid a lot of attention to and shown a great deal of commitment to the Kingdom as a whole, and often with good consequences, although it has also produced evil faces. I am very grateful to him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u29	Thank you very much, Mr Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch saying goodbye to the overseas territories, including Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, is and remains the starting point for the PVV. Alternatives must remain possible, such as full sovereignty of these islands. From that perspective, there is no need for a new political position for the BES islands by means of a constitutional change in our view either. For this reason, the PVV has previously voted against the initial declaration proposal in both Lower House and Upper Chamber. However, the legislative proposal before us today at second reading also contains an amendment which was made by means of a novella. This amendment is aimed at preventing residents of the BES islands who are not nationals of the Netherlands from exercising influence over the composition of the Upper Chamber. Our parliament should only be elected by Dutch citizens, both directly and indirectly. For the PVV Group, Dutch citizenship remains a guiding criterion in the exercise of influence on the composition of the First Chamber. We therefore believe that this amended part of the legislative proposal is important. Without prejudice to our aforementioned objections to the broader political context of the initial legislative proposal, the provision on Dutch citizenship is of decisive importance to vote in favour of this bill as a PVV group. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his cooperation in recent years. We also wish him much good in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Van Hattem. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Are you able to answer directly? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u32	Thank you, Madam President. It is a pleasure and an honour for me, as far as I can see, to hold the debate here in the First Chamber as a final act towards Parliament, and on such an important subject as an amendment to the Constitution. I have checked this: I think that this cabinet has broken a number of records mainly because of the long duration of the formation. One is that a constitutional amendment at first and second reading could be defended here in the Chamber by the same executives from the same cabinet. As far as I can tell, that has not happened before in the last few decades. So we can add that to the row records. Thank you for the broad support for the proposal. Thank you, moreover, for the commitment and the debate we have had on an aspect that some of you have also addressed. I'll leave that for now for what it is. Perhaps it is good to start my answer by saying that, as you know, the States-General have two Chambers: the directly elected parliament and the First Chamber directly elected by members of Provincial States. People sometimes say, in short, that they were indirectly chosen. But the latter is, in fact, not entirely true, I say since we are exactly here. There are two reasons why that is not entirely true. Firstly, members of Provincial States freely cast their votes. There are also members of Provincial States who have been elected in the province for a party that does not have a candidate for the Upper House. There are also people who have voted for a different party than the party for which they are in Provincial States. I'm not saying that's desirable, but it's possible. There are also sometimes people who have made a mistake in casting their votes, resulting in a different composition of the Upper Chamber. So it's really an election. There is another reason why I would like to stress in this context why it is not in fact an indirect election by the Dutch. The law expressly assumes that only resident of the twelve provinces have the right to vote for Provincial States and thus influence the composition of the First Chamber, while we know that there are about 800,000 Dutch people who do not live in a province because they live abroad. They do not therefore have the right to vote for any Provincial States and therefore have no influence on the composition of the Upper Chamber. So I'm not saying it's right or wrong, but that's the order we know it now. Apparently, our constitution accepts that. Mr Sini has just said that every Dutch citizen has the right to influence the composition of the First Chamber, but according to the Constitution as we know it now, that is in any case not entirely the case, because all those people who freely choose to live in Belgium or wherever and therefore are not residents of a province that are 800,000 as far as I know have no influence on the composition of the First Chamber. I'll leave it for a while, but that's actually the case. However, the composition of the First Chamber is influenced by people living in a province. So everyone who lives in the European Netherlands has that. In line with that, it is of course strange that people who also live in the Netherlands, but in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands, would not have that influence. That is what the constitutional change that is now before us is about. What the present Constitutional Amendment proposal does is: it actually puts the local electoral college on the Caribbean in the same position as Provincial States. They have the right to vote for the composition of the First Chamber, which means that all Dutch residents living in the Netherlands, whether they are European or Caribbean, have an influence on the composition of the Senate. Moreover, the amendment of the Constitution does a little more: many other rights conferred by the Constitution on municipalities are also laid down in the Constitution for public bodies. I refer to the fact that there is a directly elected parliament and the establishment of autonomy and co-government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u33	I was also thinking of your statement in response to the debate in the House of Representatives when you said that every people has the right to vote for their own parliament. Parliament is the First and Second Chambers. This means, therefore, that there may be a need to restore an omission in this area, namely that people abroad should also be able to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u34	It would not be appropriate for me to regard this as an omission, because then I should have done something about it. It is, however, a good thing that we are aware that we live in a hybrid system, in which......................................................................................................................................................................................... If I redesigned it, I could imagine that we would invent some form of involvement of people abroad in the creation of the First Chamber, as we send people abroad a electoral card for the House of Representatives. But that is not the proposal before us. Apparently, that's intrigued by the Constitutionalist. That is much bigger beer than the issue we are talking about here. Then all of a sudden it's about big numbers. Speaking of numbers, the change we are making now has great symbolic value, because it allows all people living in the Netherlands to influence the composition of the First Chamber in the same way and on the same basis. But because there are not so many people living in the Caribbean Netherlands, it is all put together so that if all those people there would vote for the same party, that one tenth seat would be in the Upper Chamber. Of course, they don't all vote for the same party, because then you wouldn't need elections either. Materially, the composition of the First Chamber will not change very much as a result of this constitutional change, but of course it is the principle, as has been pointed out by the various Members. The proposal is that there should be an electoral college. It has already been pointed out by several Members that the Constitution is now anchored in order to set it up and that this will have to be done under ordinary legislation. As you know, a legislative proposal has now been submitted to the House of Representatives. I waited until the first reading of the amendment of the Constitution had been dealt with by the two chambers. When it turned out to have been adopted, we set it in motion, so that the momentum can continue and one will be able to cast a vote in 2019 that also affects the composition of the First Chamber. I do not think we should discuss it in detail now, but some of you asked: as you also know, the idea is indeed to do it in parallel with the island council elections, so that there is as little fuss as possible and it happens by island. Since the island council on Saba and Statia consists of five people and on Bonaire nine people, it may well be that the composition of the island council and that of the electoral college do not differ substantially. Anyway, that'll have to prove it. In this way it can be filled with a minimum of cost and bureaucracy. Anyway, that law is already before the House of Representatives and will hopefully soon be able to be defended here in the House of Lords by my successor. I will discuss two more issues and then briefly see if there are any remaining questions. I would also like to pay particular attention to the differentiation and right of self-determination of each of the islands. Several speakers have said something about this and this is important in the context of this constitutional change. First of all, the differentiation clause. In fact, nothing new is happening, as it is already in the Statute and is now being incorporated into the Constitution. In fact, this was already provided for in the Statute, which states that this provision will be deleted from the Statute as soon as it is incorporated into the Constitution. That is what will happen now, if your Chamber accepts this proposal at once. Indeed, the wording is somewhat shorter than that in the Statute, and this was done on the advice of the Council of State. It is in some more general terms, without mentioning the specific factors or circumstances. This is better in line with the austerity of the Constitution, but it does not seek to exclude items listed in the Statute now. They remain equally potentially an interpretation of what is now referred to in general terms as a specific factor or circumstance. I would like to make it quite clear that Mr Ganzevoort asked from the outset that the level of provision in the Caribbean Netherlands should be brought to a level acceptable to the Netherlands. There must be no misunderstanding about this, and it must also be clear that this provision, 142a (4), does not, of course, affect anything in any way that has also been emphasised by several speakers to the provisions of Article 1 of the Constitution. An unjustified distinction must never be made on any ground. That needs to be completely clear. I would like to leave it at that. I am tempted by several speakers to go into the discussion on specific aspects of this differentiation and what that means, for example, for defining the minimum social and other provisions, but first of all I am outside the scope of the current constitutional treatment, and then I too am rather soon outgoing on that point and it is not appropriate for me to give further details and make further commitments to your Chamber, other than those already done by my colleague in Social Affairs, for example, that research has been started on this issue. That is happening now, and Mr Ester stressed very strongly that he was committed to this issue. It's on the record. I have looked it up for a while, but in the new cabinet, in which the Christian Union also plays a role, that portfolio has also been invested, so I assume that the successors to that portfolio will continue with the results of that investigation initiated by Klijnsma. I do not want to go into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u35	That seems to me to be a very correct position. I welcome the clarity with which the Minister says: firstly, that new definition in the Constitution is not materially different from the one contained in the Statute. I think that's important for constitutional interpretation. Secondly, the acceptable level of provision is the starting point for its reading. I also understand that he does not want to go into the concrete examples. In any case, my contribution was no more than an example. But what comes out of it, and I think that is important for the interpretation of the text of the Constitution and, in that sense, relevant in this debate, is how we now know when this differentiation will or will not be applied correctly. This means that we are looking for some explanation of what the criteria are for applying that principle of differentiation. That was different from saying: give us the concrete examples of policies a, b or c. In what way do we now arrive at an explanation of how this differentiation should function?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u36	I understand the question, but I do not think that you can answer it differently than by going into the content of the frameworks that you would like to put. The text now before us speaks in general terms. That is what is under discussion today. Any further explanation in which you say: in this area it listens more closely than in that area or this area should never fall under the differentiation clause and that area does, is always a policy-wise answer. And I don't think that suits me anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u37	I understand that, but I don't know if it's entirely true that it's always a policy-rich answer. The Constitution is, of course, also intended to specify a number of frameworks which must then be implemented in ordinary legislation and implemented in policy. This raises the question of who decides when it is an acceptable level of provision or an adequate application. Is that something we're only doing here, or is that something the boards should be heard in? That too is a bit of explanation, more procedural than pure content, which would help. So I'm looking a little bit. I note that there are fears, concerns and experiences in the Caribbean Netherlands, which say: this opens the door to randomness. I don't think it's meant to be. That's not how I hear it from the Minister. But perhaps we can give some space and recognition to that, by looking at what we can do. Clarify what is meant, for example by process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u38	I've heard that reaction. I have therefore first emphasised that it is no different than moving the same differentiation of the underlying document, the Statute, to the Constitution. Then, of course, the ordinary legislator is always there when it is completed. So there are Second and First Chambers in full. Thirdly, we regularly have the so-called CN-table, where we are also in conversation with people from the Caribbean Netherlands to receive their signals. That is also the place where we can hear where a differentiation is desirable or not. You all know the examples about postal codes, which are said on Saba: that's actually a bit of bullshit, because we only have one way out of here, so what do you do? But there are also, of course, reverse examples, where people say: yes, now we would really like the difference with the European Netherlands to be smaller. We have no choice but to hear that and ultimately take decisions on it through the democratic process of the Second and First Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u39	The Minister knows that when I go to the interrupting microphone, that usually means I disagree with him. But in this case, I very much agree with him. I would like to emphasise that, also in order to avoid a second deadline. This is about the revision of the Constitution, about the definition of differentiation. The framework that GroenLinks, Mr Ganzevoort, is looking for is actually in Article 1. There must be no arbitrariness, no, that principle is also intended precisely to protect Article 1 of the Constitution. That is the constitutional framework. It is then up to implementing legislation and also policies to complete this. I very much agree with the Minister, apart from his missionary status, that you should not mix the provisions and the handling of the Constitution's provisions with implementing legislation, with policies. That is a very different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u40	Thanks for the support. In that respect, we are in complete agreement. As regards the comments made by the various public bodies, too, I would like to say a few words about the link between what is before us and the right of self-determination of former colonies. I say this because the reaction came from the political government of Saint-Eustatius in particular: we have our hesitations about now investing the public body in the Constitution because we have the ambition to take a looser relationship, so perhaps not to be a public body of the country of the Netherlands or anything else. I want to say a few things about this. Firstly, none of the islands is, of course, mentioned in particular in the Constitution. So those two things are separate. We are now creating the context, the constitutional anchor for the public bodies. That is not to say that each of those public bodies should remain forever. If at some point one had the explicit, persistent and popular desire to move to a different relationship, this constitutional change would not prevent it. For the rest, I would like to add the following. The other link we know in the Kingdom is that of an autonomous country in the Kingdom. We have grown since 10-10-10 to the situation where there is no budget support from the Netherlands to the autonomous countries of the Kingdom. So if you go on the budget of Curaçao, Aruba or Sint-Maarten looking for income from the Netherlands, it says €0. Whereas if you calculate it for the Caribbean Netherlands, and consider all departments together and deduct from it what one pays by one's own taxes and taxes on the spot, so if you look at the balance purely, from the European Dutch budget about €10,000 per head of the population goes to the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands. So that's a significant contribution. That's what I'm supposed to do. That is essential, because the people there are on average poorer than the people here and there are bigger problems to solve. But if we go from Aruba and Curaçao to Bonaire, we go from two islands where Dutch budget support is €0 to an island where per capita €10,000 per year goes in the form of care, education, facilities, infrastructure. I hope that everyone in the future will continue to realise that there are important differences and that it can also have great advantages in having that status. I'm moving on, because I see the chairman nodding too. There was another question from Mr Sini about the cost of living. That is the theme in which we have put a lot of energy into UNICEF in recent times. Topics we have been working on in recent years include children's rights, children's rights education, participation, information on positive education and combating violence in education. In recent years important steps have also been taken in the socio-economic field through the introduction of child benefit, the significant increase in Saba and Saint-Eustatius benefits and minimum legal wage, as well as additional money for children and poverty and infrastructure resources. But we're not there yet. I am not going to interfere, but I think that a future cabinet can take a step forward in a number of areas. In fact, I have already responded to Mr Ester's question about what will happen to the research he also requested on the minimum standard of living. I just saw your impatience, Mr. Chairman. So I actually wanted to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u41	Just so we're clear of all the misunderstandings, I wasn't at all impatient. You nodded and I nodded back. That's how it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u42	Oh, you know, I'll take my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u43	Within certain limits, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u44	Thank you for the warm words that have been said about the sympathy with the people on the Upper Winds after Hurricane Irma. I did not want to discuss this subject on this occasion, because this is not the case, but it is good to know that everyone is so involved. We all went there, from Aruba, from Curaçao and from the Netherlands, massively to help. I've seen it, too. Volunteers, Red Cross employees, just people who did it in their spare time, came from Aruba to help people, water and provide support. But also the Dutch army, the police and other organizations from here. All this has happened without any paperwork. The Charles Doorman still sails back and forth with goods. You don't know what you see: a boat full of police cars, shovelers, trucks. We're making that addition now, of course, in retrospect. At least tens of millions have been taken. All this has happened without any condition. I have a great deal of respect for all those people, and I have been able to visit them there too, who have been incredibly hard at work and are still helping people on the ground. We are now, of course, moving from the emergency phase to the reconstruction phase, if it is right. I would like to leave it at that for now on this occasion. Mr Ten Hoeve was right to point out that recording the public body now does not mean that anyone who is now should remain so at all times. Those two things are separate. He asked me to say something about what was in the coalition agreement on coordination. I actually intended never to say anything about what is in the coalition agreement again, even if I left immediately, but let me say the following. Strengthening coordination has also been my objective in recent years. Among my predecessors, the tendency was very strong, and that was understandable to me, to say: each of the departments has to take responsibility, so education is really the Minister of Education, also in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. You can't broadcast all the messages at once. So at first that was the main message, but that led to a lot of administrative crowds and people getting in the way of each other. We have put an end to this at some point and said: no, actually, the Home Office has to take responsibility for ensuring that there is as little administrative pressure as possible and that there is a clear letterbox, without prejudice to the fact that, ultimately, the person responsible for education at Bonaire, if it is at ministerial level, is the Minister of Education and not the Minister for Education. So we have already invested heavily in this by means of closed multi-annual programmes with public bodies and through state-wide coordination through a high-level CN-table. In the short term, of course, the committee's report will look specifically at the situation on Saint-Eustatius. I assume you will be informed of this by my successor. Let me say that I can imagine that this line will continue in the future. I think that's a sensible line. If I may take it so generally, I am not going to go beyond my constitutional shores. To be honest, I thought I had answered all the specific questions in my direction. Finally, perhaps, because, yes, it does indeed suit me to thank the Chamber very much for the good cooperation and the great commitment. I have sometimes pointed out that the involvement of the First Chamber in the kingdom portfolio sometimes seems more intense than that of the House of Representatives. I have also had a regular exchange of views with the Committee on Kingdom Relations, not only in plenary, because it is now a constitutional basis. I've always appreciated the involvement. I would like to thank all the Members, including the chairman of the committee, for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u45	Thank you. We have arrived at the second term of office. Mr. De Graaf, you had given up one minute with a question mark; that has become zero. Mrs. Van Bijsterveld zero. Mr. Sini was zero. Mr. Van Kappen? A minute? Zero. Mr. Ester was zero. Mr. Ganzevoort? A minute? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u46	Mr. Chairman. One minute to thank the Minister once again for the clarity with which he clarified the points surrounding these particular circumstances. I disagreed with Mr De Graaf when he said after me in an interruption to the Minister that now was not the time to talk about it. Well, now is the time. I disagree with him that, in this case, you should not discuss the clarification of the concepts contained in this bill. Implementation is indeed another issue, but I think we will still have the discussion about how it works and what it means. That would lend itself to this. But that's how they do it: differences of opinion are part of it. We've had it with this minister. But despite that, we have always noticed in all the debates in all the relevant areas that there is a shared intention of how we deal with the Caribbean part of our country and of our Kingdom, what role we have to play in it and how we can ensure that it becomes something very beautiful in the future. His future continues, ours continues here and the Caribbean Netherlands will certainly continue. It's gonna be nice again. Thanks for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I give the floor to Mrs Meijer. Also zero. Mr Ten Hoeve? Also zero. Mr. Van Hattem? Also zero. Then I give the opportunity to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his second term. It's going really fast in here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u48	Mr. Chairman. It would be rude not to reply if the chairman of the Committee on Kingdom Relations had spoken in the second term. I would like to confirm the thanks once again. I very much appreciate the fact that there is now, as it should be, universal support for this constitutional change. I wish everyone who will be working on this in the future, and first of all the people in the Caribbean Netherlands, every success. I wish you all much wisdom in the common endeavour to make people's lives better. That's what you're in politics for. You cannot make the whole world your own concern, but I think it is good and it also represents value for the Netherlands, for those who want to speak in those terms, that we feel a little extra responsibility for that little part of the world that lies in the Caribbean. I hope that we will be able to do a lot of good work there in the coming years. I wish you every success and wisdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u50	I'm here to deal with the bill. Since this legislative proposal concerns a second reading of a constitutional amendment, Article 137 (4) of the Constitution requires a vote and the legislative proposal can only be adopted by at least two thirds of the votes cast. I propose to vote on the bill next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-10-24-eerstekamer-5.u51	I understand that Mr De Graaf is about to hug the Minister. Mr. De Graaf, you'll have to wait. I would like to thank the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations for his commitment, not just today but in a series of years. It is the last time he is here as Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I wish him a very good future. Minister, thank you for your commitment.
