ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. This Minister will agree with me that freedom of expression is a foundation on which parliamentary democracy rests. Mayors in the big cities have the difficult task of offering as many opportunities as possible for as many expressions as possible, even if you don't agree anymore and even if you don't like the type of people you want to demonstrate. I have been here before with questions about Joanna, who had the sign saying "I am not a subject," about the anti-Wilder protesters who did not want resistance spray and about the anti-Black Piet protesters. In all these cases, it turned out that people had been picked up by mistake and later got excuses. We also talked with Opstelten about the flower budget that should be increased by the number of arrests in which people got flowers afterwards. Now radio program Argos has done a little research on Pegidademonstrants and anti-Pegidademonstrants. This shows that about 210 people were arrested in the demonstrations that watched it, namely 200 on the left and 10 on the right. Of those 210 people, a couple of them got a fine. I have the following questions for the Minister. Does this Minister agree that freedom of expression cannot be used as a means of blackmail? Does he also think that preemptive treatment is not a means? Otherwise, it almost looks like a demonstration permit. With GroenLinks, does he think it should be looked at carefully? Argos is doing his best, but shouldn't the WODC, for example, have to map carefully whether this tone is in there and so we get a kind of erosion of freedom of speech in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. As a result of a radio broadcast, Mrs Van Tongeren calls for attention to be paid to the freedom of demonstration. I agree with her that a free society also includes the right to demonstrate. This is laid down in the Constitution and also in the Public Events Act, which sets out precisely the criteria on which restrictions can be imposed. There must be genuinely urgent reasons in the context of health, road safety or the prevention of disorder. It is always the consideration of the local authority, i.e. the mayor and the police under his authority, to assess whether this is the case with a specific application for a demonstration or a demonstration for which permission has been granted. If the mayor comes to that conclusion, he is entitled to use the resources he has. Those affected, those who demonstrate or wish to demonstrate, may then lodge a complaint with the police or the Ombudsman. It is not my image, as Mrs Van Tongeren says, that this is being used unevenly by mayors. It is true that my predecessor, together with the Minister of the Interior, has already commissioned an investigation into the application of the Public Events Act. That research was done by the University of Groningen. Last month, the outcome of that inquiry was sent to the Chamber and it was also promised that on this basis a practical handout will be made for mayors on the practical application of the Public Events Act, so that the right to demonstrate can indeed be exercised freely in the Netherlands, but where that is really necessary the mayor can also act to prevent abuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Could the Minister then explain what the practical manual contains a clear instruction about when someone can be removed from the scene? In my view, the Constitution does not allow this at all. There is no permit requirement, in the sense that you can only demonstrate if you have a permit. And that's what it's starting to look like. I cannot find an answer in that report either as regards the balance of the Left and the 210 people whose homes almost 200 were sent home without persecution. Can the Minister give me a hand with how this case is already answered by the possible hand-off to the mayors?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	It is good to ask for permission for a demonstration because the mayor who is ultimately responsible for public order can then consider all interests and then grant permission. Mrs van Tongeren is right when she says that even if there is no permit, that does not mean that demonstration is prohibited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	It is important, however, that a mayor can guard public order in the Netherlands. Hence, the Public Events Act underlines this important fundamental right. You are free to demonstrate in the Netherlands. We wouldn't have it any other way. However, the law also states that a mayor may take additional measures in the context of health or public policy. Do I see any reason to do an additional investigation? No, because an investigation has just been done. Mrs Van Tongeren is not here yet. On the basis of that investigation, the hand-out is now being made. In Amsterdam, the municipality where there might be the most experience of demonstrating alongside The Hague, good experiences have already been gained with such a balancing framework. Based on the lessons of Amsterdam and with the input of the police and other municipalities, the colleague of Home Affairs is now working out the hand-out. It will indeed address questions such as how to deal with permits, how to deal with demonstrations that have not been authorised but which take place and in which cases a mayor can act in the context of public policy. That's gonna be in the hand-out, but it's not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	I understand that, but I would like to see the facts that have come up for discussion to be included in the presentation. Otherwise, the situation is such that we have an old investigation and new information that may not be reflected in the hand-out. I think it's important that that happens. For example, Joanna was standing alone with her plate. It was removed three times, also the third time at the inauguration when it was fully known who she was. She stood there according to all the rules of art neatly legally demonstrating. One of the big questions that I have is whether we are not very upset about the argument of public order. At the anti-Pegidad demonstration people who still had their banners in their backpack were looking across the canal. The police obviously knew that they were planning to possibly demonstrate. They hadn't gotten the banners out yet, but they got picked up. Then later, after the demonstration was over, they were apologized. I am concerned that this more recent information has not been incorporated into the investigation and will not then be dealt with. Can the Minister reassure me on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	The letter about the investigation was sent to the Chamber over two weeks ago. So it is difficult to see that it is very old. It is explicitly intended that practical experience should be taken into account in the delivery process. This is about maintaining the fundamental right to demonstrate. That's crucial. I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren that everyone has the right to demonsters. I'll find the royal way to apply for a permit for it. At the same time, it must be clear that, if necessary, the mayor can make use of the powers he has in the context of public policy. Both aspects need to be properly addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	You have demonstrations that require a permit. However, you also have a right of expression. I often get complaints from people who have been arrested for using their right of expression, just because they're on the street with a sign. That's not a demonstration. You don't need a permit for that. Very often municipalities and mayors perform and have someone arrested because he doesn't have a permit. You don't need a permit to give your opinion. You don't need a license to stand on the street with a sign. Then how come these people every time I've gotten a lot of examples of them being arrested, put in prison and then apologized, then they're gonna demonstrate again and be arrested again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	The picture is a little more balanced than Mr Van Raak is now describing. It's not like you can't actually demonstrate in the Netherlands. It takes place less than I can remember from the eighties, but there is still extensive demonstration in the Netherlands. Again, that is a fundamental right that no one wants to touch. At the same time, we want a mayor to have tools for maintaining public order and for him to make informed use of it, because fundamental rights are crucial. However, it may well mean that a mayor from the local security point of view and the local public order balance says that a permit has been granted, but that the way things are done makes it necessary to act. Or no authorisation has been granted, which is no reason in itself not to allow a demonstration to go ahead, but the way in which the demonstration is taking place does not appear to be correct. A mayor must have that authority in the context of public policy. In order to give the mayor an additional tool to balance the crucial element of freedom of expression and the crucial element of monitoring public order, we have had the investigation done and now we are making the hand-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	Excuse me, but the Minister goes all the way past my question. He hasn't even had the intention to answer my question yet. The point is that this is not a demonstration...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to interrupt you, because if you continue now, it will count as a second supplementary question. But I think the Minister understands exactly what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Once again, Mr Van Raak presents an image that does not correspond to the facts. I specifically addressed his question: is freedom of expression or speech? Demonstrate crucially? I used both terms, too. It is indeed crucial, but that does not alter the fact that a mayor should also have the opportunity to take measures in the context of public policy. That's what the law says. It is crucial that both elements are given space. In order to do that right, we've had research done and now we're doing the hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Van Raak has a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	I wonder why mayors make so many mistakes. How come mayors don't know the law? I get that. After all, the Minister does not know the law either. In the law and in the rules there is a lot of talk about demonstrations. A demonstration is with several people. You sometimes need permits for that. In addition, rules on public policy and security can be laid down. But you also have freedom of speech. If I stand outside with a sign saying "Minister Blok doesn't know the law and has to get out," then that's not a demonstration. This is a matter of freedom of speech. I don't need a permit for that. That doesn't require any rules either. As a citizen, I expect that I will not be arrested and put in jail and that I will not be threatened with a fine. The police won't be able to tell that I'm wrong. She doesn't have to send me home with apologies. Otherwise, I would stand at the door again with the same sign saying "Minister Blok does not know the law and has to leave" and then I would be arrested again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Van Raak chooses very harsh words when he talks about mayors who are not here. He's plotting that mayors make so many mistakes. I think that's a big deal. Guarding public order is a crucial task, as is ensuring that freedom of expression can be used to the full and that people can demonstrate. Mr Van Raak and I are probably in agreement on that. But to say that mayors on a large scale make mistakes in the balancing of interests... I leave that entirely on Mr Van Raak's behalf. However, we have seen reason to provide further clarification on the basis of research done very recently, in order to make up for that consideration. But the statement that mayors make mistakes on a large scale, I really leave it on Mr Van Raak's behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	I do not think this answer is sufficient either. 210 people have been arrested. Some were just standing by the side of the road with their banner still in their backpack. They weren't doing anything yet and they weren't expressing any opinions. Then there was an apology. I also outline that this is a standing policy. That was Joanna's, that was the resistance spray, and so was the Black Piets. There were people who just wanted to express their opinion on their own. How does this minister see the fact that arrest is used as an order enforcement tool and people are then sent with excuses, and sometimes just getting flowers from the police? Then something really goes wrong on a big scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	Here too, I would like to make a cut between Mrs Van Tongeren's words. It really goes too far to say, on the basis of this radio broadcast, that things are going badly, while fortunately in the Netherlands there is an extensive right of demonstration, which is also widely used. Mrs van Tongeren is undoubtedly right that in practice the powers are sometimes being used in a rather unsuspecting way. Then it is only right that there should be an apology. There is always a complex balance, with a mayor having to estimate in advance: is there a threat to public order here? That is a very serious consideration. To help the mayor in that serious consideration, we've had an investigation done, and now we're doing that hand-off. That's also the smartest thing you can do on the basis of those signals. But we also have to watch out for overboiling use of words. There's no reason for that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	I don't think you can use enough terms to defend freedom of speech. In view of the current developments in other countries, this is a great asset. I interpreted the flower budget in the discussion I had with Minister Opstelten about this as a handy thing: it's easier, smoother, we're just gonna take these people away for a while, and then the whole party goes on effortlessly. This minister should, in the first instance, really stand up for fundamental rights. The Minister probably did not have the opportunity to take up the radio broadcast and all the previous questions, but a mayor said very nicely: I do not like those people either. Those people are on the side where 200 are arrested. From the counter-demonstration on the other hand, ten are being picked up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	Those mayors stand for a complicated balance, and that's why I'm standing up for them. There is no mayor in the Netherlands who does not stand for freedom of expression and the right of demonstration. That mayor is also a public defender. That's quite right. He is therefore faced with the difficult question of how he should act in a specific case. We do not make that assessment simpler by talking here about mayors who are constantly making mistakes or by suggesting one-sided considerations. We can help along the roads I have indicated, but for a mayor, this is a really complicated consideration, which we cannot simply simplify.
