ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Secretary of State for Security and Justice. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. The treatment of the Law on compulsory mental health care has been dragging on in this Chamber for a number of years. In 2009, the bill was submitted by then Minister of Justice Hirsch Ballin. It has a strong connection with other laws for forced care. One must think about people who are forced into prison and people who are forced into care for the disabled and care for the elderly. The Forensic Care Act was adopted in 2012. In 2013, a very comprehensive treatment of the Health and Force Act took place in the Chamber. The treatment had already been discontinued in 2011. The Secretary of State then withdrew the bill with the words "I see it will end up in the Chamber if I continue on this route." The legislative proposal on compulsory ggz is still pending. It hasn't really gotten much clearer during the process. We've had a change to change. It's kind of complicated to understand everything. These are laws on the legal protection of people who, from their vulnerability, namely care, receive forced care. This involves an important treatment. I find it worrying that, along the way, a misguided approach has been taken by using the compulsory ggz Act as a sweetener for mayors, also in view of the confusion of people. In this respect, this legal treatment is a little illustrative of the way in which mental health care is handled: there is a lot of support, abbreviating and changing, and ultimately it does not improve the patient. The bill we're discussing today is important. The field's been waiting a long time. The purpose of the Law is to lay down rules to ensure that, in special situations where it is necessary to oblige a person to care, such care can also be taken into account. In our country, restrictions on freedom are punishable under Article 282 of the Code of Criminal Law. The bill balances on the intersection of the physical integrity of someone, the ability to choose whether or not you get care, and the duty of the government to protect and provide medical care to its citizens if necessary. The application of coercion is a very serious matter and must be avoided as much as possible. There are situations where the application of mandatory care may be necessary, for example to ensure the safety of patients and their environment. The SP supports the thrust of the legislative proposal that the application of coercion should be avoided as much as possible and should be as limited as possible. In the extreme event that forced care is needed and there are no alternatives, mandatory care should be as short as possible. Clear criteria must be laid down for the application of coercion, a good independent test must be carried out and an independent person must look into it as a guarantee. Force may only be applied out of necessity and not out of impotence. For that reason, I have identified the observation measure as the biggest pain of the bill we are discussing today. We are not in favour of people being taken off the streets and then being observed for three days without any legal protection or treatment. The observation measure is actually also improper in this law. This law is based on an ultimatum remedium, the use of forced care if it cannot be otherwise, but the observation measure is called a preventive measure, a measure to be applied as a precautionary measure. That contradicts each other. In addition, the observation measure is not in line with legal protection in our country. The possibility of being arrested for observation without a judge's test is a cross-section of what we are carefully building up in the Law mandatory ggz and of the approach used in the Forensic Care Act. I will come back to the fact that this is not used in the Health and Force Act. I also think that the observation measure will not be effective. I am convinced that the target group which mayors say would like to observe on the basis of that measure will be more out of sight than in view of such an observation measure. Those are people who avoid care, withdraw a little bit and are not yet a threat to public order. How do you test that and how do you measure it? That's hard enough. In recent times it became clear that a majority of the Chamber did not consider the observation measure to be compatible with the law. With the support of the PvdA, D66, the PvdD, 50PLUS, GroenLinks, the PVV and the Christian Union, this amendment has a large majority in this Parliament. In doing so, we can embrace the legislative proposal before us today, because this means a lot for the legal protection of patients and caregivers who run into the fact that people can only be included if forced care is needed. This certainly also responds to the need of the family, who wants to be able to report to be examined whether their related, brother, sister, child, father or mother should be given mandatory care. We welcome the fact that this law puts them in the position of the applicant for an inquiry into compulsory care. There are also concerns. Like the other spokesmen, I have received a huge pile of people from the field, as it is called. In fact, everyone is concerned about legal protection: patients' representation, other interest groups, health care providers and experts are deeply concerned about the law on compulsory ggz and the law on care and coercion. We must take these concerns seriously. Prof. Dute says: "The mandatory ggz law threatens to become more of a problem than a solution." Above all, let us try today to ensure that this law becomes a solution to problems. I would first like to comment on the Health and Force Act, which has been substantially amended through the second letter of amendment and Chapter 2 of the Law on mandatory ggz. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport for attending this debate today. As I said in my introduction, the Health and Force Act has been greatly amended by the Chamber. At first, the scope of the law was: yes, coercion may be applied, but that must be done a little well. The Chamber made that: no, it should not, in principle, unless there really is no other way. There was no longer any question of the institution deciding and anything can happen. The adage is now that freedom restriction is not normal, not even for people who are psychogeriatric dementia or people who live with disabilities in an institution. That must always be avoided. The law was passed in 2013. It's sanding. The Health and Force Act is a recording law and the law requires ggz to be used everywhere. I'm going into several points, but it's actually undesirable that we make that difference. After all, that was one of the reasons why we had all found that the Law on Special Admissions in Psychiatric Hospitals, a Recording Act, was no longer actually of this time. Now we're dealing with the Law of care and coercion, which is another recording law. Where people need forced care because they are demented or intellectually limited, it must take place in an institution. That's gonna rub it anyway. In the second letter of amendment to the mandatory ggz Act, the government states that the need for two compulsory care schemes is motivated by differences in target group, needs and types of coercion. There have been several evaluations of the current BOPZ Act, with the conclusion that separate laws had to be introduced, but those evaluations have been from a long time ago. The evaluations from a shorter time ago indicate that there must be clarity, that there is an increasing overlap between the two target groups in the care of the elderly and the disabled, that it is no longer possible to make a distinction between those target groups and that the difference in laws is therefore less logical than was originally thought. That is why I am making another plea for one law today. Because it is incredibly complicated to put two laws together in an amendment, I have not tried to do so, also to avoid putting a great deal of work on Bureau Legislation. But I would like to ask the government: is it possible to still look at one law forced care? One law of forced care, whether you're in prison, or need elderly care or mental disability care, or psychic suffering is the underlying problem. It cannot be explained that under these two laws there is an idea that there are different people who have different needs and thus have different legal protection, one for patients in mental health care and one for people in care for the elderly and the disabled. When you get forced care in an institution in that latter, in the Law of care and coercion, there is no need for a judicial test. That's a big deal. This while you always do it in other areas, or have arranged it through the care authorisation, but you do have a judicial review. Splitting into two laws, or rather three, undermines the equality of two target groups by creating differences in legal protection, and it also creates confusion. For clarity and access to care, but also to guarantee the guarantee of good care, it would be good if there were a single law on compulsory care. This is also recommended in the Thematic Law Review Forced Care of ZonMw, which is the most recent review. Across the street, in the Upper Chamber, they wait with the treatment of the Forensic Care Act and the Care and Force Act on this law, to see whether the degree of legal protection is equal, and to see the coherence of the laws. How does the government think this is going to go there? Does she think that it will succeed in reaching the finish line in the form of three different laws, or that there will eventually be one law? The question we are discussing today should be: how do we guarantee the protection of the most vulnerable in our society at their most vulnerable moments? I have already gone into the need to apply two laws. Taking away someone's freedom and applying coercive measures is not a frivolous measure. That is why such an intervention involves a judicial review. According to the Law on compulsory mental health care, all forms of coercion require judicial review, both in the home situation and in the inclusion. According to the Care and Force Act, only a judicial review is required prior to a withdrawal. If forced care is applied in an institution, this is done on the basis of a roadmap. There is only ex post control possible by the Health Inspectorate and no judicial test. The Minister and the Secretary of State defend this difference in judicial review with false arguments. The course of action would lead to incomprehension or less careful consideration of involuntary care and its reduction in mental disability or psychogeriatric care. In addition, the government states that their care needs are very different from those of people in need of mental health care. In the first group there would be more nursing, care and protection, and in the second group more treatment. The government also says that people in care for the elderly and the disabled cannot express their will or are not able to express their will. There the "no objection' group is larger and procedural safeguards have been introduced. At the same time, the government states that there is no reason to change legal protection in the legislative proposals. There is a difference in what people can do, and that leads to a difference in legal protection. I think that's incorrect. Because you're less able to get justice or less able to express what you need, you shouldn't have less rights. It's an alarming difference. What I also find alarming is the lack of a BOPZ doctor in the Health and Force Act. That is the medical director, who has a sort of pivotal role at the time when supervision is required and an independent judgement on coercive measures must be made. This medical director, the BOPZ doctor, is currently in the care of the elderly and the disabled, but is now leaving. Actually, I'm not okay with that. It means that each institution itself is concerned with the use of coercive measures, the roadmap and the phasing-out, and that there is no supervision of a BOPZ doctor or a medical director. The current position of medical director in the BOPZ is translated into a BOPZ doctor in elderly care institutions and disability care institutions. I have drafted an amendment to position this BOPZ doctor in the Health and Force Act. I assume this will be taken over. The difference in legal protection is a problem and if there is no test from a doctor who looks closely at it, we are slipping all the way down. In each institution, then, the use of forced care and the reduction of forced care will be dealt with differently. Another undesirable difference between the two laws relates to care responsibility. If a coercive measure has been imposed, there is a caretaker who looks into it. The definition in both laws is different. I've tried to align those definitions. Where the definition of compulsory ggz in the Law states that it must be an appeal that is included in the BIG register, that requirement has lapsed in the Health and Force Act. The caretaker can be a very different person there than someone in a ggz institution or in the home situation of a ggz patient. I do not think these differences are desirable. I'll come back to the client confidant. That's an important person who gives independent advice to clients at the time they get forced care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u3	I shall come back to the previous point in order to clarify this. Mrs Leijten says on the one hand that she wants to keep the BOPZ doctor. Her argument for this is that the people in the day in, day out of good care, might do so at random. On the other hand, Mrs Leijten often says in debates that care should be provided by the people with their hands on the bed, because they know what is the best care for people. How can these two theories be rhymed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u4	My wish for a BOPZ doctor is not motivated by a lack of trust in people who provide care. At the moment when a coercive measure is imposed, a person is restricted in his freedom and that requires supervision. That's what's happening in the BOPZ now. I don't think it's wise to let that go. That doesn't say anything about the care being delivered. In fact, with the positioning of an independent doctor who, together with the people in the workplace, looks at what is going on, why the forced care is needed, how it can be achieved that care is as short as possible and how the care can be reduced, more voice is given to the workplace than to a decision of the institution. They don't have to be doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u5	In any case, this clarifies the fact that Mrs Leijten's view explicitly includes a position for the people who provide care day in and day out. That seems to me to be of great importance, because they are of course best placed to assess what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u6	Sure. They may also be a kind of requesting party to the Public Prosecutor's Office under the compulsory ggz Act to consider whether a coercive measure can be imposed. I think that position is extremely important, as well as the position of the family and its surroundings. An imposed measure must be an ultimatum remedium which must be as short as possible. I believe that it should not be placed directly in those hands, also because it makes people vulnerable. If that happens between you and me, it's a criminal offense. So it has to do with the legal protection of the resident, but also with the people who work in the care sector. That is how I see it and I do not see it at all as a disqualification of people who take care of others every day. Absolutely not! I'll continue with the client confidant. The current patient confidant in the BOPZ is the confidant of people who are forced to receive care in mental health care. He can advise the patient on the course to the judge, his rights, the handling of the care institution and all kinds of other matters. We in the Chamber have said in the Law of care and compulsion that there should also be such a person at the time when there is forced care in the care of the elderly or in the care of the disabled. In the end, the government took over. Now, however, the positioning of the client confidant in the Law care and coercion is very shaky. Once again, it is up to an institution to decide how it intends to deal with this. If an institution indicates that it is not independent or is not always available, it will, of course, be a complicated position, because it has a high degree of control over when someone is given forced care and how it will be reduced. In fact, as the Law now states care and coercion, it makes that policy. Then you get an independent person from the institution who also makes that policy. I don't think that's desirable. That is why I have tabled an amendment to this effect, which is supported by Mrs Voortman and which is therefore given a new number. The purpose of this amendment is to guarantee the independent position of the client confidant through a foundation. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State how he's gonna take care of that. Again, this is about differences between one legal regime and another legal regime. Why should you, if you are forced to receive care through the law of mandatory ggz, get an independent patient confidence person and if you are forced to receive care through the law of care and coercion, do not receive an independent client confidence person? I don't think that's desirable. There are many questions about patients with some sort of double problem. What happens to people who have both a physical disability and an intellectual disability and who can therefore be covered by different regimes? What happens to people who get care in the ggz and who become demented and therefore fall under different regimes? How's that gonna work in practice? These questions are actually some kind of support for the establishment of a single legal regime. I also have a question about the application of forced care to young people in small-scale housing and family replacement homes. The Government replied to questions from the CDA in the note following the report that the Health and Force Act does not require waiting for involuntary care to be provided in small-scale housing or family replacement homes until serious harm can be removed only through involuntary admission. In other words, there can also be forced care in the home situation. Can the Secretary of State explain that again? I also have the question of how to do that at school or at the moment when someone is spending the day. If someone has coercive measures where they live, can they be deployed where someone lives during the day? I don't think that's possible if I analyze the bill properly. Wouldn't the care authorisation that is quite charming in the Law mandatory ggz provide a solution to this? A care authority has someone with him, wherever he is. That authorisation has been set up precisely for people who live at home and therefore do not need to be included in order to be forced to receive care. This, too, would lead to proper harmonisation of laws. People who live in mental disability care and who have their daily spending elsewhere and have certain coercive measures at home and who may need them elsewhere need some kind of permanent measure. For that, such a care authorisation would be good. So you would be harmonizing the laws again. Another case towards the Secretary of State. Someone was forced into a nursing home through the BOPZ. Different coercive measures apply, but a sensor has also been installed on a voluntary basis to detect whether someone has visited the toilet at night or whether someone needs to be woken up to visit the toilet. This from the thought that someone does not need to be woken up by the staff when one has been able to see that that person has already gone to the toilet himself. But now the health care institution of the inspection is getting a measure on its pants because this would be a coercive measure that would have been applied that had not been reported. So you have the situation in which you can use certain means in situations of coercion but also in situations of voluntaryity. Then how are we gonna handle that in a good way? 'Cause when I heard this, I thought to myself, "This isn't what we came up with, is it? And that measure has had serious consequences for this institution. I am referring to the law before us today, which is the previous one, because it is being amended through Chapter 14 in the second letter of amendment, and that is the compulsory ggz Act. As I said, the SP welcomes the improvements for the patient and his environment that result from this law. The mandatory ggz Act replaces the BOPZ because evaluation has shown that this law no longer meets the contemporary views on the averting of danger and the provision of care and treatment. For example, the legislative proposal provides for the need to be able to provide mandatory care at home if necessary, so that someone does not always have to be included. That is what my group welcomes. In addition, the legal status of the patient is strengthened. The focus will also be more on preventing coercion. Much more explicitly than in the BOPZ Act, the law requires ggz at the various stages through procedural rules to consider coercion as an ultimum remedium and the application of this principle, namely that you only use coercion if there is no other way. It is good that the judge can now decide which form of coercion may be applied. It is also very good that the position of the family has been taken away. The family may require the applicant to submit an application for compulsory care to the court, even if the prosecutor or the ggz institution in which a person is subject to voluntary treatment does not consider it necessary. That's really good. The outcome is obviously up to the judge. The Law requires ggz explicitly that the application of coercion is only possible as an ultimum remedium, as a last resort, when no adequate alternative is available. In doing so, subsidiarity, proportionality, efficiency, security and reciprocity must be assessed. We support the intention of the law to prevent the application of coercion. Can the Minister comment on the way in which she wants to ensure that coercion is used as an ultimatum remedium, despite or perhaps with the current bottlenecks in mental health care? We held a hearing on this subject. There I have heard a cry of hearts from the field, from the people working with people suffering psychiatrically and the patient organizations. They say that there are waiting lists, that insufficient care is being bought in, that there are insufficient outpatient facilities, that there are municipalities that do not deal well or insufficiently with the provision of public mental health care, that people are unnecessarily sent from the locker to the wall and that coercion is more likely to arise than you would really want. What is being done with these concerns? What is being done about people who are out of the boat and who have to deal with a problem that is getting worse, and that should not really be the case? Care is often not properly connected to the municipal domain. There's often no exchange. There is still a lack of care, care that does not fit and dismissal because the health insurance provider no longer pays for care while safety in the street cannot be guaranteed. I am not very reassured by the switching team that has to take a final approach, while there are structural underlying problems. We talked about this last week. What about the poignant example, which has been widely discussed in this Chamber, of Bart of yours? He asked for treatment and admission several times and even asked if he could go back to prison. This kind of problem isn't solved by the observation measure, is it, Minister? The problem here is that there is no cooperation and no information exchange. How is it that the minister claims very tough that she's gonna take time bombs off the street? In fact, I do not think the word 'time bombs' is so correct in this debate. How does the Minister reflect on that? In the second letter of amendment, the nature of the legislative proposal has changed considerably. The Council of State even speaks of a novelle. Recommendations from the Hoekstra Committee's report bring the administrative hysteria around confused persons into the bill; these are words from the hearing. As a result, the instrument for mayors to take the confused persons off the streets, the observation measure, was wrongly introduced into the law. As part of the October hearing, the UNG states that it welcomes the possibility of adopting a preventive approach to prevent escalation, nuisance, violence and crime. But at the same time it appears that the group of confused persons is not actually a uniform group. It's a container concept. It covers all kinds of problems. How does the Minister respond to Bauke Koekkoek's investigation, which found that "the confused person" does not actually exist and that this has become an unjustified container concept? I also have the question of what exactly is being done with the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee's report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u7	That is exactly what I wanted to ask Mrs Leijten. After all, a number of amendments to the legislative proposal were linked to the report of the Hoekstra Committee. The same applies to the case mentioned by Mrs Leijten herself. She linked that to administrative hysteria, which has now become part of it. But isn't it just right that you take the recommendations of that report seriously in that sense and consider how to incorporate them into the bill? How does she feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u8	That is right if it does not change the nature of the bill. We have said that it must be a care law with the character of an ultimum remedium. When you use the observation measure from a point of view of prevention, so that you use it to prevent something, it does not have the character of an ultimum remedium. After all, you could use that measure when it is unnecessary. That's rubbing. That was also apparent from the hearing. That was a loud cry: treat this law as a legal protection law, a careful law that states how you assess whether someone is being forced to care and what protection that person has without the inconvenience, which is also there and which needs to be solved, in this bill bikes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u9	When Mrs Leijten speaks of nuisance, that still sounds rather innocent. But when you talk about the protection of society, especially against people who, from a certain confusion, can commit acts of which others are victims, is that something that fits fully within the objectives of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u10	Sure, it doesn't change that at all. That's one of the cores of this bill. That is what I said at the beginning of my speech. It is the interface between the physical integrity and the duty of the government to protect its citizens and provide medical care. But it's that intersection. The hearing mainly suggested by the mayors that this bill could solve all kinds of problems and nuisances. The moment you say that, you change the character. Then it's gonna be a law that solves your nuisance. And as much as I want to, I can see that this bill can also be used improperly. We need to unravel what has gone wrong with those problems that have received a lot of media attention. Did it go wrong because there was no observation measure? No, one didn't know what the other was doing. They didn't know what was happening. The doors were closed while someone called for help.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u11	That certainly played a role. But also played a role in the fact that legal protection was sometimes so far outspoken that the protection of society and the good interaction between different institutions were at risk. Mrs Leijten says that this is only a law of law. Then I am, in turn, a little concerned about whether we still have the other side, the protection of society and citizens and the provision of necessary care in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u12	Let's take a look at the case the Hoekstra Committee has investigated. Was it necessary to impose an observation measure on Bart van U. because it was not clear what his psychiatric suffering was? No, we didn't. It was therefore unnecessary to impose the observation measure on him. During the hearing, the mayor of Leeuwarden gave an example of a newly fired psychiatric patient who killed someone. That was a terrible incident. That person wasn't taken off the street either if there was an observation measure. After all, we knew they suffered psychologically. So he could have been included in another title, the title that is also mentioned in this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u13	Does Mrs Leijten agree with me that the Hoekstra Committee also expressly said that it was even necessary to take measures prior to this law? The conclusion of the report was not: with a little cooperation everything will be okay. The conclusion was that we really need to look at whether the instruments need to be tightened.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u14	I certainly agree with that. I welcome the proposal to use previously forced care and not just when a recording is needed. I think that is what the Hoekstra Committee has been trying to do. Mr Hoekstra said in particular: at the moment you see that someone is not doing well and that there is a potential danger, you should be able to make a request to the applicant, the prosecutor, to examine whether this person can also receive forced care in the home situation. It seems like it's a very long procedure, but it can happen very quickly. The observation measure has been proposed as something that takes time bombs off the streets, but this measure is ineffective and does not do justice to the problems in society. The observation measure also does not do justice to what mayors advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u15	I'll continue on the other side of the medal. Then let go of what the mayors have said. I know that Mrs Leijten also regularly gets signals from society and emails from family members who are at an end. They're very worried about their child, but they're not getting anywhere. They bump from instance to instance and from problem to problem. Eventually, they would be very happy if there were some kind of observation to establish a precise diagnosis and to really lead someone to good care. Does Mrs Leijten have an eye for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u16	Oh, yeah. Those family members may make a request to the applicant, the Public Prosecutor. Then it's gonna be judged on the courts, and then someone's got legal protection. I'm very much in favour of the family being placed there. I am also very much in favour of this being investigated without anyone having to be admitted. In that respect, this bill is really an improvement. We don't need the observation measure for that. At the moment when someone is a danger to himself or to their surroundings, the judge can make that judgment, even if it is still being investigated what someone has. The advantage of this careful procedure is that someone gets immediate care. However, this is not the case with the observation measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u17	I share the blessings of the crisis measure enshrined in the law. We do not disagree on this. But I am concerned about how we, as a society, ensure that we do not need a crisis situation before proper care can be provided. The point is that we can prevent such a crisis. Mrs Leijten also argues that this should be done. Surely that observation measure could be a means in those cases that you want to have a good conversation with someone? After all, you can use that to get in through the front door.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u18	An observation measure that takes someone off the street for three days without legal protection can't be a good tool. The VVD can't be serious! We need good mental health care where all hands are on deck. Mr De Lange was also present at the hearing. That's where the sum of what's going wrong at the moment came up. The ggz settings don't know what the municipality does. There's no coordination between the police and the whole field. There's no 24-hour emergency service available. The list is almost infinite. Our commitment must be to resolve this. We should not opt for a measure to take someone off the street for up to three days to have a good conversation. It is an observation measure in which the person concerned is not given any care. When a person poses a risk to society, the law on compulsory mental health provides a good procedure with legal protection and care to make society safer as well as to help someone in mental distress. But an observation measure does not help someone in mental distress and does nothing to improve care, while that improvement is so much needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u19	I hear you very well. Your pain point is in legal protection, which is lacking in your eyes. What if a reconnaissance could be done? I always go into a debate with the idea: let us see if we can solve problems. Would that be a possible way of resolving your inconvenience about this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u20	I note that the observation measure is not wanted by a majority of the Chamber, for example for the reason I mention. I do not think that this would be necessary in the field of legal protection, also because it can be done quickly through the applicant. That's a role that the state's attorney's office now has. The advantage of this is that people are protected from themselves or that society is protected from those people. They will also be given care. At the intersection of the integrity of the body and legal protection, the right route is then followed, namely that this is subject to legal review. So you can also get your rights legally. That is not possible with the observation measure; then you have to go to the administrative judge afterwards. I don't like that. I have already said a great deal about the observation measure because of these interruptions, so I'm gonna skip a little bit. I had prepared a whole paper on how to deal with this observation measure. Who then finds that it is sufficiently plausible that someone has a mental disorder and that there is a serious suspicion that this person would cause serious harm? But I'm gonna skip that. I am concerned about and would like to draw attention to the development that this law is increasingly starting to abdicate against criminal law. This is due, among other things, to the applicant's role; the role of the party asking the court to issue an authorisation to force someone to take care of it. After a long discussion and amendment of the law, it was returned to the Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor. On the contrary, the evaluation of the BOPZ clearly shows that the Public Prosecutor's Office finds this role complicated. The district attorney is often absent when a verdict is made. When it comes to punishment, the D.A. has a lot of experience and affinity, but when it comes to care and care-avoidance and there's actually no punishment at all, the D.A.'s office is on the sidelines. I found it so wonderful of the law proposed by Minister Hirsch Ballin in 2009, that there was a multidisciplinary committee, which could look at the forced care that was needed in all respects. Therefore, the SP advocates going back to the basic principle of the multidisciplinary committee in the law. This committee takes on the role of the applicant and can put the legal protection of the data subject at the heart of the matter. This committee must actively examine whether all alternatives have been exhausted and has good knowledge of care. The committee should also assess We have tabled an amendment to get the multidisciplinary committee back, as originally envisaged by the legislative proposal. That is also in favour of medical professional secrecy, I would say. Medical confidentiality is currently not properly covered. A medical director, a treatment officer, must submit medical data to the prosecutor in preparation for the application to the judge for forced care. Is there really a guarantee that those medical records can't be involved in a criminal case at a later stage of a person's life? Someone has been forced to care as a result of psychosis, imposed by the judge at the request of the Public Prosecutor. This is known to the Public Prosecutor's Office that someone has been psychotic or at least had a psychosis. Let's say someone ends up in a criminal case. That could be for something serious or something small. That's what pops up that person's psychosis-sensitive. That doesn't have to have anything to do with the criminal case, and yet it's something the D.A. can take into account in anything. Does the government think that's appropriate? Actually, I think it's a risk. I'd like to know if she's okay with that. In addition, a doctor who provides medical data to a third party must do so on the basis of the patient's interest. The provider must ensure that such data is not used by third parties for other purposes. So the handler must provide that information to the applicant, whether that is the multidisciplinary committee or the prosecutor. I think that makes sense. I think it makes sense that you won't be able to protect yourself with your medical confidentiality, because it's in your patient's best interest. It must then be ensured that these medical data are not used for other purposes in the future, otherwise we will put the controller back in a difficult position that medical professional secrecy is going to make it a problem to cooperate. I'm asking the Minister to respond to this. The new legal framework for forced care makes it possible for patients to find one place in mental health care together with convicts. The law creates the possibility to mix people from the regular ggz with people from the criminal regime. As a result, a forced admission based on psychological suffering or mental problems can take place in a judicial TBs clinic without criminal convictions. It happens now and then, but as far as my group is concerned, it is undesirable. Let us therefore use this legal treatment to put an end to this, because patients without conviction should not be placed in the criminal regime. That's not right, because there's no conviction. Nor is it morally justifiable. People who need forced care should not be stigmatized or criminalised by the place where they receive that care. Safety in the case of a compulsion is guaranteed by ensuring that there is good care and that the place where that care is provided has a good level of security. You do not guarantee safety by moving ggz patients to tbs settings. That is my firm conviction. Is the Minister prepared to adjust the level of security in ggz institutions in such a way that patients who have not committed a criminal offence can also be treated where they belong, namely in the regular ggz? It's the other way around. The criminal court may in future issue a care authorisation if he considers that a convicted person must be included in a ggz institution. This creates confusion on several fronts. The Council of Justice is concerned about the confusion that this may cause, as the authorisation of care will always be subject to civil procedural rules. If the criminal is issuing such an authorization as part of the criminal proceedings, where should the convicted person go? A convicted person may appeal against a criminal judgment other than against a civil judgment. So civil and criminal proceedings go through each other. What does the Minister or perhaps the Secretary of State think about this? I find it strange that we in the mental health sector are going to make this bill possible, which we put an end to in the youth care sector in 2008, 2009. Young people were treated together for a long time in juvie, with or without conviction. Because we saw that it didn't work, we said: we stop. You have a conviction, then you go to juvie and you get the care you need there. If you don't need that care, you go to a youth institution and you get the good care there. The fact that that care can sometimes be the same does not necessarily mean that you get that care in the same place. We took out that mix-up in youth care. I would find it undesirable if we were now to make that mixture legally possible in the regular mental health care system. Then I would like to ask the Minister to make her assessment of the following. Suppose someone has a psychosis where that person is a danger to himself. The mandatory care that follows is very traumatic. The person, after the psychosis, will not be forced to care in the same situation next time because he does not want to experience that traumatic experience. Does the Minister think this should be possible? Someone says, even though I'm really in real bad shape and I already know and foresee that, I don't want forced care and no forced medication. I don't want to. Should this be possible in the Minister's view? There is no such possibility. It is claimed that in the event of an acute risk of life, only danger to the patient himself, the willful resistance to forced care in a willless state can be overruled. This means that the desire of someone who, in a situation for psychosis because of the experience of the last time, says that he does not want to be, can still be overruled in that willless state. That's what the law says. But is that also the intention of the law? I don't think so. I have been thinking about an amendment on this. That is already ready, but I should like to await the Minister's response. I do not think that is the intention of this law. My next point is about the situation where someone is forced into a ggz institution, but in fact it is also about elderly care and disability care institutions. There are very different house rules in the institutions for the way in which freedom-limiting measures are dealt with. In one institution you are allowed on the internet, in the other you are not, in one you get visitors and in the other you don't. That's crazy. You are limited in your freedom, but the extent to which you are limited in your freedom therefore depends on the institution where you end up. Shouldn't there be a clear model for what institutions should meet, so that there is some clarity? Can the Minister respond to this? There is another point I would like to raise. Compulsory care can soon be imposed at home. Under the Law on Care and Forcement, it is not now clear how this will happen. In fact, the General Measure of Management still has to determine the conditions under which outpatient coercion is possible. I am concerned that we are talking about this now, but that we do not know when this General Administrative Measure will come. That is what I am asking the Secretary of State. We passed this law in 2013. We have already discussed what we are going to do in the situation at home. Mr Van der Staaij has talked about this for a very long time. Now we are three and a half years ahead, and we still do not have the General Measure. Well, that's kind of worrisome, isn't it? I come to the end of my speech. I would like to stress once again that the SP Group supports a lot of things in this proposal. We have concerns in some areas. We have therefore used our legal capacity to make amendments to improve the law in these areas. Compulsory care is sometimes necessary and we must take care of it properly. The BOPZ is actually about all target groups. By cutting the BOPZ into different target groups, there are important differences in legal protection. I would like to call on all of us to improve this and to ensure that there are proper review procedures in the case of coercive measures, which ensure a level playing field. But we cannot close our eyes to the problems that exist today in mental health care. If we want this law to be an ultimatum remedium, we must ensure that care is at such a level and in such a way that the measures are not used because there is no care available. How is the Minister going to test that coercion can only be applied out of necessity and not out of powerlessness or because of a poor organisation of our health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u21	I have another question about Mrs Leijten's justified comment in the debate on compulsory care at home under the Health and Force Act. We did not only discuss this extensively in 2013, but also in 2011. The same situation is, of course, also mentioned under the Law on compulsory mental health care. What is Mrs Leijten's view of home care and developments in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u22	The care authorisation that can be issued is, in my view, an instrument for checking whether it is possible to apply care and medication at home. I see that as a good measure or as a good guarantee not to fall into a huge procedural list of what is and is not allowed. I hope that I have made it sufficiently clear that, as far as I am concerned, it will become the multidisciplinary committee, because it has a background for concern and not only a criminal law background........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that is a good form to force care in the outpatient situation. We could also apply this form in the Law on care and coercion. That is why I am calling for these laws to be harmonised in one law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u23	In the discussions in 2011 and 2013, we also talked very much about the boundaries to the outpatient care at home in the Health and Force Act. How does Mrs Leijten see that under the Law on compulsory mental health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u24	I think it's complicated. What do you consider coercion and limitation of freedom? That is, of course, a big discussion. I think we were talking about closing a shed so someone can't go cycling anymore when it's clear that that's not possible. It seems clear to me that if people need care, so to their body, certain guidance or medication, the integrity of the person must be paramount. Determining whether or not someone is allowed to go anywhere is also a restriction of freedom. If it is applied by people from home care or the outpatient mentoring of mental health care, I think it is right that it is clear that this is a coercive measure. When family does it, however, it is very complicated again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Chairman. With this law, we can help desperate family members and arrange an appropriate form of care. These are words from PvdA mayor Crone van Leeuwarden, who, as far as the VVD is concerned, indicate the core of what this legal treatment should be about. This bill is balancing the freedom of the individual, and the protection and security of society as a whole. This calls for careful consideration and the creation of the right safeguards for the protection of human rights. In this context, it can only be necessary as a last resort to protect someone from themselves in order to prevent further suffering and misery, for both the person concerned and his or her environment. I do not think it is normal for psychiatrists to put away this careful process of law in the newspaper this morning as something designed to get confused people off the streets so that the mayor and the police are relieved. When you call this, I wonder if you've listened enough to stories of people and their families getting stuck. I want to look for solutions in this legal process. It's good that mayors indicate that they and psychiatrists are looking for ways to intervene when someone avoids care. As alderman and deputy mayor, I've regularly given a burden of detention. That has always made a great impression on me, because at such a moment you realize very well that by your decision someone is being deprived of their freedom. I've always made these kinds of decisions based on information I received from mental health care. If in doubt, you continue to ask and you enter the conversation to complete the image. What kind of situation does anyone live in? What are the circumstances? What kind of danger is there for the person concerned and for the environment? Are there people looking back at someone? Based on this kind of information, you make a careful assessment. People with mental problems should be able to rely on good care, which is given as much as possible at home. It is a good thing that after the extensive legal review, the Law on Special Admissions in Psychiatric Hospitals is replaced by a more modern law. It's much more of a treatment law than a law that focuses on forced admission. Leading people to voluntary treatment is a priority here. That's a good thing. Let us not forget that most people are willing to do this and are willing to go into treatment voluntarily. Furthermore, it is a gain that the law gives the family and neighbors a greater role. They can ring the bell themselves, even anonymously, if there is a risk of a crisis. This is what you want: working on the front to avoid problems in a crisis situation. If it is necessary to take care, then this will only be done after all the alternatives have been exhausted. It is an ultimum remedium that remains to avert further serious disadvantage from the "no, unless" principle. Forced care should be as short as possible and should aim to lead people to voluntary care as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u26	When I hear Mr De Lange like that, I fully agree with him. But I don't understand why he would say that the observation measure is necessarily necessary. For these situations, we have included the crisis measure in this bill, haven't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u27	In my contribution, I'm talking about a situation where you want to get ahead of the crisis. That is what I like about the observation measure: there is a response when the threat and the threat are not there yet, but there are indications. These clues are, of course, inspired by the ggz and the scan of the entire environment. There may be a mental disorder, but you don't know which one yet. Then in a number of cases it can be very helpful to observe people at that time, to enter into the conversation and to see what is going on. Thus, the severity of the disorder can be determined and treatment can be started based on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u28	That's exactly what the crisis measure is for, isn't it? It can also be used 18 hours before that. The advantage is also that the crisis measure can be dealt with immediately. The observation measure is mainly aimed at getting someone out of society, perhaps to observe but not to treat. So if this is Mr De Lange's aim, then he must say: good that we have the crisis measure, let us make a full effort and give it a good chance. But he also expressed his support for the observation measure, which led to an unclear law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u29	In my view, the law is not unclear and we agree quite widely here that the crisis measure has been properly incorporated into this law. I am only concerned here with the fact that this is also very strongly motivated by the social questions that we have been facing lately, where people are not yet screaming on the streets but are suffering in silence, where the whole environment has received all kinds of signals but you have not yet been able to go in with care; I will come back to that further in my contribution. For those people, I would find it an enrichment if this instrument, carefully dressed, were to be added to this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u30	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u31	In order for the implementation of this law to succeed, it is important that a district-oriented 24/7 ggz be established throughout the Netherlands. This is a mental health care that is in the middle of society and is in close contact with the district teams, municipalities, police, Public Prosecutor's Office, housing corporations and other relevant partners. It's a good thing the ggz found a place at the table everywhere in the Security Houses. The present law allows for the exchange of all relevant information. It is now important that this also works in practice. A few questions about that. I would like to ask the Minister, through the announced report of the Switch team, to make it clear to people with confused behavior what is going on with a secure exchange of data. Is there any way to get a concrete picture of where the 24/7 ggz works, but also where it doesn't yet work? What instruments does the Minister have in his hands to steer this? When do we have this in the Netherlands, I think the key question is a well-functioning district-oriented 24/7 ggz everywhere? The law before it also affects two other laws, it has already been said: the Law on care and coercion and the Law on forensic care. They've both been treated in this room. The VVD would like a more detailed explanation from the Minister: do the laws adhere well to each other? Is the position of people with intellectual disabilities or psychogeriatric disorder well secured? Furthermore, the VVD wants to get even more solidity on the transition from tbs-clinic to forced admission into a ggz institution through a care authorisation. It is essential for the VVD that there is a seamless transition from tbs to forced care. I would like to know from the Minister and the Secretary of State what guarantees there are so that a care authorisation issued can be implemented quickly enough in practice and that the person concerned will never be left unguided on the street. The second letter of amendment, on the advice of the Hoekstra Commission, laid down the applicant's role at the Public Prosecutor's Office, with an active role for the Public Prosecutor. The ggz remains of course responsible for the content of the care, but the Public Prosecutor's Office must ensure that all other relevant information is included in the file. Three pilots are currently under way to investigate how this works in practice for the Public Prosecutor and the Public Prosecutor. I would like to know from the Secretary of State of V and J whether or not there is a picture of these pilots. What does this mean, for example, for the stakes and the time span? I would like to take away the idea that this law would only be about the observation measure. Care authorisation and crisis measures have been modernised, information exchange has improved and the family, the relatives and the trusted are given a greater role. Fortunately, this is also supported by all parties that have to work on a daily basis under this law. The compulsory ggz Act provides help to people and their families when they are in a situation in which they no longer see a way out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u32	In terms of legal protection, there are a number of differences between people in long-term care, care for the elderly and care for the disabled and those who receive forced care under the ggz. How does the VVD view these differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u33	That's a very open question. Then what are you referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u34	To the fact that in the law mandatory ggz a judicial test is always required in forced care and in the law care and coercion only on admission. On the fact that for people who are included under the Law mandatory ggz is always an independent patient confidence person, while for people in an institution that depends on the institution. To the fact that for monitoring the construction, phasing-out and alternatives to forced care in the Law mandatory ggz the physician-director is inclined, while in the Law care and coercion an institution may decide who does. These are already three examples that show that the position, and also the legal position, of people in long-term care are substantially different from that of people in mental health care. I have also mentioned these examples in my text. Does the VVD consider that appropriate differences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u35	My question as to whether these two laws are compatible is partly prompted by those questions which I believe Mrs Leijten is right to put. I am certainly open to looking again at whether the legal guarantees are indeed equal and well organised in all cases. In order to determine whether this is possible, a number of points need to be looked at carefully. I agree with Mrs Leijten that the safeguards currently contained in the compulsory ggz Act are at least a very solid foundation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u36	If it is up to my group, that solid foundation on legal protection will also be given a place in the Health and Force Act. Can I understand Mr De Lange in such a way that he says that this should not depend on the place where people receive care? Is he indeed saying that this should not depend on whether someone is receiving care in a disability care institution or in the ggz?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u37	The starting point should be that care is regulated in both cases in such a way that it is supported as much as possible. That's what caused my interruption. I can imagine that there may be situational differences. That is why I am strongly in favour of leaving important judgements on people to people who are very close to them. From there, I think you can make the best decisions, but I agree with Mrs Leijten that these guarantees must be good everywhere. Then it shouldn't matter where you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u38	Please continue, Mr De Lange.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u39	The mandatory ggz Act provides help to people and their families when they are in a situation in which they no longer see a way out. Unfortunately, in some people there is the image that it is about the screamers on the street, about people who cause nuisance on the tram or freak out at the town hall. The law must also offer a solution to people who are not noticed. Think of people who are seriously neglecting themselves, who are avoiding care and who do not allow assistance, but who are getting the signals from the family and the surroundings. It may also be the case that a district team, based on the signals it receives, has a serious suspicion that there is a mental disorder. Isn't it more humane to help these people and protect them from themselves? This must, of course, be done with all the safeguards set out in this bill, because it is about depriving freedom. If we wait until things really go wrong, we're too late in practice. The VVD chooses to prevent, wherever possible, these people themselves, their families and their victims from carrying this with them for the rest of their lives. It must be clear that the observation measure can only be imposed if it really does not succeed in getting people into care in a voluntary way, if it is as short as possible and if it is done on the basis of strict safeguards. I ask the Minister to go into those safeguards in greater detail. Is it possible to impose an observation measure at the time when the process for a care authorisation has not yet started? How will it be checked whether someone is familiar with the ggz or the district teams and whether someone might already be in the process? Is it not important to have a well-functioning 24/7 ggz so that an observation measure is as short as possible? Can the Minister outline the concern expressed during this measure? Does the Minister share the view that an observation measure should always end in a concrete care plan? Does the Minister still see room to build in additional safeguards? For example, the imposition of a continued crisis measure is subject to a judicial test. What are the considerations to implement the observation measure only within the institution of the ggz? Could the possibility be created to observe someone at home when the situation allows, for example through intensive meddling? I end with an article from Trouw, but from last week, that was about a confused person in Friesland. A mother tells. "He was a real caretaker, no one came in to him. He also didn't dare to take the bus, didn't go to the hairdresser and didn't ask for a new identification card. He didn't trust the world around him. We rang the bell at mental health, but he couldn't be admitted because he wasn't demonstrably a danger." Do we really have to wait until things get out of hand before we can help this son?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u40	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the law on compulsory mental health care. More colleagues have already said: this bill is the successor to the Law special admissions in psychiatric hospitals, the BOPZ Act; a fat law in which we talk about people who receive forced care and treatment. It is important to give people care and treatment against their immediate wishes. We are talking about a vulnerable target group, a group that cannot always judge itself that it needs that kind of care. This law is the last law of a number of laws still in the Lower House. In the Eerste Kamer lies the Wet zorg en compulsie voor psychogeriatric and intellectually handicapped clients, which was adopted on 13 September 2013 in the Lower House. A number of changes are also made to the Law on compulsory mental health care and the different approaches for the different target groups become clearer. In short, today we are discussing a bill with a lot of impact for those concerned. The starting point must be to avoid as much coercion as possible by giving good care in advance. It is also necessary to examine the alternative voluntary treatment options first. If compulsory care is to be taken, then only in the extreme and as far as possible minimally. The profit of this Law mandatory mental health care compared to the BOPZ Act is that there is more in this law. But the CDA also realizes that this law is not a solution for people with confused behavior. The positive thing about this law is that the CDA believes that the role of the family and the neighbors is better anchored. I would like to address five subjects. Firstly, I will deal with the role of the prosecutor, secondly with the observation measure, thirdly with forced care and voluntary care in the home situation, fourth with compulsory after-care for vulnerable young adults and, fifth and final point, with funding. I come to the role of the district attorney. In the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion, care is central and no longer the forced admission as was the case in the BOPZ Act. That's a big difference. Force can only be applied if all alternatives to voluntary care are exhausted. In the end, the government decided to give the prosecutor a central role in the process of forced care. The medical director is responsible for the execution of the forced care measure. The Public Prosecutor therefore has a central role to play in the preparation of all health clearances and subsequently in their implementation. This concerns in majority cases where the criminal enforcement of the legal order is not at issue. The CDA considers it very important that the care side is so central to the district attorney's office. How is the Minister going to ensure that the preference is for forced care and not for forced enforcement? It is also important to look at the position of the medical director. It's about the care content. What's the status of his judgment on care? Is that an opinion to the district attorney, or does the district attorney always have to follow the doctor's judgment? The Hoekstra Committee notes that the Public Prosecutor has limited his role under the current law, the BOPZ Act. A small proportion of the prosecutors consider the care of these persons to be their own task. The Council of State is actually saying the same thing, namely that in practice the new direction of the Public Prosecutor will only work well if this task is carried out in a different way than the current task under the current BOPZ Act. Pilots are currently taking place which aim, inter alia, at obtaining clarity on when a further explanation by the Public Prosecutor has added value at the hearing. I have a few questions on this point, which focus on the fact that the Public Prosecutor is acting on his own behalf. In addition, they aim to ensure that the already overloaded Public Prosecutor's Office is able to perform this task properly. How does this relate to the Social Security Improvement Programme and to what is stated in the opinion of the College of Attorneys General, namely that the Public Prosecutor will only be present at the hearing if this is necessary, given the importance of maintaining a criminal justice system? Should the district attorney be more present at these 30,000 cases a year? Does the Public Prosecutor's Office have sufficient capacity to do so? How is the district attorney well prepared for his new, huge task package? He will have to agree not only with the medical director, but also with the family, for example. I come to speak about the observation measure, which was added to this bill in the second letter of amendment. The mayor may include in the accommodation the person who has, to a sufficient degree of probability, a mental disorder, but in which there is no immediate threat of serious harm. The objective of the observation measure is to investigate the nature of the mental disorder and to investigate whether the disorder causes serious harm. There is a lot to do here, both with interest groups and with healthcare professionals. Several parties are concerned as to whether the application of this measure leads to arbitrariness and abuse. Of course, that cannot be the intention. There is an amendment by Mrs Leijten, which now has a majority, whereby this observation measure comes out of the Law on compulsory mental health care. I have wondered whether I should therefore go into this measure. However, I think it is important to ask a number of questions about this because this measure has been so extensively discussed in the written preparation. In addition, Mrs Leijten pointed out that the degree of legal protection has been questioned from various sides. That is why I choose to ask a number of questions about it in a number of areas. The observation measure is intended as an ultimatum remedium and is only applied in cases where the law does not provide a solution to protect people from themselves or to protect other people. The objective is always to provide care. Abuse and randomness must be avoided. During the preparation of this debate, I looked at ways of increasing the legal guarantees of the observation measure. When Mrs Leijten's amendment did not yet have a majority, I had two options in mind. Although the majority of the Chamber has now deleted the observation measure, I would like to submit these options to the Minister. The first option was also suggested by GGZ Nederland and the Federation of Medical Specialists. They propose an extension of the operation of the crisis measure, extending the "immediate" criterion. This would allow the observation measure to lapse and sufficient justice to the Minister's objective. Would the Minister like to go into this again in detail? The second option is in line with the objections raised by the Human Rights College.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u41	This is a fair question from Mrs Bruins Slot. I also know her as a very punctual MP. She asked the Minister to elaborate on the proposal of the National Platform GGz and the Federation of Medical Specialists. Wouldn't it be a good idea if we got that in writing? Then we can see it in advance. This is perhaps easier than having a very long, complicated legal argument here. This is the suggestion I'd make.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u42	I shall, of course, pass on Mrs Bouwmeester's question to the Minister at her request. The PvdA therefore requests that it also be written. Sometimes that is useful when it comes to legal arguments. Then you can re-read some things. Otherwise, it's going to be pretty quick in such a debate. The second option is actually in line with the objections raised by the College of Human Rights. Mrs Leijten also raised one of those concerns that there is only legal protection afterward. The CDA likes that different. It would prefer to see that, as soon as possible after the mayor has taken the decision on an observation measure, an independent judge checks whether that decision of the mayor is lawful, i.e. not afterwards, but immediately after the mayor has taken that decision. If the court finds that that decision was not taken lawfully, it shall order that the measure be lifted immediately. This means that an independent judge will check whether the measure is lawful immediately after the measure has been taken. This prevents arbitrariness and abuse. The mayor will have to formulate his motivation, which he bases on the psychiatrist's advice, very carefully. Otherwise, he really doesn't go through the criticism of an independent judge. In the explanatory memorandum, no, the second letter of amendment also explains very precisely when such an observation measure can and when not. I have an amendment in preparation. I will send that to the Chamber, also because Mrs Bouwmeester has just indicated that she likes to get some things in writing. The Minister can read it. So at the end of my term, I will at least send this proposal to the Chamber so that everyone can read it on paper and see how it has been legally designed. Anyway, I realize that there is now a majority. The third point concerns voluntary care in the home situation and forced care in the home situation. The better the outpatient care for people with a ggz problem is, the less it will be needed. Mrs Leijten also raised this point. The CDA still has a few questions about it. As was discussed last week during the general consultation on mental health care, there are still a number of problems with care in the home situation for this target group. I'm saying it pretty much all over the place now. The internal capacity is reduced, while the extramural capacity is not sufficiently built up. Daily spending is still limited for this group. Neighborhood teams don't have enough psychiatric nurses. The Minister does not have a good idea of the interference and the F-ACT teams, but at least it does not seem to be sufficient. My question to the Minister is therefore the following. To what extent does the lack of outpatient care affect the application of this law? Does the Minister expect this law to be more necessary because the outpatient care in the neighborhood is not sufficiently regulated? The CDA considers forced care at home a vulnerable point in this law. The Minister will acknowledge that. There has been virtually no investigation into the application of coercion in the home situation. How is it that over the last seven years, the seven years that this law has been in the House of Representatives, there has been no investigation into the application of coercion in the home situation? How is that possible? Let me explain, because this is a very important part of this law. We have had seven years to conduct a number of fundamental studies. Then we could have talked more about the content of care in the home situation. We can do this much less now, because we do not have good scientific research results on which we can have a fundamental debate together. I think that's a loss. In the second note on the report, the Minister also states that, although the path towards the development of the Force and Drang module is still ongoing, this shows the need for restraint in the home situation. The CDA also believes that this should be done with care and restraint in the home situation. My question to the Minister is: what compulsory care will be allowed in the home situation and under what conditions under the General Measure of Management? If we choose to allow certain forms of forced care in the home situation, then it is also necessary to agree on this between the healthcare provider, the municipality, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police. Why? Because people who are forced into care in the home situation often also have to deal with family members and other people who may find themselves in a difficult situation. They must be able to fall back on something. You shouldn't leave it alone in that situation. The question is whether making agreements between the healthcare provider, the municipality, the police and the Public Prosecutor is real and feasible, especially given the limited capacity of the police. Isn't it convenient to do an execution test at this point? There are still agreements to be made between the Association of Dutch Municipalities and the Health Inspectorate on supervision. The Minister's replies show that the arrangements for supervision by the Health Inspectorate will not be made on the basis of legislation. The Health Inspectorate and the Association of Dutch Municipalities will have to consider how and using which instruments the inspection can check whether sufficient voluntary assistance and support is provided to patients and clients in qualitative and quantitative terms, especially prior to the time when mandatory care has been provided. This surprises the CDA Group in this legislative proposal. It must be made clear whether enough has been done to prevent coercion from being applied. In such a situation, it is important for the inspection to be able to verify with the same criteria whether this has happened in a specific situation, so that you also have a certain degree of security and security for people affected by it. I would ask the Minister if a testable and verifiable cooperation protocol, or, for example, a covenant, would not be desirable. The fourth issue is compulsory follow-up for vulnerable young adults. Leiden University, on behalf of the Scientific Research and Documentation Centre of the Ministry of Security and Justice, has investigated the legal possibilities for mandatory assistance to vulnerable young adults and child protection. The report on compulsory follow-up care for young adults has recently been completed. The general conclusion of this study is that the current legal instruments offer little scope for forcing vulnerable young adults affected by child protection measures after reaching the age of 18. In other words, they may end up in a fragile, difficult situation, but when they turn 18, everyone pulls their hands off it and then they stand alone. Although the authors of the report consider that the two legislative proposals currently before the Second and First Chambers offer more opportunities for forced assistance to vulnerable young people, there is still a group that is not being helped. These are intra-murally resident young people who become 18 and who then end up in prostitution and crime and thus in a situation that everyone wanted to avoid for their eighteenth year of life. Is it possible to make a combination of a conditional authorisation, linked to a care plan with conditions, so that inpatient placement is possible when a young person does not meet those conditions? The CDA Group is in the process of tabling an amendment on this. How does the Secretary of State view this? The funding is the final point of my contribution. In practice, what will be the cost of the mental health care based on the Law and who will pay for it? An insurer has a duty of care when it comes to a healthcare claim based on the Health Insurance Act. The Dutch Healthcare Authority supervises compliance with this obligation of care. You're about to face a care authorisation, whereby someone in a certain institution is given mandatory care. The question of which institution is best suited for this is discussed in advance. We now know that there are waiting lists within mental health care. We also have to deal with the turnover ceilings set by the health insurance companies. How do we deal with that in a care authorisation? Especially when we impose care, we want the best care to be given in the best place. Someone who gets mandatory care, you don't want to saddle with a second choice. How will this be dealt with in practice? How do you ensure that the person who gets the care authorisation also gets the best care in the most appropriate place? There is another point. Sufficient availability of secure care has been investigated. This study was due to be completed in January. What are the results of that? The Council of State has also asked questions about this. This concerns in particular the role of the Public Prosecutor and the increased role of the Public Prosecutor. The board says that the costs to the Public Prosecutor involved in taking up this additional task are underrated. This concerns the regional consultation, the coordination role and the extension of the applicant role of the Public Prosecutor. How much does this cost? What does the Public Prosecutor's Office get to do these tasks if this law is adopted in its current form? If the Council of State is wondering whether the Public Prosecutor's Office is getting enough money and is worried about it, that'll tell us something. This is quite apart from the fact that we have had many discussions in the Chamber about the fact that the Public Prosecutor's Office is overburdened and is in danger of falling. Providing mandatory care is truly an ultimatum remedium. The most important thing is that people receive voluntary care as long as possible. If you care for people, then it is important that it is focused on treatment. In this respect, the proposal for a mandatory ggz is a step forward compared to the current law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u43	I'd like to put two questions to the CDA. The first question is: how does the CDA feel that there are different laws for people who need forced mental health care and for people who need care for the elderly or for the disabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u44	We had an extensive discussion in 2013. I remember Mrs Leijten asking me the same question at the time. Maybe that even happened in 2011. I must say, however, that Mrs Leijten suggested that these laws should be dealt with at the same time. In retrospect, Mrs Leijten was right in saying that it might have been better to do so. At that time, I also told her that, precisely on the basis of the evaluation that had been carried out, people saw reasons for giving a different interpretation to the Health and Force Act than to the Law mandatory ggz, because the care received by the people under the latter law has different characteristics. I have to say quite frankly that the roadmap introduced by Mrs Veldhuijzen van Zanten at the time in response to the letter of amendment 2011 is really an improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u45	We have received a new evaluation of forced care. The Minister would like to wait for this before submitting a letter of amendment. It actually calls for a single law. It actually says that it is unwise, because it causes all kinds of confusion, but also because a difference in legal protection is not appropriate if there is a difference in the care that one needs. We have now adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. It states that the distinction between legal protection and access to society is simply not appropriate on the basis of the organisation of society. People in the care of the elderly or in the care of the disabled are really put at a disadvantage with those who receive compulsory ggz under the Act, not only in legal protection, but also, for example, in the assistance provided by a client-confidence person or by the supervision of a medical director. Doesn't the CDA agree that this is a problem in view of these two recent developments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u46	I myself asked that question about the UN Convention in our written preparation. The Minister replied that the Secretary of State included a clause in the adoption of this Convention: compulsory care could be imposed under certain conditions and could also be distinguished. I found that answer sufficiently substantiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u47	I had asked another question: how are we going to test that people are not getting that compulsion because of the lack of other care? The CDA also asked a question about this. How are we supposed to keep up with that? What should we do, for example, when a judge sees an applicant who wants forced care in a particular situation, when he actually thinks that the possibilities of voluntary care are not sufficiently exhausted, but that they are lacking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u48	There are two elements to that. Firstly, last week, the CDA shared in the debate that it wants to see an objective for the amount of care in the area as soon as possible, so that we can really measure. I have been advocating for two years, as has Mrs Leijten, to build it up more quickly and to monitor it more closely. Secondly, if a judge decides to do so, this voluntary care should simply be regulated on the basis of this law, on the left or on the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Law on compulsory mental health care, which replaces the current Law on special inclusions in psychiatric hospitals, the BOPZ Act. We have followed the various notes of amendment with interest, as well as the reactions from the field to it. My group welcomes many articles of the proposed new law, but less or not at all in other parts. During the revision of the BOPZ Law, which deals with mandatory mental health care, many consultations with people and organisations took place to give the new GGZ law the best possible form. My group appreciates the effort and time that has been devoted to shaping things properly. However, my group has to note that in the course of the process some legitimate objections have not been adequately addressed. This is what we are here to talk about today. The explanatory memorandum states that this new law is explicitly a treatment law, not a inclusion law. GroenLinks strongly shares this ambition to come up with a treatment law instead of a recording law. This is because we are doing justice to the multidisciplinary approach that is so important for mental health care. At least in the beginning the emphasis was placed on the importance of the patient and on the starting point of care rather than coercion. Compared to the current BOPZ Act, my group considers this to be a step forward. Indeed, it must be a matter of care, not of security. The latter should not be the main task of mental health care. Patients should be followed in their treatment and the law should outline appropriate frameworks for this. That's how you get a real treatment law in my eyes. However, there have been a number of increases in security possibilities. These are undesirable in my view and do not contribute to good and proper care by ggz professionals. Moreover, they are at odds with the UN Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities. I am referring in the first instance, of course, to the observation measure, which will force people to be observed for three days without any psychological problems being identified. We are getting the most distressed signals about this. A broad coalition of organisations, from the National Platform GGz to the Human Rights College, is very concerned about this. We must take these signals seriously. They come from people who know very well what does and doesn't work, from people who are dealing with people with psychiatric backgrounds every day. I would therefore find it only right if the Minister takes them very seriously. In my view, an observation measure is based on incident policy and not on real solutions. That is why my group has tabled the amendment to item No. 49, which Mrs Leijten has submitted, has co-signed. The purpose of this amendment is to delete the observation measure. I am glad that there is now a majority in the Chamber under this amendment. There is nothing in this measure other than putting people in prison. On the contrary, it can lead to distrust of people in the mental health sector and thus lead to people getting more out of the picture. In addition, harmonisation of the Health and Force Act and the Law on compulsory mental health care have extended the disadvantage criterion. In addition, the Minister brings a number of elements under the scope of the hazard criterion that did not previously fall under it. I am referring here to the longer-term consequences due to the loss of direction and decorum loss as a possible cause of serious disadvantage. Furthermore, severe loneliness or depression is defined for this target group as a form of severe neglect. Finally, as an important addition to the hazard criterion, it is mentioned that negative external influences may fall under the disadvantage criterion. All these points have also been brought into the disadvantage criterion of the Law on compulsory mental health care, which is intended for a target group other than the Health and Force Act. Moreover, the damage criterion, presented in the original legislative proposal for the compulsory ggz Act, already contains a slight increase in the hazard criterion of itself by the explicit appointment of addiction to alcohol and drugs. Under the BOPZ Act, this is not generally accepted as a justification for coercion. We therefore consider this tightening up to be contrary to UN conventions. That is why we have an amendment on this (32399, No. 52) tabled. This is because there is a danger that care will be imposed too easily. This is in line with the trend in the use of the term 'confused persons', which may indeed seem stigmatizing. Demented elderly, mentally handicapped and people who lose control of themselves in a fit of insanity are all covered by the term "confused persons." Only 30% of them, after examination, actually had a mental disorder. We must ensure that not everything that deviates from the standard is seen as dangerous or crazy. Politics has the task of setting frameworks in this respect, because it is about our people. Not everything and everyone who deviates from the standard, whatever that standard is, you can put in the box "not normal" and certainly not in the box "dangerous." We must also have confidence in our experts, who provide the most appropriate care in crisis situations. As a result of this objection, our group, together with the D66 Group, is proposing an amendment to reverse this extension. We would like to hear the Minister's response to this. GroenLinks considers the accessibility of the new ggz law to be extremely important. Unfortunately, this accessibility is not guaranteed. Recent research has shown that as many as 50% of those in need of help avoid this because of high costs. That is a very undesirable situation. Psychiatric care should be as accessible as possible, because the threshold for this care is already high enough in itself. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the participation of people is crucial in order to offer people with mental problems as much perspective as possible. The municipality can take care of this par excellence. That is why we would like to see an effort obligation in the Law on compulsory mental health care, so that this is legally anchored. Volunteering, maintaining your social contacts and participating in the labour market are countering isolation. This offers a perspective and is beneficial for recovery after psychiatric problems. GroenLinks therefore calls for an amendment (32399, No. 51), so that municipalities can get to work with it. I come to the administrative burden on mental health care. This is an important issue, because healthcare professionals often lose up to a third of their time filling out forms. This time cannot therefore be devoted to the provision of care. That is why I have a question about the following. The procedure for issuing a care authorisation is going to take a very long time. In current practice, psychiatrists can obtain a judicial authorisation within two weeks. If I put all the deadlines together properly, this will be eight weeks for a care authorisation. This will in practice lead to more crisis measures, which of course are far more profound for people. How does the Minister view this? Does it share the view that it is undesirable for such a procedure to take too long? GroenLinks also has concerns about how the judge deals with the prevention of punishment. What is the impact of the new compulsory ggz law on youth institutions? 80% of young people in a youth institution need mental health care. The same applies to prisons. 50% of the prisons have slightly mentally handicapped among the inmates. There are plans to return the four juvenile prisons that are now in place to one or two. Are you sure you can catch all these people there? Are there any scenarios for this? How do we ensure that the law on compulsory mental health is truly future-proof? GroenLinks also has questions about the alignment of the Law on compulsory mental health care with the capacity of the social domain. We wonder if the capacity of this is ready at the time when the Law on compulsory mental health care is introduced. At regional level, binding chain agreements with all partners are still needed to ensure that the implementation of the mandatory mental health legislation is as effective as possible. But that's not gonna work if a new law on mandatory mental health care is there too soon. As far as we are concerned, it is unwise to introduce it too early. We would therefore like to see certain elements of the Law on compulsory mental health care, which have not yet been agreed on a binding regional chain agreement, enter into force at a later date. This avoids problems that may arise if there is not sufficient capacity in the social domain to ensure the proper implementation of the Law on compulsory mental health care. We therefore propose that these two matters be properly aligned. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. Then about privacy in this new law. My group believes it is important that privacy is guaranteed with the utmost care. It is sensitive information that must not fall into the wrong hands. All feedbacks to reporters as they are now formulated in the Law on compulsory mental health care, I do find a threat to privacy. Although it is limited to a number of detectors, there is still a major change in the legal status of patients. As this feedback now looks, I find it difficult to write a medical statement as a psychiatrist, because elements of it end up with third parties. This is contrary to the confidentiality requirement in the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. This law requires the sharing of information, but there is also a limit to that. It has to be proportional. If you lose control of yourself once and therefore need psychological help, your employer does not need to know. Does the Minister share that sharing some information is contrary to confidentiality? How does it assess the proportionality of data sharing? What can be shared and what not? I'd like to hear a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u50	Before I give Mrs Bouwmeester the floor, I suggest we suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u51	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the law on compulsory mental health care, the successor of the BOPZ. In fact, my colleague Mrs Tanamal should be here, but she is absent today because of personal circumstances. That's why I'm replacing her. It's not entirely strange that I'm standing here. I've been a spokesperson for a long time. In fact, almost ten years ago I stood here and made my maiden speech on this subject: coercive care in the ggz. Then it was about the BOPZ, the lockdown law, but now it's about the law on compulsory mental health care, a treatment law. It is in line with my motivation: to stand up for vulnerable people who do not have the strongest voice. These people deserve our warm attention, our care and guidance and a welcome feeling in society. Timely care should be provided to avoid problems. This law is also about caregivers standing next to these ggz patients, under sometimes very difficult circumstances. It may not be the sexiest profession, but these people are invaluable in the lives of ggz patients and their neighbors. They, too, deserve great appreciation and support in order to be able to do this difficult work. They can mean so much in the lives of people who sometimes no longer control their own thoughts or their own actions. At the same time, patients are able to make a valuable contribution to society. It is very important that we all want to see the human being behind the disease. You're not your disease, but you have a disease. The advantage of being a Member of Parliament for ten years is that you can look back and look forward. Because many things have improved since 2007. Steps have been taken towards tailor-made care. There's a lot more care at home. There are outpatient teams, the FACT teams. I see Mr Remmers van Veldhuizen sitting in the gallery. You could almost say he's the founder of the FACT teams. I'd still like to mention him. So there's more concern at home. This concerns personal care, which is aimed at reintegration rather than recording. There is less drive and compulsion and more openness about this. I remember the many debates we have had about urges and coercion in ggz institutions. I'm better now. Isolation cells are increasingly adapted to the needs of vulnerable people. Medical psychiatric units have come for people with comorbidity. The patients and the family are now being taken seriously and have even gained a stronger voice, something that Mr Tanamal has been calling for for years. Transport will adapt to people with mental illness. Then I'm talking about the psycholance. There is now also insight into the need for a low-threshold hotline to which people can call with concern. Then it could be about worrying about people they know or people they don't know. Sometimes these people are in crisis. The intention of such a hotline is that there will then be help. It's been made more public. But we're not there yet. It's much better than it was ten years ago. This deserves a great compliment, but more effort is needed to achieve an inclusive society where there is room for everyone. Human and safe care must be provided in good time to people with a complicated disease. It remains a tough problem in practice. I will mention some of the reasons for this. Society is getting more complicated. People need to do more and be able to come faster. The problems can develop faster. They're also often more intense. There is misunderstanding and less acceptance at a time when many more people live in the neighborhood. In the past, patients were well cared for in the woods. Care does not always fit in with people's needs. There is a lack of effective cooperation in the interests of the patient. Cooperation between municipalities, ggz, police and justice is flawed. I refer to the conclusions of the Hoekstra Committee. There is also a lack of knowledge of society. What do you have to do if someone's confused? Where are you calling? How can you ask for help? What can you do for yourself? Everyone wants to do something. I can't say it enough. If someone falls down on the street and has something physically wrong, we'll call 911. Then we're gonna sit next to it. The person concerned gets a cup of tea and a blanket. Help is in our DNA. If someone is confused, we often look away because we think: complicated, maybe a little scary, what should we do? That's not unwillingness, it's powerless. It demands the will of society to help another. It requires the ggz to have a low-threshold point, so that people know where to get help. Last week we also discussed it in a general discussion: there is not yet a final approach everywhere. It starts with prevention and early warning. Trouble is needed as a warm blanket at the first signs that it is not going well. It must also be recognised and recognised in good time. The aftercare really needs to be put in order. People get lost in the system and in the rules, which also makes people fall out. Suppose you don't have your mind in order and are released into our care system... There's still too little 24/7 care in the neighborhood. The FACT teams are here, but they're not all at full power yet. There are fewer beds and that is good, because we do not want people to stay in an institution, but rather to re-integrate them at home. But then make sure there's enough care in the neighborhood. He's not here yet. The Trimbos Institute gave a clear but also painful overview of this. Evening and daily spending are not yet available for everyone and everywhere. Those long, lonely, empty evenings that can be a black hole for people with mental problems sometimes cause problems. So there are still a lot of improvements that need to be worked together. In addition to everything that is going well, there is therefore a problem of implementation. That's mostly in cooperation. It is also a cultural problem. The new law on compulsory ggz can improve this, but the real effectiveness, i.e. better care for people with mental illness, will mainly be achieved if the conditions are met. In summary, these are: timely help, a home, daily spending and a network to fall back on, so that you have someone around you. This law is the last resort, when it comes to coercion. I'm on the law myself. This law contains many practical solutions to practical problems. It's a treatment law. I called that up 10 years ago from this place in my maiden speech. Today, we're treating him. That's important. The Labour Party wholeheartedly supports the principles of this law. From the patient's perspective, we're moving from lockdown laws to treatment laws. There is better care that suits someone, based on a care plan. The care is personal and can also be given to the home. The law is more focused on preventing compulsion and less rapid failure. The law is more focused on re-integrating. It is very important, as I have just said, that there is a stronger position for family and patients and for all those around them. Those are the people who have daily to do with the beautiful and less beautiful sides of someone. They can almost smell, feel, taste: now things are going well, but now we need a tooth; now we need care. If you ask me what is the most beautiful part of this law, it is that the position of these people has been strengthened. This must, of course, be followed up in practice, with sufficient support and budget, but for the time being it looks very good. The experience experts are also very important. Their input must not be unused. Experience experts are deployed in all possible ways from their strength, knowledge and expertise, to help and support other people who also have a picture of illness and who may be in a phase where experience experts have been before. In this way, we ensure that everyone in society stands together from their strength to ensure that problems are avoided. It is also important for municipalities to have a contact point. Where are you going? Who has coordination and responsibility? Also make sure that the information is there and that it is shared within the limits of the law and with respect for privacy. In short, this law is a step in the right direction, to help people with mental illness who do not want to receive care or are difficult to lead to care, a step in the right direction. We also have concerns, you will not be surprised. There are concerns about whether the framework conditions to provide faster and better care are met, both outside and within the legal framework. The concerns will be mentioned in a number of blocks, and I can say that I will end with the observation measure and the crisis measure. The first question we have asked ourselves is whether the patient's interest has been adequately safeguarded. All this starts with early warning: one phone number, one place. When will the central number be ready? 24/7 care in the neighborhood, sufficient FACT teams: there is the greatest chance of preventing problems caused by mental illness from getting out of control unnecessarily. I can't say it enough. This is not due to the observation measure, but to the FACT teams, by the people who provide very intensive care, day and night if necessary. People who take a step back when things get better, but keep monitoring and step back when they need to. That is what all our attention and energy must go to. If those people are on top of it, then very often you don't need observation permission or all kinds of compulsion. That's where it's in, except it's not in order yet. Therefore, I do not want to know from the Minister what instruments she has. I believe that's what a colleague asked for. We want to know how we can monitor very accurately from the Chamber whether things are really going better. Ten years ago, there were a few teams. Now it's 400, but they're not everywhere yet and they're not all at full strength either. We must continue to follow that with all of us. I'm coming up on self-restraint. It's been mentioned for a while. We have heard examples of people saying: help, I need help! They were in a police station, they were in a ggz institution or on the street. They asked for help, but they didn't. That is one of the biggest problems. Very often we see that people have problems, but for some reason they do not get the care they need. How are we gonna make sure people who ask for help get them, too? What role does self-binding play in this? How do we ensure that there is always hospitality? People should always be welcome. Someone who calls has a concern and is alone. Let us make sure that we do not lose sight of these people, because that is at the heart of the problem: if we lose sight of those people, it will end badly. We read that health insurers will play an important role. We are wondering what exactly this is about. Are they buying enough FACT teams? There's a discussion about that. One says we need more, but the health insurance company doesn't deliver it. Then you can talk about a duty of care, but there has to be that care, especially for confused people. However, the health insurance companies also wrote something very nice in their letter. They argued in their interest.I think they meant "the interest of the insured" and wrote: we are working with municipalities to work together in those FACT teams, but then we find that people have no daily spending or no work and the whole concept of care falls together like a house of cards. I found that a striking appeal, because it is a warm call from the health insurance companies. The key question is: who takes the lead and who is responsible for it? If we just say we're gonna find something, but nobody's gonna take the lead and it's not measurable and testable, then everyone's right, but maybe it's not happening at the right pace. Then there's that one hotline per town. Municipalities are now officially given the task of having that one central point. How can it be ensured that municipalities do not set up their own points, but that they fit in with working methods, initiatives and authorities with knowledge of things that are already there and are already in the process? I would like to mention the example of the GGD Flevoland, which is now carrying out a pilot on the blue room. If there is a feeling that something is wrong with someone, that something is going on, then the person is picked up and brought to a blue room, where a public ggz employee goes to see who is needed there. Is there a need for a psychiatrist, an urge or a compulsion or support? That's actually going really well. What I particularly like about this pilot is that they said a bit on his Rotterdams in Flevoland: not bullshit, but polish. In Flevoland, they do the same thing. They did a really good thing there. That's where the professionals are gonna tell us how to do it, how to help those vulnerable people, and then they're gonna look at what the added value is. Only then will they see how the system should be organised, how powers are transferred and how it will be financed, and that is fantastic. It is, however, in stark contrast to the letter we received from the VNG, because it said that the contact point in the municipalities is nice, but we want money and we need to talk about it in the context of the Financial Relationship Act. That's a little disappointing. First, I think professionals can best figure out how to find each other. There comes a plan, and then the plan follows the money. The question to the Minister is therefore the following. How can we prevent the VNG, when it says it wants that money to set up a hotline, from destroying an existing structure, which is already running very well? Of course, this is not the intention of the VNG, but it could be that, for good reasons, municipalities do not fit in with the good that already exists. We have seen this a number of times. That is why I am explicitly asking for it, especially because it is a pity as such a fine example as that from Flevoland is not being continued. There is also regional consultation. We think that's very good. All parties come together in that. They discuss how people in their region are doing. Police, justice, municipalities, everything is there, but the only ones missing are the people who matter. That's crazy. It happens often that patients are not present while it is about them. We would find it interesting whether a delegation of patients and clients should be able to participate in such a consultation rather than those who themselves need complex care. Why? That is interesting because they can perform the Luis-in-De-Pel function par excellence. They can say: listen, ladies and gentlemen, these are good intentions, but we are now thinking about the system. That is a very strange phenomenon in the Netherlands: before you know it, we are talking about the system and not about people anymore. If we put these people in, they can keep this place alert. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she would like to add them to the discussion and make sure that they really have a position and a role. I was just talking about cooperation. It's been tested and evaluated. It has been strongly recommended that cooperation should really improve. Parties must find each other and information must be shared at local level. My question to the Minister is this: has the task of evaluating how cooperation is going and how cases are going? Is that being followed, is that being reported? I am not waiting for a huge amount of bureaucracy, but I often hear from all kinds of cooperation and consultation bodies, from all kinds of consultation tables, that people go home and say: we have a nice meeting, but is this helping anyone better? I had the Almere police tell me about this. Then I heard really poignant examples. So I am looking for a way not only to set up chat clubs but also to see how they can be accountable and testable. The idea must be to do your job better every day. After all, it is a very complicated task. I'm coming up on outpatient compulsion care. That is a new possibility in the law, and it is very important that there is. It is a valuable addition, because it makes people independent of an institution. Previously, you had to take care of an institution, and now people are being followed. Where are you best placed? What is the most healing environment for you? However, the police warns about outpatient compulsion care. There has been a consultation paragraph or, to put it this way, a lobbying paragraph added to this law; for which the Minister is complimented. There's an interesting letter in there. The police warns that the primary condition for monitoring is that local care is represented in the neighbourhood in such a way that worrying signals about patients are detected in a timely manner and maximum effort is made to intervene in time if necessary and to arrange appropriate care. In current practice, these conditions are not sufficiently guaranteed, according to the police, housing and many health care institutions. The question also arises: if this is such an important condition for preventing it from getting out of hand, how can this be improved measurablely? That's the question I'm asking the Minister. I come up with aftercare. Aftercare is also a precaution at the same time. If someone does not have a judicial or civil title, that does not mean that there is no responsibility to provide good care. Good care must always be provided and a judicial title must be prevented at all times. Following the termination of coercive measures, the local partners' efforts should be provided in an appropriate life-time structure, i.e. housing, daily spending, labour. That must be permanent for a longer period. This can prevent patients from falling back or slipping into nuisance or criminal behavior. I understand the police say so. I would say that it is a very big blow for those people when that happens, but there are other reasons. Who is in charge of drawing up, implementing and checking such plans? Who's contactable? How can it be measured or actually improve? I ask this very strongly because the Hoekstra Committee has also noted a lot of implementation problems. So let's focus on how it can be done better in the implementation rather than on all kinds of legal instruments at the back, because the solution is mainly on the front. Then the Social Security Improvement Programme in the Justice Department. This includes the measure that the Public Prosecutor plays a leading role in the preparation and decision-making of mandatory care and data sharing. What is the analysis on the basis of which this system change is expected to lead to previous and better care, which benefits people in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u52	I would like to take a look back at the Hoekstra Committee. It has made very interesting recommendations and is currently being followed up on how this is going. However, that is being let go. I understand that that follows the monitoring procedure, as it is called so beautifully in our Would it not be a good thing to allow this to continue, because we can learn a lot from those recommendations on the practice that Mrs Bouwmeester talked about and it is good to stay focused on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u53	I fully agree with Mrs Leijten. We had a parliamentary investigation on TBs once. This had to do with people with complicated problems and also a criminal title. I believe that there were 14 recommendations and we have followed them for a very long time as a Chamber: what is going well and what is not going well? Some of them related to the ggz and some of them we no longer follow, but we see that this is still necessary. I am very much in favour of that. On three different subjects, I asked the Minister how we could monitor them. I hope she will come up with a good answer, or else we will give her a good proposal. The Public Prosecutor is now given a social role from a civilian point of view. It concerns the transfer of duties and powers from the medical director to the prosecutor. This requires a great deal from the judiciary, and this is going to cost a lot of energy, time and money. It requires a huge cultural change. Cases are still being investigated, such as when a public prosecutor should or should not appear at the hearing and how to ensure that the question of care is given a higher priority in the case of the judiciary, because it did not have one. The question is what kind of research is now being carried out. Is that a qualitative study or is it going to be a financial assessment? If you have to do as much as justice, if you transfer so much from care to justice because you think it's so important, you also have an important task to follow and financially underpin it. We need to be sure that the right knowledge and expertise go to justice, that people are trained and that there will be a cultural change, but also that people are given the skills to deal with very complicated psychological problems. The Labour Party is so keen on this because we really want to ensure that we are going to create a system solution to a problem of implementation. We're transferring something to the Justice Department now, but are we doing the right thing? And if we do that, are the preconditions settled? Hopefully the Minister can apologize, maybe it's the Secretary of State for taking away our concerns. It doesn't matter, Justice and VWS both get to answer it. We would also like an impact monitor on how things are getting better with the justice system. People want to go there too, but it has to be possible. Then I'll come to the observation measure. After that, I will deal with the crisis measure and then my speech will be over, as I say to the President. New in the law is the intended observation measure, a measure that empowers mayors to have people locked up for three days and have them observed in a ggz institution without any care being provided. Let me say first of all that the PvdA also sees the personal and social importance of being able to intervene in good time if necessary, but we want to pay particular attention to the impact this measure may have on patients. Being forced into prison has a huge impact. This could be extremely traumatic. My thoughts have never been so confused, but I can imagine it's bad if I'm forced into the hospital. But if someone's got scared images of him being grabbed and locked up and that's what happens, then that's super-high. Really, we can't be light-footed about that. That is precisely why the system should work in such a way that, before the situation escalates, we do everything we can to prevent a crisis in someone, which means that there is no need for coercion. This is for the benefit of the individual and for the benefit of society. We see that this necessary concern is not always present at an early stage. That's painful. In my speech I discussed this in detail. My group is wondering: is it then proportionate to create a legal title with which people can be forced to be included and not given care, while in practice not everything is in order that we can and should do? Here too, it is not only a question of whether the system works, but also of the human side. What does it mean for a person to be observed for up to three days, to be locked up, not to be allowed to leave, that another person determines where he is, and not to receive care? What are the consequences after those three days? The Labour Party also has a number of questions about the effectiveness of this measure. To what extent is it likely that after three days you can diagnose people who do not want to cooperate at all, especially those who are locked up against their will? Connection between patient and caregivers is a condition for providing good care. This connection is rather under pressure when a patient is locked up; then I still gently express it. We are afraid that an additional measure at the back will prevent us from doing the best we can in order to improve the way we work in the front and thus to avoid problems. Unfortunately, we know many examples of people who have done very bad things under the influence of a mental illness and who were also in the picture at that time. They asked for help. They needed it. They were known. Everyone was crying out for help. But they didn't. This is the largest group of people we have to protect now. The biggest problem is here. That is why I have paid so much attention to this in my speech. In view of the arguments listed and the limited legal status of the patient, we consider the observation measure to be disproportionate. The Labour Party does support the intended purpose, but not the chosen means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u54	If Mrs Bouwmeester states that she does support the goal but not the means, what should be changed about what is now in store so that Mrs Bouwmeester would think that the stakes are proportional? The CDA colleague has tabled an amendment on legal protection which sets out a direction on that point. Could Mrs Bouwmeester indicate a little more what is needed now, so that we can work towards the goal? Is that a passable road at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u55	The people I was just talking about were in the picture. They were crying out for help. They were known. The family was wrong. Everyone looked at it and did nothing. We shouldn't be watching these people. Those people should get help if things go wrong. In this group of people the problem is not that one has no idea what disorder they have, because that is often known. For them, therefore, the observation measure is not a solution. It has been about the observation measure for a long time now, but what is the biggest problem in society? I understand that the observation measure is intended for a tiny, tiny group of people, who are rightly concerned and whose care does not come in. What are you supposed to do? As Mrs Leijten rightly pointed out, this is not a very annoying term: 'the ticking time bombs'. It's not about them. It's about a very small, ionic group of people. We have to look at it super carefully. At this point, we need to consider: what more can we do to tempt them to care? From the field, the patients, the family, the experience experts and the caregivers, I hear: we can do a lot more, and when we have them, we're not gonna observe them, but we're gonna help them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u56	If you yourself find that it will most likely be a small group and you make a glowing argument about the importance of meddling, caring and sitting at the front, wouldn't it be worth helping that person, even if it's just one person who falls under the right conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u57	Helping is by caring, not by observing. You're gonna have to weigh it up. You can say "if we only help one," but that assumes that you lock up nine people, fasten them up and limit them in their freedom, what kind of people with mental problems that can be there may be several people who are extremely traumatising. It is not a weekend of rest, just sit somewhere; cozy, nice chatting with a cup of coffee. It's not that. Someone picks you up, takes you away and puts you in an institution. It locks the door, and there's nowhere for you to go. They're gonna watch you. That's what happens. Is it then justified to say "if it does not harm it" and "we saved one"? No, it hurts. It hurts people a lot. It must therefore be the very last resort. Other options are possible for this, which I have already mentioned outside the legal instruments. If the whole field of patients, clients, family and caregivers says "this measure is not necessary; we can do otherwise, but then we have to be able to deliver care in time, 24/7 in the neighborhood," then with this option at the front we are not going to create anything legal at the back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u59	I'd like to leave the qualifications to you. My position is: shouldn't you want to use every instrument that can actually offer a solution to help these people, no matter how large that group is? Of course, as a last resort. It has also been formulated in this law, with an additional guarantee that you can also have a judge check whether it meets the criteria. Then why do you abandon these people and do you not give up the care and the meddling you advocated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u60	It's a lot to say you're abandoning people when you're against the observation measure. It is quite something to say: we must use every instrument. It doesn't benefit a little bit, it doesn't harm. If we save one, nine will have trauma because they've been locked up for three days. What does that do to anyone? It's quite a thing to say "may offer a solution." In the tbs, an observation takes seven weeks. This concerns people with various problems. Seven weeks. The carers I've been talking to say, three days, you have nothing more or less than the three days before, but what you do have is that people with trauma come out of the observation. It's a lot to say: you're abandoning people. Or should you say: we should protect people from unnecessary recording, because in those three days we can't do what we want to do? Then I am going to reach out to you, because your intentions are good, as are those of the creators of the law and of everyone who is working on this subject. We're not those confused people. We hate watching these people slip. I do not want to create a contradiction. I don't want to make it seem like you don't mind, but we don't think this means is proportionate. We think there are other possibilities. That's what carers think, if they get the opportunity to work with FACT teams at full strength earlier, more often and more intensively in the neighbourhood. We think that's a better solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u61	I have a question on another point. I would first like to correct that I mentioned time bombs when I cited the minister. We are talking today about the Law mandatory ggz, but certainly also about the Law care and coercion. The Labour Party has always been a warm advocate of the patient confidant, an independent person standing next to you, who is reliable and independent of the institution where you sit. He'll help you. I wondered what the PvdA thinks about this position in the Health and Force Act being created by the Chamber, but not independently positioned. I have tabled an amendment on this subject, together with Mrs Voortman. I was wondering what the Labour Party thought of that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u62	We are in favour of independent positioning of support, because that way you create the most guarantees that someone gets what he needs and what suits him. If you could do that better, we're always in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u63	That's good to hear. In addition, I have a question about the positioning of the BOPZ doctor. If an institution in the care of the elderly or the disabled has a BOPZ permit, the doctor is currently looking into coercive care, its phasing-out, the alternatives and so on. In the Law of care and compulsion, that is completely dropped. By means of an amendment, I argued in favour of putting that doctor back in there. That is a degree of legal protection, also for those who work in the care sector, as I say in connection with the little debate on the interruption. How does the Labour Party feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u64	We are also in favour of this. We think it is important for an independent person to watch and ask the question: what is happening here? You have to take care of that in a good and smart way. The question is, why do you regulate that differently in one law than in the other law? I am curious about the reaction of the cabinet to this, but the starting point is: to watch independently, to regulate independently. When it comes to coercion, you have to be extremely cautious and install all possible security safeguards so that someone gets timely help and is protected from intervention by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u65	Thank you. Or weren't you finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u66	No, I want to say a few words about the crisis measure. After that, I'm done. Of course, the crisis measure also applies: only use as an ultimatum remedium. This measure may be used, inter alia, where there is an immediate and imminent serious disadvantage with a serious suspicion of mental illness. This too cannot and must not be handled lightly, and that is precisely why the hearing obligation has been introduced. My compliments to the cabinet for that. On this basis, on behalf of the mayor or the mayor himself, an extreme effort must always be made to get in touch with the patient. We are therefore concerned that we have received a letter from the mayors which states that 'we should remove the obligation to hear' and that 'it is bureaucracy and additional workload for the mayor'. They probably don't mean it the way they wrote it down, but we always choose the patient's perspective. There are also signs that the concept of 'immediately' is quite different in practice. On the one hand, freedom for professionals to complete it is highly desirable and a crisis measure should be considered on a case-by-case basis. On the other hand, uncertainty about what "immediately" means is undesirable, because it can cause great differences in interpretation. The case law on the use of the ibs, as it is still called, shows that the assessment of "threatening" per case differs. In practice, in the case of crises, there is more room for a mayor than seems to be the case at present. I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Can the Minister send the Court the existing case law on this matter? Is the Minister prepared to ask the field to elaborate on the open standard "immediately" so that it becomes clearer when to use it? If the field itself arranges it, then the mayors know better where they stand. I'm rounding up. What a complicated world it is when you look through the eyes of people with a mental illness who no longer have control over their own thoughts and their own actions. You don't understand the world, and the world doesn't understand you. How lonely can you be? And what is the system world of care incredibly complicated! How complicated it is to find your way into it, when it is so necessary. We have a duty to protect these people and reach out to them. It is my motivation to make the care of these people a little better every day and to bring them closer and to ensure that their voice, their question, is the starting point for everything we do here and decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u67	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a long preparation time, and some parties are calling for rapid treatment and rapid implementation. I would like to point out to those parties that the Law on Special Admission to Psychiatric Hospitals, the BOPZ Act, has taken 20 years of preparation. We are dealing here with legislation that allows for compulsory admission or for forced treatment. This violates the right of self-determination of individuals and contains various fundamental and ethical objections. I would therefore like to stress that care here prevails over speed. The original Wvggz bill had a number of goals that were a clear improvement on the current BOPZ Act. In view of the fact that these objectives were formulated a while ago, namely in 2010, I would like to highlight in particular the first two here. The first objective was to strengthen the legal status of persons with mental illness who are given care against their will. The second objective was to avoid coercion as much as possible and to limit the duration of coercion. In the past period, the original bill has been almost completely rewritten, but the goals and principles remain unchanged, so we can read in the letter of amendment. Is that really true? If I study the legal position of the patient, I will conclude that measures are being taken which undermine the legal position. For example, the possibility of appeal against the authorisation of care has been withdrawn. Since the care authorisation legitimizes deprivation of liberty and coercive measures, appeal should be possible. I would therefore ask the Minister to make this appeal possible again, as originally envisaged in this bill. Also the extension of concepts does not improve the legal status of the patient. For example, the term "danger" in the BOPZ Act has been replaced by the term "damage" and then replaced by the term "disadvantage," while I think the term "danger" simply suffices. In addition, the concept of "danger" has been the subject of case law for many years, thus clarifying its interpretation. This must be done again with the much broader concept of disadvantage to be interpreted. This disadvantage is particularly detrimental to the patient and I do not see how it strengthens his or her legal position. Can the Minister comment on this? However, the greatest undermining of the patient's legal position is the observation measure. On the basis of a serious suspicion, a person can be locked up for observation for up to three days. The PVV Group considers this to be a serious violation of the fundamental right to freedom and self-determination. It is also contrary to the second objective of the original law, the prevention of coercion. I have therefore co-signed Mr Leijten's proposed amendment to delete the observation measure from this legislative proposal. I welcome the majority of the House to delete this observation measure. Force is not a concern and should be avoided as much as possible. However, this law allows more coercion than the BOPZ. The connection to the DSM classification with regard to the definition of mental disorder also means an extension of the target group. The first DSM started with 106 disorders, the fifth DSM has 350. We have spoken critically about this before, because it would mean that one in five Dutch people has a mental disorder. This makes it very easy to arrange a care authorisation or to force someone to care in the home situation. What is the real reason why a coercive treatment should take place at home? Is that because of cost considerations due to the downgrading of beds, or to avoid waiting lists? What does it show that outpatient compulsion care at home is effective? Research in the United Kingdom and the United States has shown that compulsion care at home is not effective. And what is this compulsion? Is the door locked, should medication be administered under duress or urine collected? Isn't it possible for someone to go to an outpatient clinic or another hotline? Being forced into your own home is quite an invasion of your privacy. Your home should be a safe environment and you should not be forced into certain actions. Is compulsion at home really necessary? If so, how is staff safety guaranteed? Their work is a lot more risky without the protected environment of an institution, surrounded by colleagues. We are also concerned about privacy because of the obligation to provide information. Parents, for example, should be required to be informed. Does that also apply if the person concerned is 50 years old and his parents are 80 years old? To quote the first objective of the original law: how does this contribute to strengthening the patient's position? This law should lead to less and less coercive care. I am afraid, however, that understanding blurring and retraction reduces the threshold for coercive care and creates an increase in coercive applications. Can this be properly monitored? Is there a working registration system yet? Shouldn't there be a committee of review that evaluates ex post coercion? It will be clear that the PVV Group still has serious doubts about this bill. We are therefore looking forward to the Minister's answers. The field has indicated that it is broadly in favour of this law, at least the law that was initially before it. We'll definitely take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u68	The debate has already discussed two sides of this coin. On the one hand, there is the protection of the individual and the freedoms for the individual. On the other hand, there is the protection of society as a whole. The contribution of the PVV does not in any way address the question of whether society should be protected. Is that right? Did I miss that? Doesn't the PVV think that's relevant anymore? Can Mrs Klever shed her light on that one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u69	The whole idea of this law is that it's a treatment law and not a recording law. This law is about care, about people who need care. That is the most important issue in this law. There must be as little compulsion as possible. I understand that Mr De Lange is again referring to the reason why the observation measure is so necessary. I would just like to say that, in order to protect society, we also have the crisis measure in this law. The field has also spoken about this and has said that the crisis measure is satisfactory in its view and that the observation measure is not necessary for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u70	I am referring to the broad thrust of the law, which requires a balance to be struck with the protection of society. I don't hear Mrs Klever talking about that at all. Here's what I'm wondering. Where the PVV is very often concerned about all kinds of developments and speaks directly of them, does the PVV then have the impression that the people in the Netherlands who are worried about their situation, their living environment, about what is happening in the street and about the changes will feel addressed if the PVV does not pay any attention to what this bill would do in terms of the protection of society as a whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u71	I think that's a very strange question. This law is about coercive care, which we need to limit. People who cause nuisances don't have enough care. That's what we need to look at, taking care of the people. Public order is, of course, also an important issue, but I do not think that this law was initially appropriate. This law is important for people who need care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u72	Madam President. Legislation is often about balancing, but this subject requires a special balancing art, including from the legislator. On the one hand, it is incredibly far-reaching when one's freedom of movement is restricted and one is subject to mandatory care. It is also a very far-reaching act, from a constitutional point of view. But on the other hand, if people are a danger to themselves or society and they do not get the care they need at the time, then there is a great deal going wrong on the side of protecting themselves and society. So it all listens very closely. That is why I think this legislative process and previous legislative processes have taken a long time and it is always extensive. Just after the Van U. case, which has been mentioned a number of times today, it seems very clear to me that the current legislation is not satisfactory. I would also like to stress this because the Hoekstra Committee has said that it is an example of a person with an urgent need for care who did not voluntarily cooperate in this. He was a danger to himself and to others, but the possibilities of resorting to forced care in situations of this kind, i.e. under the laws in force so far, were limited. The information of the family has not been used or has only been used with great difficulty. The committee also said that, at the moment, the police do not actually have the power to take persons with an urgent need for care and who pose a major risk to safety off the streets without a criminal record. That's a big deal! People with an urgent need for care, who also pose a major risk to safety, can, under the current rules, even if this cooperation would be much better, not actually be taken off the streets and given care, with all the fatal consequences. That is the seriousness, I think, that is the issue with this bill. The committee also noted that this bill, which we can now finally discuss, fortunately already contains improvements for that purpose. It has, of course, also been explicitly considered against the background of the Hoekstra Committee. Hence the later letter of amendment. But isn't there a need for further tightening? Once again, it is very good that we can talk about this today, after we have done this, after we have done it, after we have done it, after we have done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u73	I always like it when Mr Van der Staaij talks about balancing. I also heard him make a comment about which I keep grinding. He said we need to protect vulnerable people so that things don't get out of hand. And: working together with a little bit isn't doing any better. Is it not at the heart of the Hoekstra Committee that, in all those terrible cases where things have gone so wrong, the problem was not a little bit of cooperation, but a lot of cooperation and not the question of whether there was another legal measure for coercion was the problem, but just that someone in the middle of society was crying out for help, but they did nothing? That was the core of Hoekstra. Did you see anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u74	I'd like to say both. It is true: better cooperation could have prevented a great deal of misery. At the same time, the Hoekstra Committee did not say: go quickly and work well together, because then everything will be fine. She also said: legislation on mandatory mental health care is really needed. In fact, the committee said that, in anticipation of that law, we should have a temporary law or an emergency law in order for certain repairs to take place here. As far as I'm concerned, it's very explicit and-and-and-so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u75	Many thanks for the clarification. Now I understand what Mr Van der Staaij is saying. The law is also needed in the sense that all those family members who said that their neighbor had to be helped because things went wrong have now really got a position. Those parts of the law are certainly in addition to working very hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u76	Does Mr Van der Staaij think that the SGP could be a reason for forced care in the area of public policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u77	In general terms, problems of public order sound too obvious to me. This can also be about someone who can indeed cause some inconvenience because of certain mental disorders. That cannot be a reason for far-reaching restrictions on freedom of movement. A very serious threat to public order in the sense that someone is actually a danger can of course be a reason for coercive measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yes, but the "danger" or even "disadvantage" criterion, which is a weakening of it, is of course already formulated in this law. So I have also been looking for what the Hoekstra Committee has meant by that. I think the law already provides for that. A problem of public order sec cannot lead to forced care or forced observation. I'm glad the SGP admits that. If it is about danger or serious disadvantage, I believe it is already provided for when I read the law, without the observation measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u79	I don't want to narrow the discussion down to the observation measure, but it's the whole law that matters to me. The Hoekstra Committee says that the law as it was then, without the later notes of amendment, was already a major leap forward. I'll be right back to the observation measure. First of all, I would like to stress that we fully agree with the objectives of this legislative proposal. I am also pleased that there is broad consensus in the Chamber on parts of this law, i.e. the minimal application of coercion and then only in the least profound form, so the idea is always: coercion as a last resort and prevention is better than cure. This also applies to the strengthening of the legal status of people with mental impairment. It's not a recording law, it's a treatment law. One important point, as mentioned in Mrs Bouwmeester's interruption, is to strengthen the role of the patient's family and relatives. Those are points I would like to mention, because we continue to fight over hot potatoes in every legal process, but that must not be seen to be a very good thing in this law. Every time I try to read the text of the law, in addition to the explanatory documents, I try to read it quietly. You come a long way into this law without getting lost in all sorts of references. It is a very clear, clearly written law, even with all the notes of amendment, when you begin to read from the beginning, so also compliments for the legislative lawyers who have worked on it. Then I come to the observation measure, sort of the hottest potato. There has been a lot of criticism. In the meantime, there is an amendment, which is indeed a majority of the House, to delete it. I think it is important to have a good discussion about it first. Can the government say again why it considers this observation measure necessary? For what situations are all the other instruments in the Law on compulsory mental health care, including the crisis measure, not sufficient? Would it perhaps be possible to adapt the instruments so that it is sufficient for the situation mentioned by the Minister? Do we really need the observation measure? There has been reference to this crisis measure, but I have to admit to the government that this is not an easy alternative either. On that crisis measure, Article 7 states that it must be an immediate threat of serious harm. That's a pretty strict requirement, isn't it? This sets a fairly high standard for the crisis measure. That's not because something could happen in two or three weeks. No, that's really not enough for that crisis measure. Then I thought: yes, but wait, why do I hear so little about Article 7.3? There is, even if you don't hear much about it. This concerns compulsory care prior to the decision on the crisis measure. Well, if you're not very close to that observation measure, I was wondering. The government says, in my opinion convincingly, that this is not just an alternative either, because in the legal text there is a link to the fact that you must assume that a crisis measure will be taken. The first paragraph of Article 7.3 states: "Preliminary to the decision on a crisis measure, mandatory care may be provided to a person for a short period of time if it can reasonably be assumed that a crisis measure will be taken." My question is whether, in that first paragraph, you cannot delete those words 'if there is reason to believe that a crisis measure will be taken'. Then you'll lighten the link to that crisis measure a little bit. Then you do not say that it can only be done if it is actually expected to be imposed prior to the crisis measure, because that is precisely what you want to investigate with that observation measure. In this way, you can bring what is intended by the observation measure into the investigation prior to a decision on a crisis measure. In any case, that is a suggestion for the government I would like to put forward. I see that we have to be careful of stacking; so do Mrs Leijten and others. I can also see that in the observation measure, legal protection is on the weak side. That is why I am in any case referring to Mrs Bruins Slot's amendment to item No. 60, the purpose of which is to enable a more rapid judicial test to be issued, have co-signed. I would like an answer to the question as to whether this could be an alternative. I'm going to go into "serious disadvantage or danger." In Mrs Leijten's interruption, it also emerged. Compared to the old law, this is a striking change in the jargon of the current law, in the language we use. I know that a lot has been exchanged in writing, but I would still like to hear an oral explanation: is not a material extension really the same as the previous hazard criterion or is this really a substantive change? I have just referred to the Hoekstra Committee. In an interruption, Mrs Leijten asked Mrs Bouwmeester whether it would be appropriate to continue to monitor whether the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee are being followed in practice and are being properly implemented. I would like to endorse that question. I would like to support not saying too quickly that we no longer need further monitoring. The second letter of amendment restores the public prosecutor's office to the party asking the court to issue an authorisation. This is now also the case under the BOPZ Act. Under the current BOPZ Act, the criticism has been expressed that the Public Prosecutor's Office cannot fully fulfil that role. Can the government indicate on the basis of which it assumes that the Public Prosecutor can fulfil that role under this law? What are the preconditions for this? New in this bill is that mandatory care outside the care facility, i.e. in people's homes, can be allowed under conditions. If someone who receives forced care, for example, refuses to take certain medications, a compulsory withdrawal will still be possible. How can it be properly assessed in the home situation whether the treatment has been successful at home or whether the patient should be admitted? We have only just heard in a debate on care that in the whole healthcare sector there is a definite number one demand that we finally want to be rid of a lot of administrative burdens and regulatory burdens. I believe that we have a duty to address this question very clearly in every law. This law, too, obliges the necessary, inevitable exchange of information and demand for information. Of course, the fact that different standards or information questions can be used in each municipality or region does not help at all. How can the government ensure that municipalities in the field of the exchange of information in the case of compulsory care are in any case aligned and use the same standards? The SGP voted against the Health and Force Act at the time. Although we saw that this law would have many advantages, we were still very concerned about the bureaucratic burden on practice. In particular, the obligation to follow the roadmap for both the light and the heavy forms, with various scaling-ups over time, can be such that employees spend far too much time with it while in some lighter situations they feel that it really does not serve a sensible purpose. We raised this in the 2013 debate. Then it was said from the field that it was all not so bad, but now you hear that criticism from the field a bit stronger. The second letter of amendment to the law on compulsory mental health care states that the step-by-step plan does not need to be completed if medication is prescribed according to the professional guidelines. This is a justified adjustment, but we are asking whether this can also be done in the case of other involuntary care for which there is a professional directive. Indeed, Article 8:5 of the legislative proposal also provides for compulsory mental health care to be provided on the basis of directives. That is why I am only trying once again with the amendment to item No. 57 the Health and Force Act on this point to align more with the standard of the Law on compulsory mental health care. With this amendment, I specifically aim to make tailor-made work possible by allowing the roadmap to apply only to forms of involuntary care for which no professional directive has been developed. That is therefore contained in the amendment to item No. 57. I would like to hear a response to this amendment. The Care and Force Act introduces the concept of "caretaker," which identifies the person responsible for drawing up and updating the care plan. As regards the question of who may be responsible for care, the explanatory statement states that "Consciously, the function of the person making the care plan, the person responsible for care, has been chosen not to fill in further details but to leave to the healthcare providers the level of care provider best suited for that purpose. This scheme will apply to a wide range of types of housing and institutions. In a large institution one may choose a nurse, other care providers opt for an orthopedagogic eye and others for a nurturing one. Of course, here too, the provider will have to check whether, with the designation of certain persons, he meets the criteria of the Quality Act for health care institutions. Indeed, laying down the responsibility for drawing up care plans, including provisions on coercion, on someone who is not qualified to do so leads to irresponsible care. The medical part of a healthcare plan will obviously have to be completed by a doctor." Honestly, I thought that was a convincing argument. Later, in the second letter of amendment relating to the Law on compulsory mental health care, we saw that this came back and that this responsibility should always fall to a doctor or to "the person belonging to a category of experts designated by our Minister." We then wondered whether this would be necessary, whether this would not give us any more red tape and whether we would not be able to stick to the original text. We have included this in the amendment to item No. 54. Finally, on house rules. Both in the Law on compulsory mental health care and in the Law on care and compulsion, the possibility of setting house rules is strictly limited. In the Law of care and compulsion, it is limited to what is necessary for an orderly course of action. The Mental Health Act adds the safety in the accommodation or institution to that. Isn't that too tightly formulated, as clients can also opt for a healthcare provider that fits their lifestyle or cultural background? Can it no longer be allowed to draw up house rules with the aim of creating a good living environment without disadvantages for clients who have deliberately chosen a provider that suits them? If an accommodation focuses on vegetarians, is it crazy that something like this comes back in its house rules, so it says that the kitchen only prepares vegetarian dishes? Is it appropriate to allow the individual right to prevail here? So much for my questions and the comments. I look forward to the answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u80	Mr. Chairman. For a last speaker, of course, it is always the point that much has already been said for her or for him. Colleagues have already described the history of these and other laws on compulsory care. I must honestly say that I had no longer thought that we could deal with this law on compulsory mental health care before the elections. This law has been working on for years. There is also a great demand for it. At the same time, it is very important that we take great care in this regard. As far as I'm concerned, we're not rushing into this. Indeed, it has been said a number of times: this law is about the balance between the protection of the individual and the protection of society. With all the changes, there is now a very interesting legislative proposal, which will give more direction to patients and relatives. This law is also more focused on acting and helping, rather than recording. It is important that we stay focused, that we make full use of all voluntary alternatives before we impose coercion and that we do not get too many process steps or too much legalisation. The medical director must be involved in all steps. The ggz and the prosecutor must be well equipped to fill in the new roles. Above all, we need to keep the focus on care. That is why my group has a number of comments and questions about the current legislative proposal. Anyone can report to the College of B and W if he believes that the need for compulsory care should be investigated. That report could also be anonymous. The College will be notified within fourteen days and, if negative, there will be the possibility of making a direct request to the Public Prosecutor. What I miss in the law is the guarantee to prevent abuse. How do we prevent people from chasing each other? This can happen, for example, in a neighborly fight that got out of hand, to name but a few. What also strikes me in chapter 6 of the law is that the judge cannot oblige the reporter to appear, but suppose that a reporter really wants to be involved in or heard in that process, how does that work? Is it possible to report 24 hours a day? How do the hotlines take shape? How are people informed about this? This proposal has been further developed in the light of the findings of the Hoekstra Committee. The district attorney will be given an important role. He oversees the trial and has an important applicant role towards the medical director. The medical director must always have the care-related direction. I read the bill in such a way that the district attorney always makes a request to the medical director so that he can make a decision based on care. Could it also happen that the prosecutor chooses to apply for a second opinion from another medical director as the first decision not to provide forced care because he doesn't think it's necessary? I would like clarification on this. In the second letter of amendment, the Minister states that it is necessary to ensure that the prosecutors have sufficient knowledge of forced care. How does this relate to the procedural role, the applicant's role? I also have questions about the medical director. In practice, this is almost always a psychiatrist, but why doesn't the Minister state in the law that this should always be a psychiatrist? How is it that the psychiatrist who has to assess whether or not compulsory care is needed should be someone who has not provided care to the person concerned for at least one year? Why is that a one-year deadline? It might even be good if a psychiatrist knows someone when he's doing this assessment. I'm getting to the plan of action. The direction in this bill comes more to the patient and the family than was previously the case. This is also one of the important recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee. Not only will the family be able to ring the bell at the college of B and W or the prosecutor, but the patient will also be able to write their own plan of action together with their relatives, so that mandatory care can be avoided. Are the conditions to be met by the plan clear? They are not defined at all. I would like more information from the Minister on this. Forced care is only legitimate as a last resort. Only then can it be used. D66 also insists on this, just like everyone else did today; we are unusually in the Chamber on this, you might say. The crisis measure allows the mayor to have immediate mandatory care provided. In cases where a care authorisation cannot be waited for, that may be necessary, but it is, of course, the psychiatrist who reports his findings to the mayor in a medical statement. It's gonna take a while. Therefore, the law states that if it is reasonably assumed that the crisis measure will be granted, mandatory care can already be provided. Mr Van der Staaij has just spoken about this. This can be done for up to 18 hours by means of the so-called time-out procedure. A crisis measure of up to three days may then be decided, but that is three working days. I would like to have a reaction from the Minister, because with a weekend in between we will soon be talking about five days in total. Mrs Leijten has also spoken about the accumulation that can arise. There is also uncertainty as to the definition of the word "immediately" in Article 7.1 (1) (a). That's what we've been asked for, so I'll be brief. Why does the Minister not choose to clarify and specify this further? What exactly do we mean by that term "immediately"? The observation measure has already been much discussed. The signature of D66 is also covered by Mrs Leijten's amendment. In case there is a suspicion of mental illness and serious disadvantage and there is a need for research into the nature of the mental disorder, the bill can now choose to lock someone up for up to three days. I will not dwell on it, but I had written down in my preparation what Mrs Bouwmeester just said. I can hardly imagine what it would do for me if I was locked up and observed for three days as a healthy person, let alone what that does to someone who actually needs psychological help. Mrs Leijten's amendment is signed by a majority of the House. However, I would also like to explain our problem with this observation measure. I have a few questions about that, too. I would like to get a response from the Minister to the relationship with the constitutional right to self-determination and the protection of personal integrity. The Minister insists on the observation measure while everyone in the field is actually against that measure. Psychiatrists indicate that, without this measure, they see sufficient possibilities to act in acute situations. Others have also said that this affects confidence. That doesn't help the care process. My question is also: how would a person be able to defend himself against improper use of the measure? Why is it proportional and effective to rob a person for three days of his freedom without a prior judicial test? We have the time-out procedure of the crisis measure. There will then be eighteen hours to form an image of a person concerned and care will already be provided. Why doesn't the Minister choose this? Who exactly has the Minister in mind with the observation measure? How often is it expected to be deployed? In retrospect of who and how often the measure has been used, we, like D66, find an argument too thin. It should be clear that my group does not feel this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u81	There may be people who aren't an immediate threat, but from whom you're wondering if it's going well. What, then, is Mrs Dijkstra's response to those people who would not be able to get to the necessary care in any other way? How does Mrs Dijkstra view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u82	That is exactly why I ask the Minister to define that term 'immediately'. Does that mean "immediately" here and now? Or is "immediately" wider? Could it be in a couple of days? What am I supposed to mean by that? I would like to hear an explanation of that. I would also like to know whether you would not be able to use that understanding to add to that crisis measure the same objective that we all have in mind. That's making it possible for people who need care to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u83	Do I understand from this that Mrs Dijkstra is open to broadening if the current crisis measure and its investigation were to be too narrowly described in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u84	I am very curious to hear what the Minister can say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u85	Mrs Dijkstra made a very valid point about the definition of "immediately." What exactly is that? I hear there's a case law on it. The bandwidth here is somewhere between three hours and two or three weeks. I asked the Minister to send that case law to us, preferably in writing. Then we'll be able to read it properly. Does Mrs Dijkstra support this request?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u86	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u88	I wholeheartedly support that request. Mr. Chairman. I come to the connection between the Law on compulsory mental health care and the Law on care and compulsion psychogeriatric and mentally handicapped clients. The Health and Force Act is now in the First Chamber to be treated in conjunction with the Law on compulsory mental health care. ZonMw advised to make one law for the different target groups. The Health and Force Act is for people with dementia or learning disability, while the Law is mandatory mental health care for people with psychiatric illness. These are two laws, because there are different target groups. However, I fear difficult situations in practice. Under the Law on compulsory mental health care, judicial review is mandatory before compulsory care is provided, but there is no prior judicial review under the Law on care and coercion. This leads us to the fact that it has been said many times today that there are different levels of legal protection. Do the directors see risks here and, if so, how can we cope with them? Wouldn't it be necessary to take care of that here? Also, sometimes terms mean something different. A "care authorisation" in the Law on compulsory mental health care is for all forms of forced care, while "care authorisation" in the Law on care and coercion stands for an admission authorisation. It also differs by law who decides which problem is dominant. In the law on compulsory mental health care, this is determined by the medical director, but in the law on care and coercion, that is determined by the CIZ, the Centre indication care. How do we prevent all kinds of confusion from arising from these differences? I have another point to make in the context of the harmonization of laws. In the second letter of amendment, "serious damage" has been replaced by "serious disadvantage" to align the Law on compulsory mental health care with the Law on care and coercion. The Minister keeps saying that they are similar terms, but I have heard from several lawyers that "serious disadvantage" is something else. This is an overarching term which includes "serious damage." There is a danger that the term "serious disadvantage" will reduce the threshold for coercive application; this has already been mentioned by others. That is why GroenLinks and D66 have amended the amendment to item No. 48 submitted. The minister thinks it takes one year to implement this law, but the field says it takes at least a year and a half. With a simple calculation I will come out on 1 January 2019, at the earliest. Does the Minister share this assessment? Will she promise to listen carefully to the field when it comes to the time needed for implementation? We have often come across that we think that something can be done faster than is ultimately desirable in reality. Does the Minister intend to monitor the costs, efforts and experiences of patients, in other words the practical consequences, including for patients, when the law is introduced? For D66, it is important that information is shared with those concerned in a comprehensible manner. In what way do we monitor whether this is happening and whether people understand what steps need to be taken? Will the Minister take this on the monitor? In what way is a nationwide ICT system provided by different chain partners, where crucial information can be extracted in case someone is not in their own municipality? Such a system with sufficient guarantees of medical professional secrecy does not exist at the moment, does it not? Does the Minister see this as a problem? The Hoekstra Commission advised precisely to provide infrastructure with a good level of security to ensure that information is available at national level. How are we gonna handle this? Rules on how data processing is organised and on what additional safeguards there are or will be, are laid down through a General Management Measure. My question is: will it be there before the law enters into force? It is, of course, important that we have a view on this. I also have a question about data processing. The Minister of V and J shall process data relating to the necessary care necessary for his system responsibility. I can follow that, but also the possibility of storing a person's social security number. In what case is that bsn relevant to the system responsible? Are these data also kept for 15 years, including children from 12 years of age? Who ultimately decides whether data may be kept for more than 15 years? To what extent is a medical director involved? D66 is very pleased with the patient confidant, but can the minister explain exactly who this is and who is going to fund it? Then I have a question about interpretation fees and the right to assistance. If I have understood correctly, this is only offered when there is a lack of freedom. Is that even during the time-out procedure in the crisis measure? This is not yet the case when applying for the care authorisation. Is the Minister prepared to make the interpretation fee available regardless of the form of compulsory care, including during the application for a care authorisation? Then what is going on is clear to all the parties involved. Finally, one small thing. I've heard from everyone that this is a real health bill. That's what D66 says it is. Shouldn't the first signature be made by the VWS Minister, rather than by the Minister of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u89	We shall continue to respond to questions and observations from the first term of office. I will be the first to give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mr. Chairman. Every law is being worked very hard by civil servants. So they don't have to be thanked for every law, because they always work very hard, but in this case I really want to thank them. This has been worked on so incredibly hard, with perseverance and knowledge of the facts that I really want to start by thanking my officials for all the work that has been done in all these years. I am pleased that we are talking here today about this bill, a bill that also amends the proposals in the First Chamber for a Law on care and coercion and a Law on forensic care. So even though we are talking about these two other laws today, I am initially focusing on the Law on compulsory mental health care. Where it is different, I will make that very clear. The two other laws are addressed by the two State Secretarys. There is a great deal to be said about forced care or restrictions on freedom. It's a subject that affects people quickly, and rightly so. The European Convention on Human Rights stipulates that people can only be deprived of their freedom or that they can only be restricted in their freedom in those cases defined by law. This indicates that it is necessary to have good legislation, which sets out as clearly as possible what is and what is not allowed. When involuntary care is provided as a last resort, clients should have good legal protection and caregivers should know where they stand. At the moment this is regulated in the BOPZ Act. The Health and Force Act and the Mental Health Act will soon replace the current BOPZ Act, one for the group of people with dementia or learning disabilities, and the other for psychiatry. What exactly do we want to achieve with the mandatory ggz Act? What's the core? A very important element is that the mandatory ggz Act places the necessary treatment at the centre rather than the forced admission of a patient. It will be possible to provide the forced outpatient treatment. As a result, treatment is no longer linked to forced admission and care is personal and no longer locational. This law is therefore a major improvement on the current BOPZ. Because the care needs of the client and the severity of the disadvantage may vary over time, the law requires ggz to have a multitude of forms of care. The form of care, the degree of compulsion and the level of security can be tailored to the care needs of the client at that time. Forced care may vary under the mandatory ggz Act from short-term, outpatient treatment to forced inclusion and treatment in long-term stays with a high level of security. Forced care should focus on improving the mental health of the client and his potential for social participation. The multitude of care forms makes it possible to prevent heavier care through earlier light intervention. There is no need to wait until someone's health has deteriorated so much that it can only be improved by a forced intake. Prior intervention to prevent escalation is a major improvement in the practice of these patients. At present, under the BOPZ Act, a person in need of mental health care cannot be required to accept that care, while because of his illness he is a danger to himself or another person. Think of a client with several suicide attempts that increase in intensity. In a forced admission, the traders see no salvation, even more so, the risk of suicide on forced admission may become greater, because the client ends up in a completely new environment unknown to him, where he has no relationship of trust with anyone. Since the forced admission is unlikely to remove the danger, the judge rejects the application for authorisation. This means that the provision of care remains dependent on the cooperation of the client. With the new law, this client can become obliged to accept care and this forced care is no longer linked to a forced admission. In this case, forced medication or therapy may be included in the healthcare authorisation issued by the judge. If the client does not want to accept medication or therapy at home, the client can receive it at the outpatient clinic. Then he can go back home and the known, safe environment. So the client doesn't need to be admitted. The forced treatment of this client is then outpatient. In addition, we strengthen the client's position. He can draw up his own plan of action to prevent forced care, and his preferences must be taken into account. In addition, any form of compulsory care shall be subject to prior judicial review, except for the care provided by the crisis measure or the observation measure. This may be the subject of a subsequent appeal to the courts. The bill also focuses on social participation. This means that the mandatory ggz Act broadly interprets the concept of "care." Appropriate care aims not only to restore health, but also to restore the opportunities to participate in social life. The family also gets a better position under the law. It can give its views on the care plan, is involved in the assessment of compulsory care and is also given perseverance. For example, if the municipality decides not to do anything after a report from the family or others, the family may force the municipality to submit an application for mandatory care to the district attorney, accompanied by an investigation by the municipality. Even if the prosecutor decides not to do anything with it, the family may apply to the court for compulsory care, provided that a psychiatrist states that the criteria for compulsory care are met. The family confidant also gets a legal anchor. Another improvement is the cooperation between chain partners. They are given the obligation to cooperate, and the legislative proposal provides for mandatory consultation in the region in which the chain partners work together. In any event, regional consultations will take place: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Ggz, the municipality and the police. In addition, the legislative proposal provides clear bases for the exchange of information between, in particular, justice and mental health care, where these foundations are now sometimes unclear. This exchange of information makes it possible to arrive at a better balanced assessment of what appropriate care is and whether the criteria of the mandatory ggz Act are met. It can also inform the judge from several angles in order to improve decision-making. Finally, the legislative proposals improve the balance and coordination between care and punishment. Under the new legislation, the criminal court can impose not only punishment but also care, even if the defendant refuses. As many Members have pointed out, there has been a lot of time in preparing this bill. The drafting of this bill has been an extremely complicated task, as this issue brings together care-related, ethical and legal aspects. This meant closer cooperation with the field and extensive consultation. We have processed Mr Hoekstra's opinions, as well as ZonMw's research. The latter, of course, has caused considerable delays. The two other legislative proposals are already in the Upper House. The adjustments to synchronize where that had added value were therefore mainly passed by this mandatory ggz Act. I am convinced that with this method we have found the right balance and proportionality. Today we are talking not only about the law mandatory ggz, but also about proposals for the law care and coercion and the law forensic care. The coherence of these laws is an important point for the Chamber, as well as for the two ministries concerned and the four directors concerned. In order to bring the legislative proposals closer together, the Law mandatory ggz, the Law care and coercion and the Law forensic care on parts have been amended. Key concepts have been harmonised or harmonised as far as possible. Complaint procedures and compensation schemes are harmonised. Movements are facilitated and coordinated in the legislative proposals. The substance of the legislative proposals remains unchanged after these changes. The three legislative proposals have common principles. Everyone has to get the care they need, where compulsion is always the ultimate remedium. Clients should be relocated smoothly, and clients should have adequate legal protection. Forced care is a violation of fundamental rights. The imposition of compulsory care is therefore only applied if the possibilities of voluntary care are exhausted. Forced care is always an ultimatum remedium. This raises the question, also in the Chamber, whether the system of forced care can function if the field in question is not well organized and equipped. Will there not be too early recourse to compulsory forms of care in the event of a inadequate supply of care? Although the legislative proposals do not appear in this field, this question is of course relevant to the success of the legislative proposals. That is why I think it is important that care and support without mandatory character are well regulated and available. We had an extensive general discussion on this last week. Municipalities and insurers are in charge of this, in close cooperation with other relevant partners. As part of the journey around people with confused behavior, efforts are being made to improve the availability of crisis care, always accessible hotlines and low-threshold facilities. The switching team is a practical team set up by the ministers of VWS and of Security and Justice and by the VNG. If necessary, other ministers will be involved. In addition, the government has used various actions to make waiting times understandable and to point out to patients the role of insurers to lead them to care when faced with a waiting list. We are going through with this, because every citizen, every client, needs the care and support he needs and because it is a crucial condition for this bill to work properly. In the coming period, the switching team will monitor the availability of the current amenities. We will explicitly involve this in the first evaluation of the mandatory ggz Act. The use of compulsory care will also be monitored. In my introduction, I would like to dwell briefly on this point. I will also answer the explicit questions on this subject on a part of the legislative proposal that has received a lot of attention over the last few months, namely the observation measure. The law requires ggz to provide a basis for the mayor to include persons for research. The BOPZ Act does not have such a measure. The observation measure is an additional instrument, in addition to the care authorisation and the crisis measure. With this measure, after and on the basis of a psychiatrist's advice, the mayor may decide as an ultimum remedium to temporarily restrict a person with a mental disorder about whom there are very serious concerns but in whom there has been no evidence of acute danger in his freedom by transferring him to a care setting for further investigation. In particular, it is possible to consider a situation in which, despite intensive efforts to provide assistance, workers are unable to provide voluntary care, while it is clear that the person concerned has a mental disorder and that there are serious concerns about that person. It is often difficult to assess whether there is an immediate threat of serious harm, because aid workers have too little information and the person concerned refuses to cooperate in research. These situations are not fictional, but come from practice. I must say that we have received an overwhelming number of examples from parents and family members since we started doing this. They're really about people who don't want care, who avoid care, who can't be reached for help, who close the door and don't answer the phone and who know they have a psychiatric disorder, because that's required by an observational measure. You know there's a psychiatric disorder, but you're really worried about that person. You're afraid he might cause serious harm to himself or others, but the latter needs to be investigated further. It's not so much about whether someone has a psychiatric disorder, because that has to be fixed. That is precisely the difference between the crisis measure and the observation measure. The extension of the crisis measure does not serve this group. With the crisis measure, we don't know if anyone has a psychiatric disorder. We do have a suspicion of this, but someone can also be under the influence of drugs, for example, and cause a serious disadvantage or a danger to others immediately. Then you can put in place a crisis measure. This is about people we do know have a mental disorder, and we may not know exactly which one, but in general we do, but whose serious danger we cannot directly assess. That's because there are also people who behave very well in the fifteen minutes that they sometimes have with a psychiatrist or in the intake with a psychiatrist, as if nothing is going on. Sometimes it takes a longer time to figure that out. In order to avoid any error, the observation measure may be the last resort to lead the person concerned to proper care and to avoid unnecessary escalation. This is really different from extending the crisis measure, which has been suggested as an alternative. An extension of the crisis measure to this group is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights. Both the Supreme Court and the Council of State have clearly defined the limits. It is precisely in order to avoid the more radical crisis measure, if possible, that the possibility of observation is crucial. Just so we're clear, with the crisis measure, you know there's a danger, but you're not sure if there's a disorder. As I said, for example, someone may have dangerous behavior under the influence of drugs. In the observation measure, you know there's a disorder, but you don't know for sure whether there's danger or how serious that is. You only have a hunch about that. In both cases, the ordinary procedure for a care authorisation cannot be awaited, because the situation is worrying and the procedure takes too long. From the Court's input, I understand that an observation measure is very quickly seen as a public order measure, but it is not intended to do so. He is meant to be able to actually approach the group of care avoiders, the people who avoid the care they really need. So let's say the next thing is up. You've taken someone into observation, and after three hours of observation, it turns out that the danger is indeed acute. Then you can start treatment because you have those 18 hours before the crisis action. Then you can arrange the crisis measure. So it's not like someone sits in a room for three days and is being watched. No, someone just comes into a care setting, in a normal care environment. That's where they're looking at what's needed. If the crisis measure is needed, treatment and application for the crisis measure can be started. If you need more time, you need more time. The care aspect of this measure is extremely important to me. If it helps to strengthen the support for this measure, I would like to emphasise this aspect of concern even more by making the observation measure subject to the requirement that a directive or a protocol be adopted by the field for this purpose. This means that the observation measure can only be used after a directive has been drawn up by the psychiatrists concerned in consultation with patients and institutions. Then you can say that we have described the care aspect even more strictly. That would perhaps remove some of the objections. The legislative proposals bring about a significant change in implementation practice. With the Chamber, I believe that all parties should have time to prepare themselves well for their new roles and new practices. The improvement for the patient by this law is so great that the government attaches great importance to the early entry into force of the law. Let us recall that the Hoekstra Committee even said: should we not make an emergency bill? That's how much the need for this law is. We consider a period of one year for this to be realistic and to be the starting point for the entry into force of the law in mid-2018. If, however, it turns out that this could not be done carefully or that more time is needed, then I think that is a very important point. In the end, the law must be properly implemented. I believe that Mrs Voortman asked: can the introduction not be phased out? That could be possible, but we must take due account of the fact that everything that is related is also being introduced in conjunction with each other. So I do not rule out the possibility that things may need to be phased out. We are focusing on one year's introduction period, but it appears that more time is needed in the course of that year, and we will also have to agree on a later introduction period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u91	I'm happy with what the Minister says here. I myself found it difficult to indicate what then and what not. First of all, I thought: should I table an amendment to this? The point is that it has to do with the connection to what, for example, municipalities do, which is why I asked these questions. I think it would be logical for it to depend on the agreements made with the other partners. Then it may be that you do quickly what can be done quickly and that you only do later what needs longer time. It's got to be a good match.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u92	I think we should look at that very carefully, so that things don't go sideways. I couldn't agree more. We have made this entry into force so tight because things are already being practiced. I'll explain later. Well, then you're hoping that's gonna make it faster. Everyone has said that there is a great need for it; Hoekstra even wanted an emergency law. Let's do this as soon as possible. But I fully agree with you that if there are elements that require more time, then we need to do them and everything that is related to them, of course in consultation with the region, in stages.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u93	I think the Minister and I agree. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u94	The implementation of this law requires the necessary efforts of all parties concerned. Although the mandatory ggz Act will indeed substantially change practice, the parties concerned may already anticipate certain elements of the changes brought about by the law. As of 1 January this year, a chain programme has been launched under the mandatory ggz Act, in which all organisations involved in the compulsory ggz Act cooperate. That's what I meant. This will speed up the preparation of the implementation of the mandatory ggz Act, and in particular the exchange of information, with system agreements on inter alia cooperation and information provision. A chain information system is being implemented, with the aim of enabling professionals and other stakeholders to play a role in the chain together, smoothly and safely supported with the right information. A pilot is currently running under the current BOPZ Act. It will work towards an improvement in implementation which will also benefit the new implementation practice. Of course, we will continue to have a good discussion with all interested parties on the feasibility of implementation. Mrs Leijten asked whether it would not be possible to make one law. Following earlier evaluations of the BOPZ Act, the current separate legislative proposals were decided upon. The reason? The difference in target groups. For this reason, there is a need for different rules in terms of content. It was decided to continue with two separate legislative proposals and to review them quickly, two years after entry into force. That's faster than we normally evaluate. Withdrawal of the current legislative proposals to draft a new, integrated law would delay many years in bringing about necessary innovations in both legislative proposals. That seems very undesirable to me. In addition, a single integrated legal framework should also distinguish between target groups. You now have two laws, each for a different target group. Soon you would have one law that should distinguish between two target groups. However, both legislative proposals have been more harmonised through the second letter of amendment, in line with ZonMw's recommendations, and the connection between the two legislative proposals has improved. I follow ZonMw's proposal to bring the legislative proposals into force and then to evaluate the laws in conjunction after two years. The specific questions concerning the Health and Force Act are answered by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u95	I had already thanked the Secretary of State for being here; I think that's good. Isn't it true that the thematic evaluation of ZonMw's forced care found that it would be best if there were a single legal framework?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u96	What's bothering you is this. In an earlier evaluation, two were recommended. Then you're gonna start with that. In fact, there's actually a new bill in the Upper House. ZonMw has indicated that he may want to change that again. I believe, especially in view of the years of preparation known to these laws, that it is better to proceed on the basis of the first evaluation and the decision to make two laws for the target group, but harmonised, and to evaluate them after two years, then to change everything again on the basis of this other advice. That is why we have not chosen to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u97	As a result, it is clear that there is a deviation from the last opinion. There was an evaluation of the BOPZ in 2001. We are now 16, 15 years on, and there is a new evaluation which draws a different conclusion. The Minister does not agree, but that is clear now. The answer to the written questions has always said 'this was the advice given to us', but the Minister now also acknowledges that the last opinion is actually 'one legal framework'. I'm not asking the Minister for nothing. I think that the difference in legal protection that is now emerging is really not good. I understand that the Minister says: we want to enter into force, because we have been working on it for a long time. But could the route by which the Law mandatory ggz is extended with the Law care and coercion and where the latter does not remain separate, but really takes that into account, be properly investigated in the coming year? I am concerned about the difference in legal protection. Everyone understands that sometimes things go differently in implementation, but given the difference in legal protection, I think we should look for that way, also bearing in mind the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It states that the organisation of society must not lead to differences between people with disabilities and those without disabilities. Is the Minister prepared to consider whether the law on compulsory ggz can be extended to include the Law on care and coercion, which is then successfully incorporated into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u98	I honestly think there's something to say for both options: either you do it in two laws, as we've done now, and you harmonise as much as possible, or you do it in one law and then you create different categories for target groups. In the end, it is only one thing: what is most in the interest of the person covered by those laws? So you have to reason from the person, from his or her need for care and from the question of what needs to be done. You can do that in two separate, harmonised laws or in one law. I believe that everyone should be open to the adjustments that may be necessary after those two years. Then it may well be that you say: we are really going to adapt things, because in practice the law and the needs are not so well aligned. I'm not ruling that out at all. This law has not been poured into concrete for me, but I do know that these laws have been considered incredibly well. That is why I think we should start with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u99	There's been a tremendous amount of thought about the laws, but time doesn't stand still. What affects me is that it is not always subject to judicial review when a person is subject to a coercive measure on account of age or intellectual disability, whereas that is the case when it is due to psychological suffering or mental illness. I can't explain that. I know how these legislative processes have gone, I see where we are now, and I ask the Minister about the prospect that that difference will expire. In my view, it is possible to apply the law on compulsory ggz through the authorisation of care and through the crisis measures to people who are covered by the Health and Force Act. I therefore ask the Minister not only to leave the way to integrate everything into the compulsory ggz Act open, but also to investigate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u100	The Secretary of State is about to answer the questions about the Health and Force Act. He will therefore address the question of why this form has been chosen and not the form required by the Law ggz. However, I agree with Mrs Leijten that sometimes time demands new things and that it is absolutely unwise to cast laws into concrete, especially in this area. Again, the choice of two laws is based on certain ideas. That could have turned out different. For example, there could have been two laws with different regimes. The most important thing is that in both laws the care and care questions are the starting point and that you adapt it accordingly. Whether things are being modified or not, something will have to be set in motion at some point so that you can gain experience with those laws.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u101	I'll talk to the Secretary of State about the implementation of the Health and Force Act. The Minister is talking about the compulsory ggz Act. As far as I'm concerned, that law is a lot better than the Health and Force Act, in terms of legal protection and positioning of family and patient and not just through recordings of forced care. What's wrong with me? The patient as a starting point has been undermined in the Health and Force Act. That is where the institution decides whether or not a person gets an independent confidant. There the institution decides how the enforcement of a step-by-step plan for forced care is, and not a physician-director as required by the Law ggz. For example, there are still many cases in the field of legal protection which differ substantially. I am pleased to hear that the Minister states that the patient is the starting point and the care is followed. That is contrary to how the Law care and coercion is built up. I will settle with the Secretary of State and I would like to follow the Minister's explanation of how the law should be put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u102	What happens to people with multi-problems? Shouldn't we have one law for them, too? The starting point is once again that everyone needs the care they need. People with serious multi-problems have a complex concern. This calls for good agreements between aid workers in order to offer an appropriate range of care, living and guidance. That care can vary in time. The fact that there will be two laws instead of one makes no difference to this issue. The BOPZ Act also requires frequent consultation on what is best suited care for the different target groups. On the contrary, these legislative proposals increase the scope for action for the target group by increasing the possibilities for intervention. How do we guarantee the protection of the most vulnerable? The target groups of both laws differ. The procedures shall be as consistent as possible with the target group. Problems of clients in care often arise from incomprehension under the Health and Force Act. On the one hand, the client's behaviour is not always well understood by caregivers, on the other hand, the client often does not understand why certain care is needed. The Roadmap aims to seek mutual understanding and, in the given situation, to provide as much care as possible on a voluntary basis. That is an ongoing process. I've had the introduction, so I'm going to the specific questions on the observation measure. Precautionary care for a crisis measure can only be assumed if it is reasonable to assume that a crisis measure would be taken. Can't you lighten the bandages? This is involuntary care provided when there is no authorisation or measure at the time. This is allowed because it immediately precedes a measure to be imposed. If that link is loosened, a new measure will actually be created without further guarantees. This seriously impairs the rights of data subjects. Can't the removal of "immediately" in the crisis measure? The deletion of "immediately" is contrary to the case law of the Supreme Court on the ECHR, which refers to the Winter Judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Freedom removal requires either immediate threat of danger in case of serious suspicion of a disorder or serious suspicion of a hazard in case of sufficient certainty of a disorder. That space was used in the observation measure. It is possible to give more space in practice in the application "immediately." This does not require any legislative amendment, but more explanation of the application. That is what was done in the note on the second report. The Dutch case-law on detention shows that the danger that threatens to occur does not have to be the same day, but that it should not be two or three weeks later either. The observation measure is not the criterion of immediate danger as a result of the disorder. There must only be a serious suspicion of danger. You're going to investigate the severity of the danger in the observation measure. This is an attempt to get people into care who know how to cover up their disorder at the time the crisis service rings. As a result, the danger is sometimes not properly assessed and the psychiatrist does not give an explanation, which in the current situation does not allow for detention. If someone is in the care setting and treatment is needed soon, you can immediately start treatment in anticipation of a crisis measure. It may take up to 18 hours before the mayor decides to do so. So we are dealing with two very different groups. One doesn't know if there's a disorder, and the other doesn't know if there's a serious danger. Is it possible to adapt the instruments so that an observation measure is no longer possible? The crisis measure and the care authorisation do not cover what is possible under the observation measure. This also applies to the temporary compulsory care prior to the crisis measure, as it should be reasonably possible to assume that a crisis measure can be taken. The criterion for the crisis measure is linked to an immediate threat of danger and a serious suspicion of a disorder. With an observation measure, that's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u103	I understand what the Minister is saying, but it is still not quite clear to me why it would not be possible to include the observation measure in the preliminaries of a crisis measure. As it is now designed, I understand that this temporary compulsory care is taken prior to the crisis measure if you reasonably assume that it can be taken. That's a pretty high threshold. Is it then such a strange idea to look more openly at whether someone is actually eligible for a crisis measure and not to set the bar so high that you have to assume in advance that this crisis measure will be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u104	This is the result of the judgment I have just mentioned and of the European Convention on Human Rights. That's what keeps that bandage tight. It's tight in the sense that there's an immediate danger. The word "immediately" is sometimes interpreted very tightly. It turns out, however, that "immediately" can also be seen as "in two days." Immediately does not need to be now, but can also be at a time of days. The link to the crisis measure is there with the danger. You may have a suspicion of a disorder, but you may not have fully established it. For example, the danger may also be in drug use or otherwise. When it comes to the observation measure, it's exactly mirrored. You know there's a disorder, which you don't know about the crisis measure, but you're not sure there's any danger. All you have is a serious suspicion. Someone's schizophrenic, probably doesn't take his medication, doesn't open the door, doesn't call and shuts down completely. That is also a group for which this measure is in favour. The measure is not intended for people who smash mirrors on the street. For them there is the crisis measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u105	That's perfectly clear to me. On the basis of the Minister's replies, I have no major objections to the observation measure, but I am looking for ways, if a large part of the Chamber has any objections, to maintain some of those measures by including them in the preliminary examination of a crisis measure. I understand that the word "immediately" has its limits and that it does not allow you to declare the observation measure applicable. In any case, I am not yet convinced that you can take what is now intended with that observation, not as part of a preliminary examination for taking a crisis measure, but perhaps it takes too far and becomes too technical to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u106	You can, as I just said. You can take an observation measure at some point. If a person is observed once, it may appear after an hour and a half that there is real reason for a crisis measure. Then you can start treatment right away. That's possible. One can do it for another. The observation measure may therefore precede a crisis measure. Because we saw that there was criticism of the observation measure in the Chamber, we turned everything upside down to see if we could extend the crisis measure. With that observation measure, we just had problems in the old BOPZ Act. You have very strict case law between which you must continue to bash.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u107	I think it is convincing for the crisis measure as such, but it is not yet clear to me why it is not legally possible in the context of the preliminary investigation to take a crisis measure. I am not referring to Article 7.1, but to Article 7.3. I don't understand why you couldn't say in that context that there's room for observation sooner and easier without knowing in advance that it's going to be a crisis measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u108	Because that actually introduces a new measure. You are introducing a new measure by loosening the link more than is currently the case with the crisis measure. The judgments and the Council of State have actually made it very clear that this cannot be done. If we go down that road, we won't get into unexplored territory, no, we know exactly where the boundaries lie. I myself have less problems with this, but I must of course remain within the international and legal frameworks. And that observation measure stays right in there. They are, of course, very far-reaching measures. Let us be clear: this observation measure is much less serious than the crisis measure. For that crisis measure, you are really bound by very tight frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u109	If that observation measure is independent, it should certainly be possible to do so in the context of a preliminary examination of a crisis measure. That's still my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u110	Yes, but that observation measure applies to another group. In the event of a crisis, there must be immediate danger. That "immediately" is a very important word in the case law. This group is exactly the silent group. It consists of care avoiders, people who do their utmost not to get into a care path. So you're in doubt about the danger, even if you have a serious suspicion. If patients with specific conditions do not take their medication, you can wait, but sooner or later things often go horribly wrong. All the signals point to it; you can see it coming. All those letters, which say this, and all those people and psychiatrists who appeal to me about this, have led us to take that measure. That group doesn't let itself be heard, but avoids concern. So you can't get it out with the crisis measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u111	The Minister says that you know in advance of the observation measure that there is a disorder. That's for sure. What does that show in the legal text? The Minister now says that the observation measure concerns a very well-defined group of whom we already know there is a disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u112	Yeah, you don't need to know what kind of disorder there is, but you need to know that there's a disorder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u113	I didn't see this literally in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u114	Yeah, I think that's literally in the law and otherwise in the explanatory statement. I should look up exactly where that says. I've seen it come by many times, the literal quotes of it. We are really talking about two different groups here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u115	I'm gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u116	Mr. Chairman. The alternative given to the Netherlands by GGZ for the observation measure, in order to get the word "immediately" out, therefore encounters legal objections. The case law of the Supreme Court on the interpretation of the ECHR has shown that in the event of deprivation of liberty, either immediate threat of danger in the event of serious suspicion of disorder or serious suspicion of danger in the event of sufficient certainty of a disorder is required. I am prepared to send the relevant case-law on the interpretation of the ECHR of the deprivation of liberty that affects it to the Chamber, as Mrs Bouwmeester asked. In addition, I am prepared to explore with the field how this standard can be implemented even better, taking into account the case law mentioned above. It is then the "immediate" standard. I was asked whether the observation measure could prevent a situation like Bart of You. That's talking afterwards, of course. I find it very difficult to say that I can guarantee that this would not have happened if we had had an observation measure. Of course, you can't say that, but there was no doubt that he had a mental disorder. His family has ringed the bell at many authorities and said that he was not well and that she was very worried. At least that will be different with this law, because the role of the family is much more firmly anchored in the law. Bart van U. was a huge care avoider and didn't want to know about the care. He didn't ask for help, but he was avoiding help. In cases like this you try to reduce the chance of repetition with new laws, but a guarantee that it will never happen is of course not to be given.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u117	I hear the Minister say that there are cases where people do not call for help and that you then have to change the law and do all kinds of legal things at the back. Imagine someone in a mall called to the police and an institution "help me, help me," but nothing happened. And then we're going to develop a legal instrument at the back. Aren't you working on a system solution when you need to see why the police haven't been able to respond adequately? Why wasn't there a response when someone on the street was shouting something? Why didn't the institution and the police respond? I believe that this calls for cultural change and awareness, so that people know what to do, not a legal measure if it is all too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u118	You can't change the whole world with a law, of course. You're gonna have to make several adjustments to that. One of the important changes in this law is the position of the family. What you see very often is that the family is not heard and actually is skipped. With this law, there will be an observation measure. This is not meant for people who say "help me," but for people who close their doors and do not allow assistance. So that's not where the aid comes in. That is what this measure has been designed for. There are further measures in this law, which you hope will prevent the situations that have occurred, but that can never be done without making the care accessible in a accessible manner and ensuring that the hotlines are in order. For that there is a very sadness, which I will come up with later, which needs to be in order. This is one of the links.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u119	There was a little confusion, because the Minister used the case-bart of U. and then started the observation. It is clear that this person had a clear request for help and that the solution is to work together, acknowledge, act and do what, and that we do not need any new legal instrument for that, just like with the other terrible cases. The solution lies elsewhere, and I think it is important for the Minister to acknowledge it. I am pleased that the Minister has strengthened the position of the family, again, because he is the first to ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u120	I didn't bring up Bart from you myself; I was asked what that would mean. Furthermore, Bart of You was not an assistant, but a caretaker. I've been going over the cases extensively. The Hoekstra Committee did the same. It's just someone who wanted nothing to do with the care. Once he was in front of someone who came out of care, a psychiatrist, he was able to act pretty good as if things were actually going pretty well. That was a big problem. The family then ran into the door with their noses all over the place. That's why this change is so important. The observation measure could also mean something here. I think that everything we do here, the whole thing, ultimately means something, but the observation measure is a link in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u121	Mrs. Bouwmeester again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u122	Things are getting a little complicated. I talked about the case in which someone calls for help, but they do not get it and then everything goes wrong. The Minister first acknowledges that everything in society must be better and different, but then concludes with the remark that the observation measure is a link in it. I'm not going to deepen cases at all, because that doesn't fit. Imagine someone first at an institution and then at the police in all kinds of complicated ways to attract attention. That's a cry for help. He's not getting that help. The question then is whether you should lock someone up for three days, release them, lock them up and release them, or whether you should just give them the care they need when they're hiding out asking for help. This concerns the professionalism of people in the ggz. You might wonder why that doesn't happen in situations like that. Then what do these people need to be able to do that? They want to, but it's gone wrong somewhere. I'm just talking about a hypothetical case. Let's not just talk about a person, because that's not so neat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u123	Well, that person has been discussed a lot here. The Hoekstra Committee, of course, has worked out what has gone wrong. In a number of areas where things have gone wrong, we are, of course, trying to do better to prevent such a situation from repeating itself. You can see that Bart of You is an example of a care avoidr. As soon as he was with a psychiatrist, he was able to hide it. All these letters that we receive also show that we are so difficult to reach the people who care, when we know that there is a disorder. For example, I have received many letters from parents of schizophrenic children. They say: we know that something is really wrong and see the spiral down, but everything must escalate before we can intervene with our child through a crisis measure. The objective of the observation measure is to intervene in such a person before the escalation takes place. Then one does not have to wait until it has really gone wrong again. D66 asks whether the weekend does not count in the deadline for the crisis measure. It doesn't matter if it's the weekend or not. It's not working days; it's just three days. If an extension of the crisis measure is deemed necessary and a request is made to the court, the client shall be deprived of his freedom for a longer period and shall be taken into account on the weekend. That's no different than under the BOPZ Act. Are the conditions for the plan of action clearly defined? Article 5.5 of the law allows the client to draw up his own plan of approach. How this should be further developed is deliberately not legally closed to offer the client that space. How does the observation measure relate to the constitutional right to self-determination and physical integrity? The observation measure falls within these constitutional rights. The Constitution protects the inviolability of the body in Article 11 and the prohibition of deprivation of liberty in Article 15. Both articles offer the possibility to impose restrictions on these rights in the law. Furthermore, the observation measure meets the requirements arising from the case law of the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights. How is it designed at the municipality if the reporter wants to be involved in starting the process around the Compulsory Health Care Act? In short, the reporter belonging to the select group of close relatives essential for the continuity of care is informed by the municipality of whether or not to apply for authorisation to the prosecutor. Those persons will also be involved in the process. If the officer decides not to file a petition, they may still force him to do so if the medical certificate shows the need for compulsory care. That's the perseverance force, we've arranged it. The other detectors are not involved in the process for the protection of the client's privacy. How am I going to test that care is applied as an ultimum remedium, and not as a lap for a bad organization? This is assessed in the preparation of the care authorisation by the caretaker and the medical director, by the judge in the issuing of the care authorisation and by the medical director in the application of the care authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u124	How exactly does the Minister intend to follow this? She says she wants to include this in the evaluation after two years. We often see in youth care that a legal measure is ultimately needed and that more could have been done in the preliminary stage. But this legal measure is already necessary, because the situation is as it is, and action is needed. If it is found that more could have been done, that it has not been done, but that it should have been done in the end, then a lesson should have been learned from that; it should not be possible to establish this alone. How are we going to ensure this under this law, if the ultimate remedium is that we are forcing someone to care, when something like this could certainly have been or should have been prevented in the preliminary journey if there had been an outpatient care available? That's gotta be fixed somewhere. How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u125	The fact that we are organizing the regional consultation is an enormous improvement. At that regional consultation, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the police and the ggz are present. Wasn't it Mrs. Bouwmeester who asked why the patient wasn't there? I thought that was a good suggestion. We will therefore involve the patient in the regional consultation. In that consultation there is always a fairly quick feedback of what has happened, what goes wrong, why something could not be delivered. I think that is a huge improvement. Now everything is separate. Now there is actually no connection between someone with a recording and another person, who is not directly involved but is much earlier in the process. So this is a huge progress. As a result, there will be more self-learning capacity among all partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u126	So someone is given a crisis measure or a care authorisation, but it is found that it could actually have been prevented at an earlier stage. It goes to the region, but how will we monitor what comes after it? How do we learn how to use forced care? We actually wanted to make a law that we would never have to use; we all said that at the hearing. We know we're a long way from that right now. So how can we do this? Put everything back to the region, goes well as the region is well organized. But how do we see the results?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u127	We have seen very well that everyone has been working on their own island. This is highlighted in the Hoekstra Committee's report. This law is based on cooperation. He focuses on a very important role for the patient confidant and the family confidant. Everyone is taken off their island and brought together in the regional consultation; this is also regulated. The information system, which was very flawed, sometimes one did not know what had happened; for example, the district police knew nothing about the institution................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This is taking place in such a regional consultation. This is a huge blow that you can't make normally, with a rule or with force. In the end, there is also an evaluation and you can see how the regional consultations function in relation to each other. How do we guarantee that coercion is an ultimatum remedium? Reducing compulsion and urges is always a goal. Force may only be if really nothing else can be done and then as short and as light as possible. These principles have a legal anchor in Article 2.1. Can the inspection assess qualitatively and quantitatively whether sufficient voluntary care is required prior to compulsory care? Prior to compulsory care, several parties will assess whether sufficient efforts have been made to provide care on a voluntary basis. It's done by the medical director, the district attorney and the judge. When the inspection at case level is checked, the legal criteria and guidelines are involved, such as whether alternatives to compulsory care have been used sufficiently. The inspection also looks more broadly and examines, for example, in collaboration with the municipal supervisor, whether there is sufficient treatment capacity and cooperation in a given region. Mrs Leijten asked if we should keep our finger on the wrist. There has been enough work on this, but of course we could also ask whether the inspection, in parallel with the assessment of the law two years after the date, could carry out a thematic study on this issue. Then you would specifically ask the supervisor's attention to present the research results in parallel to the evaluation. On the one hand, there is the regional consultation, which is expected to improve; on the other hand, there is the inspection, which, after two years, can report in parallel on whether it is actually doing better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u128	That would certainly be an option. This is what I'm talking about. Sometimes a care authorisation or crisis measure is issued which actually states that the situation in which the person concerned ended up could have been prevented if it had been otherwise. Such a statement must be made properly so that after two or three years we can see whether we have less of these care permissions or crisis measures. I think we can do this with such a thematic research, so let's look into that. I think we will get a lot of knowledge about the missing links through the preparation of the Public Prosecutor's Office: what has been done, what could have been done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u129	I think so too, and I think that the regional consultation can also contribute to this. So let's talk about this like this. What does it show that outpatient compulsion care at home is effective? Is it necessary? What's it made of? How is the safety of caregivers guaranteed? Ambulant compulsion at home is a wish of the field. There is still research into which care is really necessary and therefore effective. This should lead to a generic module compulsion and urge. As the investigation is still ongoing, there is no definitive statement on the forms of care that are necessary, but there is an initial indication. Not all forms of compulsory care should be allowed at home. Fixation and separation, for example, seem really unsuitable for this. An important condition is that adequate supervision is possible. In the module compulsion and urge the safety of patients and caregivers is also included. There are currently two routes. Under the direction of a Network Quality Development GGz, a mandatory ggz directive is developed. It's about done. In addition, a generic module of compulsion and urge is developed, including about forced application at home. He's gonna be in consultation soon. The AMvB that is now being produced is mainly about data provision and mediocrity. The AMvB will be there before the law enters into force. He's also being hung in front of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u130	Now, do I understand that we are dealing with a law here that allows outpatient compulsion in the home situation, but that we actually have no idea what kind of coercive care we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u131	That is precisely regulated in the AMvB. There is already an insight into things that will not be covered, such as fixation and separation. There are things you can think about, like medication. But there is, of course, still a whole field in between. This is described in the General Measure of Management. We also take a performance test on that and it is also hung.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u132	The only concrete issue at home of outpatient compulsion care that the Minister now has is medication. What am I supposed to do with that? Does someone get medication, is someone forced to take medication? Does that person get tied up and then he gets medication? How am I supposed to imagine that in the home care situation? In my opinion, this has not yet been investigated in the Netherlands, but it has been done in the United States and the United Kingdom, for example. Those studies, although limited, show that compulsion care at home is not effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u133	I have already mentioned an example in my introduction. Someone's suicidal. You can necessarily take that person in, but then you get someone out of his trusted environment so that those feelings of suicide could only become stronger. You can treat that person from home. For example, it is being treated outpatiently or other measures are being taken at home. Of course, compulsion care at home hasn't been tried yet. We haven't done any pilots because this law isn't there yet. And then this is too far-reaching to actually try out at home. That is why we have not already started with pilots. However, at the request of the Ministry of VWS, the NVvP, under the flag of the GGz Quality Development Network, asked VUMC to carry out a qualitative study of the field's ideas about compulsion in the home situation and possible standards. There is also virtually no international investigation into the application of coercion in the home situation. The results of this study are incorporated into the generic compulsion module with the content of the Force Directive and will soon be deposited with parties for field consultation. In other words, it is true that an effect has already been made by the field and will soon be consulted. However, we do not lay that down exactly in the law. I think that's important, because in the end you should be able to adapt these matters more easily through a General Measure of Governance if you consider it necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u134	Forced care at home is, of course, extremely far-reaching. I find it very difficult that we are now making a law here that allows for coercive care, but that we actually have no idea what we are talking about. Then of course it is a bit difficult to consider what to do with it. Can the Minister not give a better indication of what is meant and what is not meant above all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u135	A recording is even more profound. In this law, we focus not on the inclusion, but on the care, no matter where it takes place. That is precisely the content of this law. It's not a lockdown law, as the BOPZ Act actually is. We put care at the centre here, and where it can best be given to the patient. If that's best done in a closed setting, in an institution, we'll do it there. And if the institution is not needed and there is a preference to provide care at home, so that you can keep people in a safe environment, then the people who are actually the operators and are able to judge that well can give advice on this. Eventually, the judge decides what it's gonna look like. There are therefore sufficient safeguards to ensure that this is properly balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u136	We are very much in favour of compulsion at home as a last resort, precisely because of the arguments put forward by the Minister. Care follows people, and it's not like you're going to an institution if you want to have care. It is important, however, that a field standard makes clear what is and what is not possible. It is important for us not only what is included, but also whether care should always be provided at home. We can also imagine, for example, when it comes to coercive medication, that it is taking place elsewhere. You have to go somewhere, that's where it takes place and then you go home. If you have to get coercive medication in your own home or other coercive measures, that can also be very intense. My question to the Minister is: is this being worked out with the field? Isn't it just "what, when and how" looked at, but also "where"? Can it also be in another setting, if this fits the patient's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u137	Sure. I said that in my example too. You can go to a certain treatment provider, or get outpatient treatment, and then you can go home at night. It's possible. By the way, the AMvB regulates what is not allowed at home. It's an extra security deposit. There will be a very strong urge rather than a compulsion. The client accepts the care and therefore prevents him from having to go to an institution to get medication. The suspicion is that the client will cooperate sooner because he wants to avoid being admitted to an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u138	That is, of course, entirely in the spirit of the law: seduction and urge instead of compulsion. Is there going to be a directive from the field, which sets out how this is to be developed? Is that what the field is committed to? Should this be established again in consultation with patients? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u139	The directive is about to be ready and the generic module is about to be consulted. It's at an advanced stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u140	One small technical point: are the experienced patients, the people involved, all involved in the implementation of the directive?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u141	A directive is no longer registered if patients are not involved. That's a condition for the Quality Institute. Can the district attorney choose a second opinion if the medical director decides that forced care is not necessary? That's what D66 asked. The Public Prosecutor receives the medical opinion of the independent psychiatrist and the advice of the medical director or forced care is necessary for assessment. The law does not prevent an additional medical judgment from being obtained if the district attorney considers it necessary. Moreover, the court may also seek the opinion of another expert.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u142	Of course, there are two sides to that. One side is you're doing an extra insurance check on the verdict you've had. On the other hand, of course, you run the risk of a prosecutor shopping because he did not have the right advice from the medical director or the psychiatrist. How does the Minister weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u143	That weighs the judge. He gets everything on his plate: medical director one says this and the other says that. Eventually, the judge decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u144	To confirm that the district attorney has to pass all the advice he's asked for to the judge?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u145	In fact, the whole file. Maybe there's some of the neighborhood cop's stuff in there and some of the social community team's stuff. That is precisely the provision of information to the courts, which we all believe should be extended. That is what information is so important for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u146	I'd like to go over the role of the district attorney. I understand this is a procedural role. If the officer does not agree with the medical director's assessment or the independent psychiatrist and is going to ask for a sort of second opinion elsewhere, he still has a substantive role to play. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u147	He can also, because the family or others have a strong opinion that things should be different, say: okay, then I'll ask someone else to have the file as complete as possible in court. Because in the end, the judge decides.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u148	For my understanding, the district attorney's role in the proceedings is not limited to the well-known steps? So there could be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u149	Sure, because the family also has perseverance. So if the D.A. says at some point, "I'm not applying for a care authorisation, then the family can just make a request." Provided the psychiatrist says that the criteria for this are met, the family can do the perseverance to ask the judge. So there are checks-and-balances in the system, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u150	But is it, in the event that the district attorney says: the medical director does not advise not to impose compulsory care, especially to the family to ask the district attorney to continue to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u151	The district attorney has all kinds of information and can at some point say that that information gives rise to a second opinion to ask somewhere. Whether that information is unambiguous, then that second opinion probably doesn't have to be. But if he doesn't, and he doesn't think he's gonna get away with it from the judge, he better try to get the picture right in front of the judge, or the judge will do it himself. Then he can use that trial so that the judge gets maximum information. Can I make the appeal possible again as it used to be? I put that in, but it was deleted on the advice of the Council of State. It found that the Law on compulsory ggz already represents a far-reaching improvement in the legal position of the client. According to the Council of State, current practice has not shown the need for an appeal. The client always has the possibility of cassation. Moreover, in many cases the time limit for the authorisation of care will have expired before the appeal is made. The fact that an appeal has been brought may also lead the client to continue to oppose treatment during the period of the care authorisation. The risk is that the client will be deprived of the necessary care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u152	That appeal has been removed, because the client already has many opportunities for participation, but the client's family also has many opportunities for participation and the doctor, of course. What possibility does the client have if he doesn't agree? How can he fight that? He may speak in advance, but if at any time the decision to receive coercive care has been taken, he can no longer challenge it, not on the basis of the facts. Cassatie, after all, is something different from an appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u153	I initially included the appeal in the bill from the idea that you're making quite an invasion of someone's situation. Then the Council of State said: yes, but when I look at the trial like that and I see all the steps in it and its care, you get, if you leave an appeal in it, not that... It's about mandatory care, so the client doesn't have to want it at all. If he goes on appeal, he doesn't want to. Then you maintain that the client, as it were, does not submit to the treatment, because he has always been in his head that he is still in an appeal. So the Council of State says: you have set up a proper course of justice. The appeal does not really lead to anything and has no added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u154	It seems to me right that an appeal has more value than a cassation. That a patient continues to resist, you also reach with cassation. Then he can also say: I can't start the treatment yet. However, the facts are not assessed in cassation. All they're doing is making sure the process went well. So the patient has no way of rebutting the facts and saying: this is said about me, but I really do think differently about it or it is not. There's nothing in there now, is there? The patient can't defend himself at all now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u155	It's mandatory care, otherwise it was voluntary care. The patient won't be jumping to care. Otherwise, he'd do it voluntarily. There's always something for the judge to weigh up. According to the Council of State, you can see that in current practice there is no evidence that there is a great need for an appeal. That's the first thing. Secondly, as I have just said, the Council of State says that you are going to have to be treated and that you can oppose that compulsory treatment in appeal, but you can of course also ask whether the treatment can be stopped during that treatment. You have that right in between. It's not like that care authorisation is forever. That care authority can enter and you can make a request to terminate that interim. So you don't really need that appeal. After all, you can ask that in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u156	Who's the patient asking? Doesn't he ask his doctor? The patient can't ask a judge, can he? That's the whole problem, isn't it, that there's no possibility for the patient to have it independently tested? That it doesn't happen often, I don't think it's worth noting. Even if only one appeal is needed for all the people for whom we make the law, it is important that it is in it. So the minister says the patient can always ask to stop. Who's he asking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u157	To the medical director, who is the independent party in this case. The medical director isn't the treatment. He is the independent care body that monitors whether everything is going well in accordance with what is needed for the patient. The independent care supervisor who checks whether everything goes according to the judge's ruling is the physician-director, which is not the treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u158	The applicant, therefore, who prepares the application for authorisation to take care of the judge, is the Public Prosecutor, the Public Prosecutor. What exactly is it supposed to do, I ask the Minister to make that very clear to the court so that he can judge it? As far as I am concerned, there are still a few gaps, both in the appeal and in the question put by Mrs Dijkstra. Actually, I'd like to take a step back. What should that prosecutor now submit to the judge so that he can judge whether or not to use forced care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u159	In the end, it's up to the judge to determine if he has enough information to assess it. The district attorney is the one who organizes the trial. It must ensure that the image on the basis of which the judge can make a judgment is complete. The physician-director is the one who does the care-related part. That's why it's so important that the district attorney gets back. As a result, the physician-director is not in the uncomfortable two-legged position and can really concentrate on the care content.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u160	The requesting party will ultimately remain the Public Prosecutor's Office. What exactly the physician-director is preparing. There can be a second opinion or a third opinion. Does the D.A. have an adequate view of, for example, the home situation of that care avoider from whom everyone says it would be good to have forced care come in? That is what the family is asking for: we see someone who may suffer damage in the future because he does not get any care and we want forced care to be used here. How the hell does that D.A. know about all these facets? What really needs to be presented to the court to ensure that it is really able to judge whether this forced care should actually be used?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u161	This law regulates that much better than the BOPZ. The district attorney has just been appointed to make sure that all the information is there. So not only from the family, but also, for example, from the district agent or the social district team. It is, of course, very dependent on the person who is involved in whether there is information with a district agent. Maybe that's not relevant and maybe it is. It is precisely the role of the Public Prosecutor to properly organise the provision of information to the judge. That's his process role. The medical director's role is truly caring. He really looks at the concern-related argument that is being put to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u162	In the ideal picture, the prosecutor would really look at what is going on, what is known and whether it is proportionate that a request is made, that he submits it to the judge and that forced care is used. But how real is it that a state's attorney is doing that incredibly deep? That is actually the question before us. How can the judge assume that all these areas have been exposed? It is not just about the judge, who must be able to make a good judgment, but also about the patient, who is given the forced care. It can also be about the family; has it been heard enough? I do wonder whether it is real that the Public Prosecutor at the Public Prosecutor's Office, where the work is already so stacked up, Mrs Bruins Slot said that so strikingly; I think she was talking about the organisation's "poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor-poor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u163	If the district attorney does so in the same way as he did under the BOPZ for a long time, I agree with Mrs Leijten. Therefore, more FTEs, and hence finance, need to be released in order for the Public Prosecutor to actually play an active role. But what exactly did we see in Hoekstra's report? That all kinds of information that was there didn't come together. That is why it is so important that we have the national information system and that everyone puts the information into it properly. That is why it is important that we have the regional consultation so that all the different parties, all of which now communicate separately, actually communicate with each other about patients. That is why it is important that the role of the family is strengthened. In this proposal, therefore, many improvements are being made on the basis, among other things, of the report by the Hoekstra Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u164	Mrs. Leijten, one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u165	Sorry, Chairman. I see that those points are in the law and I have also identified them as improvements. I have said that it is a good thing that attention is paid to this and that there are opportunities. But what guarantee do we have that the information actually comes together in the request made by the district attorney? I really wonder if the prosecutor will always do well, simply from his background, because of the workload at the Public Prosecutor's Office and because of the amount of data that can play a role if he weighs a request properly. When you're not sure, shouldn't you at least allow for an appeal? In this way the patient can turn to something if he finds: not everything is considered, I want a different judgment. Or maybe that's what the family wants. How are we going to follow that judges are given sufficient information to weigh up whether someone should be given forced care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u166	All the elements I have listed have been taken precisely as a result. All these elements must ensure that this happens. It is important to keep the matter legally, caringly and in terms of information in order. In the previous instance, the medical director was appointed to do so. He thus got very heavy and very strange parts in his package. It is therefore a good thing that this has been separated again and that the medical director can really concentrate on the health aspects again and that the prosecutor will do it. He is helped by the national information system, by increasing capacity for it and by the regional consultation, where all the parties, including the Security Houses, share information about the person. It'll give you a much better system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that these were important points for you. The appeal was, too, but now that we have dealt with this point, I suggest that we exercise some self-restraint in the interruptions and that we do interruptions in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u168	Is there no material extension of the hazard criterion? No, with the concept of "serious disadvantage," there is no material extension of the present concept of danger under the BOPZ. The substantive definition of the concept of "serious disadvantage" is linked to the way in which it is defined in the BOPZ and to the case-law relating to it. The concept is only tailored to the different target groups and harmonised with the Care and Force Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u169	We know the reputation of the judiciary and the public prosecutor when it comes to ICT systems. The minister just said that the district attorney can fill that heavy role because he will have a national information system. Is that system there yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u170	I think it's under construction, but I'm sure the Secretary of State can tell us more about it. It is, of course, very important, because what we learned from Hoekstra is that the provision of information was insufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u171	Then I'll wait for the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to provide information. What does the project look like, how large is it and does it or does it not fall below the threshold of BIT, Bureau ICT testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u172	Am I willing to adjust the security level in the ggz to prevent someone from being placed in a tbs setting? The fact that someone is placed in a TBS setting is not the only argument for the security level. It's also about how we work. Currently the programme Continuity of Care is running. This programme aims at improving the link between forensic care provided in criminal law and regular ggz or mental disability care. As clients, the programme has the ministries of Security and Justice and VWS, GGZ Nederland, Zorgverzekerings Nederland and the VNG and runs until 1 July of this year. Under this programme, research firm AEF has been instructed to identify the obstacles to achieving adequate care for dangerous, aggressive and disruptive patients who no longer have a criminal title, or who do not have one at all. An important focus in this research is the question of access to secure places in the regular ggz. Can patients for whom such places are necessary actually be justified there and is the availability of such places in the different regions sufficiently covering? That is currently being mapped out. Then there will be an opinion on what might be needed. I come to the consequences for the regulatory burden and the finances. In order to calculate the costs, the additional costs compared to the BOPZ Act were investigated in 2013 and in 2015. It came out that the administrative burden on the GGZ would increase by EUR 9 million, but that calculation did not take into account that parties should now also do things that do not have a legal anchor in the BOPZ Act, but which are necessary to provide good care, such as taking into account as much as possible the client's preferences and involving the family as much as possible. This is happening in many institutions now, but it does not have a legal anchor in the BOPZ Act. Soon it will have an anchoring in the mandatory ggz Act. Such actions are therefore not new in relation to current practice. Therefore, the estimates made are very global, very rough and with many assumptions. Monitoring should reflect actual costs. As far as the costs of the ggz are concerned, the insurer has a duty of care when it comes to care that is claimed under the Health Insurance Act. This also applies to the preparation and implementation of compulsory care. That's a claim. The Dutch Healthcare Authority supervises compliance with this obligation of care. Do I share the view that a procedure for a care authorisation takes a long time? Yeah, I'll share that. Does it last longer than the BOPZ? Yeah, it could take longer. This is linked to the fact that we want to go through this procedure as carefully as possible. The client is given the opportunity to draw up his own plan of action to prevent compulsory care. Family and relatives are also involved. In addition, there is consultation with the municipality if the conditions for social participation are not met. Well, that's gonna take time. I do think we should monitor in practice how long that will take. I consider the interaction with the patient and the family and also the aspect of participation to be so important that I can justify some extension. They also asked: freedom-limiting measures may vary between institutions; can you respond to the desirability of standardising them? Freedom-limiting measures are by definition tailor-made, so they do not differ from institution to institution, but from person to person. Individual restrictions of freedom are part of the authorisation of care. That's customization. It is not only the treatment that is involved in the authorisation of care; for example, it may include restrictions on the right to receive visits or restrictions on the right of access to means of communication. It may be all other forms of compulsory care mentioned in the law. In other words, it's mostly customization. House rules can and should never be used as a basis for coercion in individual cases. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the house rules were not too strict. He pointed out that house rules may also contain rules relating to the expression of a cultural or religious identity. House rules and involuntary care must be distinguished, as I said just now. House rules apply to everyone in the accommodation. Involuntary care is an individual measure that is only allowed to prevent serious harm if no voluntary solution is possible. Things like no TV in the room or only being available from kosher food are not suitable to put in the house rules; they belong in the information brochure. On the basis of such an information brochure, a client can choose to be admitted to a particular accommodation. How do you ensure the best care in the best place when there are waiting lists? When preparing the care authorisation, consultations shall take place on the appropriate location. If there are waiting lists, consultations will take place in the regional consultations. A turnover ceiling cannot be a reason not to offer a place. It may be that no place can be offered if, for example, the rooms at his or an institution are full. Then you'll have to see if there's a place somewhere else. This must be arranged in advance; an authorisation must be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u173	I think it is very good that the Minister says that a turnover ceiling cannot be a reason for not caring. However, with regard to the care ceilings, there is another problem, namely who will then be charged to. Soon the healthcare provider will have to pay for this expensive care because he has in the contract with the health insurance company that he is not allowed to provide more care than x. Does that mean that this will simply be reimbursed by a health insurance company if there is a turnover ceiling and a healthcare authorisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u174	There's a claim. It may be that an institution is full. Then you can't help it, because an institution has walls and you can't build rooms. However, it is not the case that a turnover ceiling is an argument for this, so that should simply be financed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u175	Then who's funding it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u176	By the health insurance company. What role does self-binding play in ensuring that people receive the care they need? The self-binding declaration allows people to direct care and compulsory care themselves if they would need it. The law provides that this should be taken into account in the process of preparing and implementing the authorisation of care. Then the question was asked: if someone willingly indicates that he does not want to be helped if he only harms himself, don't you think you should honor it? In other words, if someone is willing to indicate that he wants things in a certain way in the future, then that should not be broken if there is an acute danger of life for himself. People who are suicidal often no longer see any way out and cannot tolerate life at that time. They must then be protected against themselves, even if they have indicated earlier that they do not wish to do so. The consequences of their actions in this state of mind are irreversible. An exception has therefore been made to the principle that willful resistance is met if there is only serious disadvantage to the person concerned. In this case, providing protection outweighs the right to self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u177	I asked that question. If there's a psychosis that doesn't involve suicidality, how do we deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u178	The starting point is that via the self-connection declaration people can give their own direction to their care. That is the starting point. The exception is if you say in your self-connection statement: I can only harm myself, let that happen. Of course, it depends on what that is, but if that means you have to let a suicide happen or you don't resuscitate someone, then we have committed an infringement of the law. It's about what's going on. Is it something irreversible that you will never be able to reverse if you allow it? We know that some people who have been rescued from their suicide or survived can be very happy about it at another stage. That is why we have applied this exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u179	The moment it's irreversible, you can break the willful resistance. That's what you're trying to do with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u180	Yes. How do we ensure that municipalities are as consistent as possible with what is already there? The involvement of both municipalities and healthcare providers as well as the Public Prosecutor requires proper coordination. This is possible in the regional consultations, because that is precisely what this is about. Connecting to existing consultation structures is efficient and avoids unnecessary administrative burden of meeting. Do I want to add patient organisations to the regional consultation? I have just said that I think that is a good idea and I will take action where that is not. Isn't the threshold for coercive care going down? This is monitored by the mandatory ggz Act and it is certainly not reduced. The ultimate remedium criterion will always be tested and the principles of proportionality, subsidiarity and efficiency will also be taken into account. The judge will also check it out. That's what the judge does under the BOPZ Act. That does not mean that the threshold is lower. Compulsory care must be registered by the healthcare provider so that the Inspection can monitor this. The IGZ receives a six-monthly analysis from the healthcare provider, which is a legal obligation. The physician-director checks the forced applications within an institution and thus monitors the quality. The interpretation fee shall apply in the event of deprivation of liberty. Is that even with the application for an authorisation? At the time when the care authorisation is being prepared, the person concerned has the right to an attorney. In doing so, he is also entitled to compensation from an interpreter through the Decree on Legal Assistance. Finally. This law alone is not going to change the world. For this purpose, as we discussed in detail in the AA last week, we will have to ensure that care can be provided where necessary. Preferably as much as possible in the district and therefore as much as possible 24x7 hotlines will have to be set up. I've been asked if there's gonna be a single call number. Last week I indicated that in February the switching team will come up with an opinion on what is more convenient: one national number or a regional number. Are we joining 112, or is it the best way to organise this? In the end, a law does not change the world; we will have to do so in practice. I also indicated that on the basis of the monitor of the Trimbos Institute on 14 February, there is an administrative consultation between Zorgverzekerings Nederland, VNG, National Platform GGz and GGZ Nederland. I have asked these parties to agree on specific objectives for the construction of the outpatient teams. If I have these specific objectives, I will forward them to the Chamber; I have also promised to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u181	That is a good commitment, the concrete objectives for the construction of out-of-arms. Is there a monitor at the back so that we can see every year how things are progressing and the Chamber can keep following it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u182	I also promised the monitor. That is one of the commitments I made last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u183	I'm trying to place one more interruption, very quickly, about the municipal hotlines. How do we prevent the VNG from building a whole circus on this when we have to join the parties that are already doing so? What role do you see in this for yourself and how can it be directed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u184	I have said that this is the subject of regional consultation and that it is very inefficient to put aside all kinds of things that are going on and doing well in order to bring something new. It is precisely the parties who are all represented in the regional consultation that will set out their good examples and not just let that go. In general terms, I have promised a letter containing the state of play. I'll send it for the summer. In that I will report on a number of things that have been asked today. Last week I also indicated that the switching team is going to make visually visible which municipalities have a final approach, so that one can see which region it does and does not have. Mr Koekkoek has written a report in which he states that "confused persons" is wrongly a container concept. I haven't read his book yet, but in the media I've only heard good lyrics, especially the text that when people start living more in a neighborhood, we also have to look at our own tolerance towards those people. Do we all have to fit into that one box? And if someone doesn't fit in there, do we see it as deviant? Do we have tolerance for that? If we put everything together in one big container and stick it up like a sticker, we won't get anywhere with it. Mrs Bruins Slot asked for a testable cooperation protocol between the inspection and the VNG. The IGZ and the VNG are going to make cooperation agreements on this. VWS takes the initiative to ensure that the inspection and the VNG make good agreements on cooperation and monitoring. Those agreements must be made on the entry into force of the Health and Force Act and the Law mandatory ggz. The inspection participates in the national chain consultation as part of the chain programme Act mandatory ggz. It focuses on implementation and making agreements within the framework of supervision. They shall establish a joint supervisory framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u185	That's good news. Will that supervisory framework become public, so that the Court can understand it? Can the Chamber get a copy of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u186	I will send a copy to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u187	When will you deal with the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u188	We can do that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u189	That is fine, but I see that Mrs Dijkstra has a question first. Then you can deal with the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u190	I will deal with a number of questions in the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u191	This question is probably not included. I asked about the plan of approach that the patient can draw up with his relatives and the unclearness about it. I would like to hear more from the Minister. It is not defined which conditions should be met. What am I supposed to expect from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u192	I answered that question. We don't want to lay that down strictly in the law. Such a plan of action is very individual. It must be drawn up in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u193	Then it can go either way. I can imagine that there are minimum criteria to be met by such a plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u194	Yeah, it's the judge's decision. The judge will judge what's needed. Within the framework of the involuntary care you can set up a plan of approach. That has several elements. One plan will be very different from the other, depending on the individual situation. Mr. Chairman. The Tanamal amendment to point No. 17 is intended to oblige healthcare providers to indicate in a policy plan how continuity in the provision of care is ensured if mandatory care is transferred to voluntary care or vice versa. The legislative proposal lays down that the policy plan should aim at reducing and preventing compulsory care and at seeking alternatives based on voluntary action. The aim is to prevent a temporary cessation of care and that a transition from compulsory to voluntary care or from voluntary to compulsory care has a negative impact on the health of those concerned. My reaction is that part of this amendment has already been included in the note on the second report. Continuity of care is already part of the care plan. It takes into account the changing need for care, depending on the circumstances. Mandatory care is only part of this. The mandatory ggz Act contains provisions to ensure continuity of care through consultation between parties involved in appropriate care, including the municipality. There is no need to change this in order to ensure continuity of care. This therefore has no added value, but it entails unnecessary burdens. I therefore advise against this amendment. Mrs Tanamal of the PvdA has amended the amendment to item No. 20 submitted to delete Article 1:10 which provides for the duration of the crisis measure...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u195	The Minister has responded so well that we want to withdraw a number of amendments for the sake of time. I would like to mention them now, otherwise the Minister will answer them all, for which I am grateful. However, we are so pleased that we have the amendments to the item Nos. Mrs Tanamal's 20, 28, 29 and 32.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u196	The Tanamal amendments (Doc. 20, 28, 29 and 32) have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u197	We always want to get to know them, especially the Minister. She's updating her records.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u198	I hope I'm doing okay. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 49 of the SP, co-signed by the PvdA, GroenLinks, D66, the PVV, the Christian Union and the Party for Animals on the deletion of the observation measure. I have tried to indicate that the observation measure has real added value for this law, so I advise against this amendment. If it is correct, I shall come to the amendment to item No. 51 of GroenLinks on the introduction of an obligation for municipal authorities to take care of the participation of persons for whom there is a need for ggz. In fact, this obligation already stems from Article 2:1:1 of the Wmo. So it overlaps what's already been arranged. That could be confusing. There are more vulnerable groups who can appeal to the Wmo. These are not explicitly named in the Wmo. Municipalities should provide general or customised services to all those in need of appropriate support. There is a risk that municipalities will use this amendment to make an additional claim for this additional task. It is therefore important to stress that this is merely an explication of the task that already arises from Article 2:1:1 Wmo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u199	So?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u200	I'll take a look at the Secretary of State, because it's about the Wmo. He says he leaves the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u201	Judge Room, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u202	GroenLinks and D66 have tabled the amendment in respect of item No. 52 submitted in order to replace "serious disadvantage" by "damage" in the Act. The definition of "damage', i.e. the content of that concept, is limited. The term "damage" should then be used because it would be less broad than the term "serious disadvantage." This would make fewer people eligible for compulsory care. This is one of the key concepts harmonised following the recommendations of ZonMW, i.e. both the term and the content. According to ZonMW, it is important that both laws are harmonised as much as possible. Harmonisation is also important in the case of multi-problems. The criterion of serious disadvantage is at the heart of harmonisation, otherwise target groups would be treated differently. The concept of "serious disadvantage" used in the legislative proposal is linked to the concept of "danger" as enshrined in the BOPZ Act and elaborated in current case law. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u203	An important element in the Minister's response is the harmonisation with the Care and Force Act. The point is that, since then, we have also adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states that forced care should not take place. I read in this transition from damage to serious disadvantage that this compulsion is more likely to occur. Where does the Minister deduce that this would not be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u204	Because with that concept we have connected to the concept of "danger," as included in the BOPZ Act and elaborated in the current case law. This means that this will not be stretched. That's not the point. We have harmonised this on the advice of ZonMw, but it is not a treat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u205	I'm still thinking about it, and I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u206	I have a very short question, because it listens so closely. If I understand correctly, the Minister says that it is a concept of harmonisation, but that its scope and scope are no different. It's not supposed to stretch it or limit it, so it's actually the same thing, but there's another word. That has to do with harmonisation, so it really doesn't matter for case law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u207	Exactly. It's to prevent us from having different terms in all laws. We have the same terms, which have exactly the same meaning as "danger."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u208	Okay, the minister's moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u209	The amendment in part No. 56 on the confidential person is on the premises of the Secretary of State. Then there is the amendment to item No. 58. This is an amendment by the Labour Party and GroenLinks, on adding a task to the family confidant, namely to identify shortcomings in the structure or implementation of the care and to report to the inspection. The aim is to give the family and relatives through the family confidant the opportunity to identify and report deficiencies in the care, if the person concerned cannot do so himself through the patient confidant. This has already been included in part in the note on the second report. Unlike patients, family members and relatives may be expected to be able to report any deficiencies to the inspection themselves. This is a superfluous provision, but there are no political or legal objections. The family confidant already has the task of reporting and advising the healthcare provider twice a year for the purposes of quality policy. The family confidant is free to report any identified deficiencies to the inspection. This arrangement is considered appropriate and adequate, but it does not harm either, so I leave it to the Chamber to judge. I have two further amendments. One amendment is the amendment to point No. 60 of the CDA and the SGP to have the mayor's decision as an observation measure reviewed by the court within 24 hours, which may decide to terminate immediately. The aim is to build in an additional guarantee. I think this is a good proposal, because I think an additional guarantee is an improvement. If there's no objection, I'll take it from here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u210	Let's get it in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u211	Okay, then it's gonna be in the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u212	Fine, Mr. Chairman. At least I think it's an improvement. I shall now turn to the Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 61 of the Labour Party on the introduction of an independent plan coordinator who assists in drawing up the plan of approach provided for in the legislative proposal. The amendment also sets out the medical director's obligation to inform the relevant relatives of the fact that they can assist the person concerned in a plan of action and to inform the person concerned or his representative or relevant relatives about the possibility of support by a plan coordinator. The aim is to ensure adequate support in drawing up a plan and to prevent family members and relatives from being insufficiently informed about the possibility of a plan of action by the person in a vulnerable position. Firstly, this has already been partially included in the note on the second report. Secondly, what is not recorded can best be left to the field. I therefore reject the amendment to item No. 61.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u213	We have a complicated construction, because I also have live contact with my colleague Tanamal. We have had the suggestion, in good consultation, that a small adjustment would be desirable by the Minister. There may be some confusion about that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u214	I have here that it is already busy around the person concerned: the medical director, an independent psychiatrist, a lawyer, a patient confidant, a family confidant, the district attorney and possibly the municipality. This would add up. That's what I've got here. As regards the suggestion made in the amendment, the opinion is therefore to leave it to the field to decide whether or not adding added value has been added.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u215	I shall come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u216	You can come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u217	I have tabled two amendments, one on the multidisciplinary committee and one on forensic care. Are they for the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u218	I can imagine that the amendment on forensic care will be dealt with by the Secretary of State. However, the amendment on the multidisciplinary committee seems to me to be something, but that is not part of it. I now hear Secretary of State Dijkhoff say that he is dealing with that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u219	Then we await the answer of both Secretary of State. I would like to thank the Minister and give the floor to the Secretary of State of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u220	Mr. Chairman. I'm glad Mrs Leijten is happy to see me. That makes me happy. It's not very common. It's good to say that to each other. A number of questions have been asked about the relationship between the current bill and the Health and Force Act. Perhaps it is a good thing that I should respond to Mrs Leijten's comments and questions. She asked if you shouldn't have one law. She also asked about the development over time. As the Minister pointed out, both draft laws have their own origins and their own history. I would point out that the Law on care and compulsion was not written from within the institution. It was written precisely because we see that the institutions were able to take all kinds of measures for residents. In the development of the Health and Force Act, we have actually said to each other that it is good not to let that happen, but rather to look at what is or is not involuntary care. Further safeguards should therefore be provided. We do see that some convergence is now taking place, even after the last advice of ZonMw. I thought Mrs Leijten suggested not to wait until the evaluation, but to check during the journey whether there are any more lessons to be drawn from the experience and to determine whether further convergence is possible. I'm fine with that. As far as I am concerned, we are not just waiting for the required evaluation, but we are also actively monitoring in the interim to see whether further harmonisation or integration can take place. We can therefore base this on the experience gained with both laws. Whether it is one law or two laws: the Minister also said that you should consider whether there can be cause for differences in care and need for care, which is already there to make a difference in laws. Maybe it's good to remind you of that. For the clients covered by the Health and Force Act, there is often a long-term relationship with the care provider, but family members and relatives often also have an active role in the care institution. Some clients have lived there for decades. This means that involuntary care measures can vary considerably over time and sometimes cannot be applied. To put it simply: it can vary from locking a kitchen cabinet in a living group to holding the client for a moment to calm him down. That's why the Law says care and coercion may not require us to go to court for everything. It is good if this is laid down in a roadmap, as this may result in a certain level of legal protection for clients. Let me give you another example. Suppose a dementia in a home care facility gets a bladder infection, gets medication for that, but doesn't want it. Do you have to go to court or is it okay if an interdisciplinary test takes place and there is a step-by-step plan in the institution? So you can do that, but of course not just because there are considerations behind it. That philosophy is also included in the Law on care and compulsion. Mrs Leijten also asked which professionals we mean in the details of those responsible for care. That list has yet to be drawn up. As far as I'm concerned, this is done in consultation with the field. According to the Care and Force Act, the caretaker must have the right knowledge and competences in relation to the situation in question. We intend to look at the level of education, the competences and the experience of the target group concerned in the regulatory framework for this purpose. That's different in the mandatory ggz Act. I come to the discussion of the amendments, but the caretaker is always BIG registered. However, in mental disability care also often work to everyone's satisfaction behavioral experts who do not have BIG registration. Orthopedagogics sometimes don't have BIG registration, but health psychologists do. The requirement to apply for BIG registration for everything, as in the Law on compulsory ggz, could therefore lead to the situation that some institutions cannot do the work that is currently taking place. I think that's a little out of line. A similar reasoning could apply to the medical director. I shall also come back to the assessment of the amendments, but according to the proposal in Mrs Leijten's amendment, this should always be a care and coercion act in accordance with the Law. I use an old-fashioned term "BOPZ doctor." That should also be the case if no coercion is applied. It would therefore be necessary to employ such a BOPZ doctor, while there is now often a contract of employment. In small care institutions, a doctor does not always work on a contractual basis in case of involuntary care. So I think it's a little too far to say that there should be a BOPZ doctor everywhere. Mrs Leijten presented another case to me: if an institution works properly with home automation, but that measure has not been notified, will there be an IGZ measure? Mrs Leijten is, of course, right: such a case, where there is actually a measure of home automation that leads to greater freedom for the client, while it is qualified as a coercive or involuntary care measure, would not really be a good thing. So I agree with her. By the way, I still believe that in the application of home automation, in which the privacy of patients or residents can be compromised, for example by night monitoring, it is in all cases appropriate to make arrangements with the client, the resident or, if this is not possible, with his relatives. I would like to say that the Health Inspectorate does not agree that this should not be done, or that it considers this involuntary care that should not apply. The requirement is that this be discussed; if this is possible, with the client; if that is not possible, with the family or relatives. So let us make agreements on this, then we can do it. It does not necessarily need to be notified as involuntary care, but agreements have to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u221	I have another question about the previous point. I think that the Secretary of State is very easily getting over the point that freedom-limiting measures in care for the elderly or mental disability do not require any legal test or guarantees. Actually, I'm not okay with that. We had extensive legal treatment in 2013, but it still makes me feel that this matters in this country: the more vulnerable you are and the less you can express your own wishes, the less legal protection you have. That is not good, and that is why we should vote against that bill. I suggest we at least keep the BOPZ doctor. It monitors the level of forced care deployed, its phasing-out and the alternatives. As an independent he goes next to the one who needs this care, so that it is not part of the normal care process, but something exceptional. And then the Secretary of State says: I don't do that, because hiring a BOPZ doctor in small institutions is impossible. If that's the only problem, then there's no problem, is there? Then we can just put in the BOPZ doctor who monitors that, right? Then we do this on a contractual basis with small institutions and with recruitment from large institutions. I am concerned about the principle of law. I want the Secretary of State to go into that without putting organisational ram as a defense. It's the principle that matters to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u222	I respond to Mrs Leijten's proposal as stated in the amendment. I interpret that as follows. It says there should always be a doctor. It always has to be a doctor, it can't be anyone else. He or she should also be there if there is no involuntary care and he or she should be employed. I agree with Mrs Leijten that it is very good to talk to each other about whether there should be no further guarantees. We can talk to each other about the question of when such a doctor should be called. That's what you do in involuntary care. If it doesn't necessarily have to be a doctor, but it can also be a behavioral expert, depending on the sector you're talking about, and if this person doesn't have to be a special employee, but can also look at these matters on a contractual basis, maybe we can find each other. If the amendment to that effect can be reworded, I am prepared to help with that. Maybe we can find each other. I am not concerned with the principle, but rather with the question of whether it is workable in practice. Can we ensure that people who are staying in a small care institution and who have a need for involuntary care can also receive care in that institution? That must indeed be surrounded and checked, perhaps by a contractd doctor. I have every willingness to look into this. When it comes to involuntary care, not only doctors but also other experts and the possibility of contract hire we can come to an end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u223	Excuse me, I was coughing in the microphone. What the Secretary of State is doing now, I find a little faint. In the explanatory statement to the amendment, he can clearly see what the author wants, namely to improve legal protection. The problem seems to be that there is "in service." I still have to find that, but that could just be an article. However, the explanatory memorandum does not state that it must be "in service." The doctor must supervise the legal protection of people who are subject to forced care. This is about minimising the difference between people in mental disability care and care for the elderly who are forced to receive care and those in the same situation in mental health care. The BOPZ doctor, who is already doing so and has the task of doing so, is removed from the law. That's a deterioration. If the Secretary of State agrees with that principle of law, will we get out of it, but will we agree that this kind of detail does not have to stand in the way of the Secretary of State's embrace of the principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u224	I thought I had just exchanged with Mrs Leijten that I embraced the principle, but I would point out that in the wording of the amendment there are a number of problems which may not be workable in practice. Hence my proposal to see if you can do it involuntary care, whether you can get it done by not only a doctor, but also other experts and whether you can get it done not only by someone who is employed, but also by someone who works on a contract. This way you prevent small institutions from getting into trouble. This applies not so much to the institution, but to the resident or client who needs other care and would then have a problem because he lives in a small residential care institution. My offer is still to perhaps meet each other a little bit and help us to come up with a wording, both of us maintaining the principle without getting the practical issues that could be particularly to the detriment of vulnerable residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u225	Mrs Leijten, very briefly, because the clock is also ticking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u226	It will only happen to you that you are being forced to take care and that you have no legal protection! That's what we're here in the Chamber for. This is not a point I'm making for the first time. I want to know from the Secretary of State if he's embracing this amendment and if he's saying he's taking over. 'Cause we're gonna figure it out. Then he can do so in the wording when it comes to legal protection and the position of the medical director as laid down in the Law on compulsory ggz. Those who do so can best be left to the specialists in the care of the elderly and to the doctors for the mentally handicapped. That is what they have already shaped. They already fulfil the task of a medical director in the BOPZ. And that is what this amendment requires.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u227	You are referring to the amendment to item No. 59.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u228	I repeat my proposal. We agree on the principle and on the protection needed in such situations. I would ask Mrs Leijten to look at the wording to see if we could come to an agreement. After all, we agree on the principle. That's an offer I still want to maintain. I think we'll find a way out of that. Then the point of combining functions of the patient confidant and the complaints officer. In the Wkkgz legal process, it has been said that, in order to reduce administrative burdens under conditions, the functions of the complaint officer and the trusted person could be combined. There's a lot of discussion about that. Mrs Leijten made a number of comments on this. The question is whether this combination of complaints officer and trusted person is so happy in all cases. A number of comments have also been made in the field. With Mrs Leijten, I attach great importance to the independence of the staff member concerned. I can also see that if you combine that position with that of a complaint officer, the question is whether it is always so independent. There must be no doubt in the client that someone is unconditionally on his or her side. I am therefore prepared to consider whether I can adapt the regulation in such a way that in these cases it is not possible to combine functions. That possibility exists in the AMvB on the basis of Article 57 of the Health and Force Act. As far as I am concerned, this will regulate the independence of the client confidant. This will also be done in the AMvB on the basis of Article 11 (1) of the compulsory ggz Act. There is another point in the amendment. That's the way it's organized. The question is whether we should organise this in the same way as in the ggz, with a nationwide foundation. My proposal would be to use the existing institutions, such as Care Interest and other organisations, but to ensure in the legislation that it is an independent thing and that such an official should not be employed by the institution either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u229	I think it would be useful for the Secretary of State to mention the number when discussing amendments. Now we're all browsing hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u230	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 56. That is now an amendment by myself and Mrs Voortman. I admit that the construction of a foundation in a law article is a wanted construction. But that was necessary to ensure that independence, where that client confidant is now being thrown together with the institution's complaint officer in a more detailed set of rules by the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State promises here that it will be an independent position, that that official will not be employed by the institution and that someone who is being forced to care will always be informed of the existence of that independent client confidant, then the amendment can be regarded as superfluous. But it's the three demands he says yes to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u231	I agree with those terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u232	That will make the amendment on item No. 56 withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u233	The Leijten/Voortman amendment (Doc. 56) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u234	Mrs Leijten also asked about the timetable of the AMvB's outpatient compulsion. The Minister has already said a few things about this. Indeed, we intend to conduct the consultation on this AMvB in the first half of 2017, so that the veil will go to the Chamber in early 2018. Mrs Bruins Slot asked whether the conditional authorisation for 18-plus young people in the intellectually handicapped sector would be useful. This is also the subject of an amendment, on item No. 62. The Health and Force Act already provides the possibility to include involuntary care outside an institution and in order to prevent forced admission in the care plan for the benefit of an 18-player. That doesn't require anyone to be admitted first. In the conversation between the caregivers and the client it may be discussed that, if the agreements are not complied with, the serious disadvantage can become so great that there is no solution other than an involuntary admission. Suppose that a forced admission is involved, then the request goes to court through the CIZ. I doubt whether it is of added value to add the separate step of conditional authorisation. Appointments can already be made. I think Mrs Bruins Slot agrees with me that, if it were to come to a recording, the intervention of the judge should always be required. I do not think the added value of the conditional authorisation is strong. Mrs Dijkstra asked a question about the confidential person. Who's gonna pay for it? I'm going to further strengthen the independent nature of the officer who supports the client. There is an accommodation available. In the letter of 12 December, I indicated what that function meant. The costs shall be borne by the healthcare provider. Making a client-confidence person available is simply part of providing good care. Article 57 of the Health and Force Act also includes this as such, as this must always be offered to the client. I will inform the Chamber very soon about the details. I have just promised Mrs Leijten that she will be in an independent position. The trusted person cannot be employed by the healthcare provider. I think I have answered Mrs Dijkstra's questions. I now come to the debate on the amendments. The amended amendment by Mr Leijten on part No. 50 refers to the definition of the caretaker. I have just referred to an area of expertise designated by an arrangement. I would point out that in the sector in which people are covered by the Health and Force Act, it is very common that it is not just a BIG registered person who is the qualified person, but also others. I have pointed out that this should be a behavioral expert in the event of behavioral problems. That is why I reject the amendment. I would point out that there is also an amendment tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. I will take this with me immediately; it is the amendment to item No. 54. This is an amendment that is actually a bit on the other side of the government's proposal. This amendment says that you need to have many more caretakers; in fact, you need to allow everyone to do so. For the same reason, I would advise against the amendment. We have said that it must be a designated expert or a doctor, who is also capable of assessing these serious measures regarding involuntary care. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 54 I would therefore advise against. The amendment in part No. 51 has already been judged by the Minister. The amendment in part No. 56 has been withdrawn, in the light of my commitment. The amendment in part No. Mr Van der Staaij asked that a roadmap should not be followed if the profession had adopted a directive. The roadmap does nothing de facto but connect with the normal professional behaviour of healthcare professionals. If a client opposes the care, I think it is only natural for a colleague to be asked for advice. If a restriction of freedom is seriously considered, it is only natural to ask for the appropriate expertise of a doctor or a behavioral expert. Of course, a roadmap brings with it some degree of administrative burden, but it has a scaling-up character. It is therefore limited in principle, and once an alternative to involuntary care has been found, the need to go through the roadmap lapses. I would point out that even if there is a directive, you come up with something like a roadmap when you ask the professionals how they're going to do it. Therefore, the added value of not having a roadmap if there is a directive does not seem to me to be very great. That is why I do not recommend that amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 59. That's the amendment on the medical director. I understand that Mrs Leijten agrees with my offer to try to come up with a wording on which we can agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u235	I'll adjust that. Of course, it doesn't matter whether it's a contract or an employment contract. Except the Secretary of State just said that he would want there to be someone other than a doctor. I like to say that this person really has the definition of medical director. We still have to talk about it, but I don't want us to say it could be someone else. To reinforce this argument, I would just like to say that this is also the wish of the Association of Elder Medicine Specialists and of the Dutch Association of Doctors for Intellectual Disability. The Council of State also advises to retain the function of medical director in the Health and Force Act. How exactly that function is then filled by the field, let's leave it to the field, but let's keep the position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u236	Perhaps Mrs Leijten will then be able to look at the precise wording. Reference is now made to Article 3 of the BIG Act, which includes a specific category of professions. However, behavioral experts, I say, are not among them. That would be an obstacle. If Mrs Leijten would like to take a look at that, then we can assess whether that still gives rise to additional questions. Then we have the amendment to item No. 62 on that conditional authorization. I've been reacting to that for a while. I do not think that, even in view of the agreements that are to be made in the current situation, it has added value that you say to a young person: you have to behave in this way, otherwise we will have to resort to forced admission. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u237	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Security and Justice, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u238	Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of subjects to deal with which amendments have also been tabled. I start with the position of the D.A.'s office and then come to talk about care clearance and data exchange. Many of your MPs have asked questions about the position of the D.A.'s office. Does the D.A. have to have that part? Isn't it becoming too much criminal law and too little care? Is there capacity for that? That kind of question has been asked. The second letter of amendment chose to place the applicant's role with the D.A. instead of with the medical director. There are many reasons for this, including that the Public Prosecutor is ideally suited to assess the information on danger and that in this way the medical director is relieved, so that he can concentrate on the task of care. In our view, this does not mean that it is too criminal in nature. There is, of course, an aspect of deprivation of liberty, which requires a proper legal test. That can be done very well by the prosecution before it is decided whether or not to impose it on the judge. The request for authorisation for care will then be made in close cooperation between the prosecutor who has to do it and the medical director, with the prosecutor looking primarily at the legal aspects and the process and the physician-director at the content of the care. The D.A. now has experience of this in the framework of the Special Admissions Act in psychiatric hospitals. As many of the spokesmen have rightly pointed out, this must be more active than we are used to. This has been addressed in the context of the Social Security Improvement Programme. As far as capacity is concerned, 5 FTE extra officers, 13 FTE extra prosecutors and 16 FTE extra administrative staff have been allocated to the public prosecutors in 2016 to deal with this. There are also three pilots currently running on the optimisation of the active applicant role of the Public Prosecutor. We can take advantage of this in various ways when considering the extent to which the presence at the prosecutor's office is desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u239	To what extent the public prosecutor's presence at the hearing is desirable, that is a crazy sentence. The D.A. becomes the key figure here, which must collect all the information and ask the judge whether someone should be given forced care. We must now consider whether it is present at the hearing. Can the Secretary of State explain to me in what situations he considers that, in the event of a request for deprivation of liberty, forced care, by the D.A.'s office, the Public Prosecutor should not be present?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u240	This is in cases where experience has shown that the authorisation has been drawn up in such a clear manner and that the court generally has so few questions to the public prosecutor about its legal aspects that presence does not add value. That doesn't mean I'm waving it away. I agree with the MPs who pointed out that we expect more from the D.A. than has been the case so far under the BOPZ Act. However, I do not want to go so far as to say that it must be a 100% obligation, because it is not necessarily effective in improving the legal position of the person concerned, which costs a lot of time, energy and money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u241	But then I wonder why we put the D.A. in a position to do this. I'm really serious about that. I would find it a serious degree of neglect if a district attorney prepared his file, stapled it, dropped it on the judge's desk and then hammered it off. I don't think that's what this law was meant for. At first, there was a multidisciplinary committee that would look after everything, which could well weigh all interests and, for example, could also cover aspects of privacy protection better than the Public Prosecutor's Office in his requesting role. Now it is said here: well, occasionally not present, we will see it and we need to be there a little more often than is the case now, but if it is all legally correct for the rest, a staple can be stamped through and it can be stamped. That's not how we deal with forced care, is it? That's not what this law was for, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u242	Mrs Leijten first sketches an image of herself and then says that that is what I said, when that is not the case. It also makes the trial before the hearing itself seriously inadequate by describing it as if it were merely a filling-in form on which the judge then puts a stamp on it. We know from experience how these processes work. So we also know from experience that in a number of cases it is very useful for the prosecution to be present. Then that's what needs to happen. We also know that in certain cases this has no added value. Then, of course, you can choose to force it, so that you uphold the principle that someone has always been there when the judge put the stamp and canceled it. The question, however, is whether it is useful to be physically present there as well when all the preliminaries and weighing has led to so much clarity that, according to experience, the judge does not see any added value in it and does not like to repeat the oral part of the hearing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u243	The operation of this law must, of course, be voluntary care and the more complex cases should be brought before the courts and prepared by the Public Prosecutor. I hear the Secretary of State say that more needs to be done than under the BOPZ Act, but that it will not be the case that the prosecutor is present at all cases. Then where exactly is the middle ground, also given that the district attorney's job is becoming much wider? After all, he must involve family and actively in consultation with the medical director. The care authorisation has many more facets than the current IBS scheme under the BOPZ Act. Where exactly is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u244	That's exactly why those pilots are running now. That's not something you can cut in advance. The prosecution is indeed doing much more now, but that is in the process of obtaining the authorization. So much more is happening in that. It deals with all the aspects mentioned by Mrs Bruins Slot. That is why we do not expect to be satisfied with the way in which the Public Prosecutor is dealing with it under the BOPZ and we are working with the pilots to see how we can achieve a new relationship. In addition, I expect the prosecution to be present more often. We have also made funds available for this purpose. We note with the prosecution that the attitude towards the presence in that sense really changes. The D.A.'s office takes a different attitude on that point than it has in the past. But you can't make some sort of matrix in advance: in that case, you can, not in that case. Experience must therefore also be gained in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u245	I ask you to do so because this requires a great deal from the Public Prosecutor's Office. These hearings often take place not in court but on location. Those locations are all over the country. The district attorneys have to travel for that. This simply means that there is also going to be a very large investment in time. The time span in a week of the five prosecutors who joined us is not so great in that respect. My specific question is: what will the Secretary of State do? Is there going to be a pool of specialized officers? Or does every officer get this as a part-task, so every officer has to travel to locations several times every two weeks to do these sessions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u246	Those five extra officers are part of what we're doing right now. From 2018 onwards, 5.3 million will be reserved annually in our budget for the active role of prosecutors and prosecutors under the Wvggz. The pilots are going to give an insight as to whether this amount is enough. In that respect, of course, the public prosecutor has a great deal of autonomy. So I don't have a blueprint for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u247	One of the main recommendations for justice was that it should become more involved in the target group for which it was partly responsible and for which it will be fully responsible. So there is a very big task to get knowledge and expertise, skills like how you deal with these people and how you read reports. In short: a lot really needs to be done. This is not least a cultural change. In what way is the Secretary of State going to lead that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u248	Mrs Bouwmeester first asks a very substantive question about the prosecution and then asks how I am going to lead it. In any case, the Minister has the role of authority in the prosecution, but when it comes to leadership, the Public Prosecutor has, above all, a great deal of autonomy. The relationship may therefore be different from that of other ministries and implementation organisations. The public prosecutor himself is very actively engaged in considering in the pilots how best to fill that out and, in anticipation of this law, recognizing that it has to be different than under the current BOPZ and that it has a different role in it. I think Mrs Bouwmeester's word 'culture change' is very appropriate. That is why I strongly believe that the prosecution itself is now engaged in these activities, is actively engaged in them and has a changed view of them. That gives me more confidence than if I found nothing happening there and I had to figure out something in the department to force it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u249	Excuse me, I used the word "leading" and that is, of course, very wrong in combination with the justice system and the state's attorney's office. So I understand the confusion. I mainly asked about cultural change. That must be controlled by remote control. In my contribution, I asked whether this would be monitored, what the results and the effects would be and when the Chamber could see them. I assume the rulers want to see them themselves. Are they coming to the room? And when? How does the Secretary of State see that? How does he organize that process? That was actually the question I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u250	I would therefore like to take Mr De Lange's question with me. He asked if there's a preliminary picture of the pilots. I'll start with that. We don't have that image right now. We expect the results in April. I also think it would be a good idea to inform the Chamber afterwards about what is to be concluded. If a method is then chosen, we need to consider whether there is any point in giving figures for the entry into force of the law. We must therefore keep an eye on whether, for example, there is an increase in the presence of the prosecution. We'll have to inform the Chamber about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u251	Thank you for this commitment. It is not just the simple question of whether the prosecutor is at the hearing or not, but also the huge task facing the judiciary. It's nice to see if the room can see if it's going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u252	I do think that we should do more than just an abacus of attendance at the sitting and that we should give the Chamber a more detailed interpretation of the development, quality and content, of the role of the public prosecutor in this new system, once the law has entered into force. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked about the information system that the D.A. has to work with. Work is now under way on the chain information system. That is why the chain programme now identifies with all interested parties exactly what information should be shared. Then you need to put the ICT in order that can support this information exchange. The aim is to align as much as possible with existing provisions of the supply chain partners. There is therefore not yet a complete picture of the size of the project. The expectation is that it stays below the BIT limit, but of course you don't know that for sure until the mapping is completed. That is what Mrs Leijten's amendment is about. 53 together. You won't be surprised that I'm coming up with dissuaded now that I've just defended and explained the role of the D.A.'s office. I also think that we should not forget that this multidisciplinary committee did not go away for nothing. Partly at the request of the Chamber, it was removed because it was rather bureaucratic and led to high costs. Procedures had to be completed twice: once before the multidisciplinary committee and once before the judge. That role was therefore deleted and deposited with the medical director in the first letter of amendment. The second letter of amendment decided to invest that role with the D.A. That too has been considered. One of the opinions of the Hoekstra Committee was also to invest it with the Public Prosecutor. Mrs Leijten further asked about the healthcare authorisation. Could there be confusion about that because you have different legal systems? The issuing of a care authorisation by a criminal court is not forensic care, but the issuing of an authorisation under the Law mandatory ggz. If the criminal court enforces that care authorisation, he does so on the basis of the Law mandatory ggz. The D.A. is progressing and starting the process of preparation and delivery. This is the same as in a civil procedure for granting a care authorisation under the Law mandatory ggz. Therefore, if he issues a care authorisation under the Law mandatory ggz, the criminal court will have the same review framework as the civil court if the authorisation under the same law is to be granted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u253	That's how I understood it, but it's part of the punishment. If a person is punished with a care authorisation, that is a civil procedure with a different appeal procedure than in criminal law............................................................................................................................................................................................ That is also the point made by the Council in its case-law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u254	Yes, in the example that the judge closes the criminal case, it is possible that he is now semantically imposing no punishment but giving a care authorisation, because he thinks someone within the ggz should be treated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u255	But within the conviction, it's a mandatory treatment within the ggz, isn't it? Or does the legal basis for condemning someone lapse? You are more attorney than I am, I say to the Secretary of State, but I understand that something complicated can happen here when someone says "I want to appeal against my conviction" because that is a civil procedure. I get the idea. I totally understand why you say that, in addition to punishment, we believe that a care authorisation should be considered in the context of the Law on compulsory ggz. Then you'll have to see if that's still appropriate at that point. But then it's two different trajectories. As soon as you say in criminal law 'a civil law measure has been taken', I think you are in trouble, as the Justice Council has also informed us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u256	I fear that there are so many complex options in practice that it will be difficult to keep this simple. It can be side by side, it can be side by side. It may also be that TBs have already been imposed, that the judge who wishes to terminate, but nevertheless considers compulsory care necessary in the ggz and then gives an authorisation to do so. This is something that was once added from a criminal sentence as a measure, for example a TBS measure after the sentence, after detention. The judge may say at the time of the extension application: I find tbs no longer appropriate, but other tools, tools from another box, the care permission under Wvggz I find appropriate. Then you're dealing with another regime. This may indeed lead to a complex succession or a complex succession, but both have their own legal protection regime. So I don't think you can make it simple very quickly. In practice, individuals are at the heart of the matter. Different measures may therefore apply, either over time or because, for example, TBs or any other measure is appropriate in the care, but after serving a sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u257	If it's temporary, I can see something about that. Then it follows one another, but if you are subject to a civil procedure in the context of punishment, I think you are dealing with exactly what the Council is saying for the case-law. What exactly are you to appeal as a convict if you don't want that forced care or if you think it is wrong? What procedure do you follow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u258	That depends on the ground on which it was granted. If granted on the basis of the Wvggz, you have to deal with the same procedure as a case under the Wvggz that would go through a civil court. At any time, the criminal court may issue that authorisation, including under Wvggz. In this way, you avoid having to go back to another judge before such a procedure and two judges at the same time turn to the same individual. If that is the case, you do not have a good view of the confluence of what those two judges, one on the punishment side and the other on the care side, are doing. Mrs Voortman asked about the exchange of information and its proportionality. The starting point of the bill is that you only exchange data necessary for the implementation of the law. The information to be exchanged shall be specified and explained in that law. The explanatory memorandum to the second letter of amendment sets out by measure and stage of implementation the information to be exchanged and the need for and legal basis for that exchange. Mr Van der Staaij asked about the exchange of information with municipalities. Are there going to be all kinds of different standards now? We have an interest in as much clarity as possible. The VNG and other chain partners implementing the Wvggz are the clients of the Wvggz chain programme. Important objectives of this programme are to ensure cooperation at regional level and to secure mutual exchange of information. The approach within that programme is to involve municipalities early and well and to align them in terms of implementation and exchange of information. In addition to this process, we will lay down rules in lower regulation on how the implementing parties should share information. This includes rules on technical standards to be applied. In this way, we will limit local differences as much as possible and come to clarity. Mrs Dijkstra asked whether there was a national guarantee system before the entry into force of the law. The starting point is that the information exchange takes place digitally and safely. That's got to happen all over the chain. That's why we have that chain program. The manner in which the phased implementation of the exchange takes place and the conditions laid down therein shall be determined jointly. Mrs Dijkstra also had a question about the bsn. She asked whether children's records are also kept for 15 years. You will need that data and sometimes also the civil service number to be able, for example, to link imposed permissions to performed care. An authorised body will be designated for the processing of the bsn. The Minister does not himself receive the bsn's but the anonymized data that cannot be traced back to a person. The retention period of fifteen years is consistent with the general retention period of legal data in the WGBO and therefore applies in width.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u259	I have a question about the Secretary of State's previous comment on the ICT system. He says they're working on that, but I'm curious to see what orderality will be. It is, of course, important that that is in order before this law comes into force. Is there enough time to get that in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u260	I will come back to that in detail in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u261	We'll write down that point for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u262	Finally, I come to my opinion on the Leijten amendment in part No. 55. The amendment lays down strict separation on the basis of the title, a criminal title in the care or a civil title. I would strongly advise against this, because the three laws jointly place the focus on looking at the client, the need for care and the treatment. Then we look at the security that may be needed, but we should not just look at the title under which the care is provided in a legal way. Over the past ten years we have come to the development of a whole system of forensic care, partly on the basis of a motion by CDA Senator Van de Beeten, which was widely adopted by the First Chamber in 2004. It called on the government to provide the necessary link between curative and penitentiary provisions. The law of forensic care that was passed here a few years ago also assumes that. Also for tbs............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ It is a measure in which care is central. Mrs Leijten refers to the JJI where the divorce was made, and that is true, but frankly, the picture starts to tilt with the experts. There are explorations to see if you can make facilities closer to the environment of the young people with small-scale facilities. In this way, you could flexibly put the client at the centre and make a client-focused combination of care and security measures that are needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u263	I don't know if I've come to the right place with the Secretary of State for Justice. They are actually ggz patients who can be severely stigmatized when they are forced into hospital. They can be violent when they end up in a forensic setting. Isn't that seriously stigmatizing and isn't that a kind of bankruptcy of the good organisation of the ggz? That is what this amendment seeks to do. I understand that it has been put on the table with this Secretary of State, but I do not think that people who are being forced from care and who are not convicted should be treated in prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u264	I do come from a very different angle. Frankly, I find this as a warm advocate and fierce defender of the TBs almost a stigmatizing image for the people sitting there. In practice, the disorder and not treating the people sitting there in time is often the reason why the law was later broken. In the image of disorder and in the care that is needed, there is no crucial difference whether we were there in time for someone with such a serious disorder and risk to the environment to receive a care measure, or those cases where we were unfortunately too late and there was also a punishment in addition to this care measure. The TBs themselves is not the punishment, but a care measure. The punishment is independent of that, or in some cases one does not get involved because it goes straight to TBs. From my point of view, it is not a stigma because I do not have a negative picture of people who are receiving care and treatment of the disorder under a criminal law measure, other than that unfortunately we were not present in time which has already broken the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u265	I think it's great that the Secretary of State is a warm advocate of TBs, but in the eyes of people who are being forced into care, who are being picked up from the street or in the house and then sent to prison, that will be different. The same applies to their environment. I really don't think it's the right way to turn it around.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u266	A TBS clinic is something other than a prison in my eyes and probably in the eyes of the people who are there. I also think that we do not agree on this and that I shall therefore leave it to this amendment to be discouraged. I'm through with the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u267	Thank you. We're about to suspend for five minutes. Then we'll start with the second term. Mrs Leijten then has thirteen minutes, Mr De Lange four, Mrs Bruins Slot six, Mrs Voortman four, Mrs Bouwmeester eight, Mrs Klever two, Mr Van der Staaij five and Mrs Dijkstra five. I would add that Members do not have to make full use of that speaking time. They may also be shorter. They certainly want to concentrate on the essential points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u268	Mr. Chairman. It is good that you say how much speaking time we have left. This is important legislation. I may not be able to make up for the time left, but I would like to give more room for those Members who need more time than you have just mentioned. Many topics have been discussed. It's about something crucial. I know what you mean, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u269	Five minutes? About five minutes? I understand what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u270	This isn't a notebook meeting. We have no speaking time...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u271	Let me turn it around. How many minutes do you need? I understand Mrs Leijten's point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a plenary debate in which speaking time is not limited in principle. In view of the time I will deal with my speaking time carefully, but I would like to stick to the principle that we have no limit to speaking time in plenary debates in the House of Representatives. If we're gonna start with that, we'd better do everything in a notebook.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u273	I'm trying to work things out with you. Then try to focus on the essentials. Perhaps that will be possible around five or six minutes of speaking time. But indeed, it is up to you. You have given your own time limits; I looked at the first term. Let us try to focus on the main points. They seem clear to me when I listened to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u274	I'll reopen the meeting for the second term. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Leijten for the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u275	Mr. Chairman. Taking someone's freedom is a criminal offence in our country. Going to forced care must be surrounded by good legal protection. I think it sounds very good that the rulers say that care adapts to the person. I fully agree with the statement that it should be an ultimatum remedium and that measures other than forced care should always be considered first. But how great is the risk that the person will have to adapt to care because it is so arranged or because there is no other way to do so? That risk is incredibly lurking, especially in the Law of care and coercion if you ask me. I believe that this law is based far too much on what an institution can or should not do instead of the question of what is needed for the person. I really think that the law on care and coercion does not give sufficient credit to the following principle. I am worried that we will only get the AMvB in early 2018. I just heard that saying, while that was actually also the intended moment of law enforcement. How does the government, when there is already an entry into force, see the cooperation with this Parliament, which has said it wants to see, discuss and perhaps adapt the AMvB? Is there any other way in which that can run together in time? The Care and Force Act has another definition of the caretaker who looks at the implementation of forced care. The Secretary of State says this is because there are sometimes healthcare professions not covered by the BIG Act, which are not BIG-registered, in the Law on care and coercion and in those disciplines. I think we should uphold the principle of BIG. At the moment when certain professions are not in there, although they do belong in it, the Law BIG needs to be amended, not the other way around. The advantage of this is that a person with a BIG registration is subject to disciplinary law and may lose his profession if he does not do it properly. In fact, that is a kind of emancipation of the professions covered by that bill. That is why I strongly support my amendment to align this with the law on compulsory ggz and the law on care and coercion. Perhaps the amendment should say that we are doing this on a temporary basis, so that we first adapt the healthcare professions to those disciplines, so that they are in it, and then let it enter into force, but that we do say that in the end the caretaker, who controls the forced care and its implementation, is always BIG registered. For that we have all kinds of demands, such as after-school and further education, the loss of your profession as soon as it is not going well and disciplinary law. I think that is something very important. So I'm just gonna put this down with the Secretary of State. As regards legal protection, I note the following. Forced care doesn't go through the judge. I think that's really problematic. It's a different legal protection. Those who are less able to express their wishes, those who are less able to stand up for themselves in the country, are given less legal protection. Let that work on you. That doesn't fit, does it? Surely we must ensure that the practice becomes so that you can give that legal protection? We're not gonna abandon legal protection because it's complicated in healthcare practice, are we? I really think that's the wrong way. There are two bright spots, though. The Secretary of State and I are going to find out that the BOPZ doctor or the medical director in the Health and Force Act will be given his position. That's what we just agreed. And the client confidant gets an independent position, at least independently of the care institution. In the case of forced care, this is always pointed out. I'm okay with that. The Secretary of State has said that he does not want to wait until the two laws have been harmonised. I have made a fervent plea to make one of them until there is an evaluation. He believes that this can also happen in a working way. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State says that harmonisation of laws continues and that the evaluation is not awaited;]] [[points out that harmonisation should only lead to greater legal protection rather than less legal protection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u276	The background to this is that, in my opinion, there is a more beautiful form of legal protection, as I have said before, in the Ggz Act. I think you can very well apply it to the practice of long-term care. Then the justice department, with the D.A. in a requesting role. I'm worried about that. There are pilots we're learning from now, but I'll ask the Secretary of State for Security and Justice when it's good and when you can give go or not. I find it worrying that he is already pre-ordering the absence of the district attorney at a hearing. One of the major criticisms of the BOPZ evaluation was that the prosecutor was often absent. If you want to involve the social component in your whole mind, with nuisance or not, and the potential risk of a person who doesn't get care, when we think he should be given care, how do we guarantee that this is sufficiently balanced if the prosecutor doesn't even appear at the hearing? I've argued for a multidisciplinary committee and I'm sticking with that. That was nice in the initial bill. That came from an express wish of the field. I think it's a shame we've deviated from that. I have said enough about mixing punishment and non-penalty. I have tabled an amendment on this, and I am holding on to it. The Secretary of State has not touched on a point on which I would like to move, namely that the monitoring of the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee expires or lapses. It's been two years, and now it's done. This has been discussed in the Committee on Security and Justice and the further compliance with the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee is also considered to be finite. I would think that would be a shame, because these recommendations led to legislation, but also included all kinds of advice on the ground. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government has accepted the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission;]] [[noting that the monitoring of the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission is no longer taking place;]] [[Whereas it is very important to ensure that the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission are maintained;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure compliance with the recommendations of the Hoekstra Committee's report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u277	I think this is a sympathetic motion. I think it would be wise to have that done. Who is Mrs Leijten thinking of if she wants supervision? Who's supposed to oversee this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u278	I'll leave it to the government to fill it out. I do not know how that is being monitored at the moment. You could imagine that, if that happens by a certain committee or a certain supervisory body, it will remain that way. It doesn't really matter to me. I am particularly concerned that we should not let go of these wise lessons and watch them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u279	And that it is done by individuals who are at some distance from those who implement the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u280	I think that's a good idea. If the government wants to check whether there is overlap with other active teams or projects, I would be fine with that, but I am concerned that it does not fall away. We have all talked about how important these recommendations have been and how tragic it was that we needed that committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u281	The Hoekstra Committee has, of course, made many more recommendations, including on the safety aspects. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u282	I am concerned with all the recommendations, including those on DNA collection. I told you it came from my colleague spokesperson in the field of security and justice. He said: you have that important debate; this is something I'm worried about; do you want to bring it in? I am therefore concerned with all the recommendations. That is why I also deal with this under the heading "State Secretary for Security and Justice'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u283	Thirdly, I would like to say that I agree with that good proposal. It's so incredibly good that I just made the proposal myself. However, I had not yet had a commitment to this. It's a good thing it's in the motion. My suggestion to the directors was to do it in accordance with the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. That's 14 of them. They are divided in a row between directors, otherwise the weather will be only Public Health or only Justice. Pre-arrange when you get reports and when you discuss them. Then you can make it wider and still stay on the main line. I hope that Mrs Leijten will give that suggestion to the cabinet in her motion so that it can respond in this way. Then I'll support that motion with all my love.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u284	I think that's a good suggestion. I believe that I have formulated the motion so broad and open that the government should simply save all this kind of good advice from the Chamber. As far as I am concerned, she is in line with recent practice in following these recommendations. If a good committee were to look into this, I would be happy if she would continue her work. Then I will deal with the mandatory ggz Act, which is before us today. The most important point was, of course, the observation measure. I seriously wonder whether it is in the interests of the patient or the family to observe for three days whether someone can pose any danger in the future, while at that time you can also start preparing for a care authorisation, which actually leads to the submission of a request to the judge. If someone has a mental disorder and avoids care and the family or the caregivers worry and are not allowed in, then it seems to me all ingredients, not to set someone apart or to observe, but to have a medical director prepare a care authorisation. Those are all the elements that a prosecutor has to submit to a judge. Then you shouldn't be observing, you should be preparing. I'd say that's a much better hand to family members sitting with their hands in their hair. Yeah, I also have a lot of contact with family members who have their hands in their hair. What I often hear is: we knock at the ggz institution, but it is full or does not open; we knock on the door to the police to ask if anything is possible, but the police say that it is not possible whether she has lost him or her. I can see that this cooperation is not going well. Then, by definition, an observation measure is not necessary. That observation measure would be taken because you don't know what to do. People often know what to do, but what is needed, cannot or do not want to use others. I think it's gonna stop there. I'd say start with the care authorization or put in a crisis measure, but don't get someone off the street without care to look at him. That doesn't matter if three days is enough. I do think Mrs Bouwmeester has spoken wisely about this. The Minister has met me with the question of whether we can avoid, in future, missing voluntary care leading to a care authorisation or a crisis measure handed down by a judge. She says: I want the regions to learn directly from this, but I also want this to be part of a special thematic research by the Health Inspectorate. I think that's wise. I didn't get an answer to my question about medical confidentiality. In preparing the medical authorization, the medical director must provide all kinds of medical data to the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think this should be done when it serves the safety of someone. Then you can exchange medical records. However, if the doctor cannot guarantee that the medical data will not eventually be used against the patient and thus be used in the interests of treatment, then we will put someone in a difficult position in view of the Medical Treatment Agreement Act. The Minister didn't go into that. Is the position of the D.A.'s office complicated? Can the prosecution also use information obtained in the preparation of a care authorisation in a later, totally unrelated, criminal trial? And if that is not possible, how do we ensure that it is not? If that is not absolutely clear and clear, I believe that we would once again be creating a problem of medical professional secrecy, the exchange of information and the confidentiality between patients and doctors, who are already under pressure and complicated in mental health care. Mr President, thank you for the time I have been given. I think the law mandatory ggz is good for the position of the family and good for the position of patients. I very much hope that the legal protection laid down in the Law on compulsory ggz will eventually apply to those who are forced to receive care because of mental disability or dementia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u285	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister, both other directors and their support for the comprehensive answers. The Minister indicated that a law doesn't change the world. That's right. A law has to be implemented in particular, and in its implementation you can make a difference. I have kept in mind in this legal process that we could make a difference to individual people with this law. My feeling is that with this law, which focuses on treatment, an element for which there is very broad support in the Chamber, we have taken very large and valuable steps. Switching to forced care is an ultimate means; that is the starting point. People are supposed to come to treatment and we are going to get as many voluntary treatments as possible. I heard a lot of words in the Chamber about how important it is to be able to deal with care avoiders. How can we ensure that we get those caretakers into care sooner? We welcome the strengthening of the family's position, which can even overrule all kinds of agencies with a perseverance force. That's all profit. There will also be much more regional consultation, to which even patients have now been added. There have also been commitments to reach a 24/7 ggz. That will also be monitored. The VVD attaches great importance to this, because in this way we can keep an eye on which places in the Netherlands things are going well and in which places they are not. That will have to be addressed. Furthermore, there will be information about the pilots within the Public Prosecutor's Office. I think that's valuable information that we can use to see if what we've come up with actually works. So that's all profit. However, I have heard incredibly much today that we always want to work on the front and that we want to avoid escalation. What really concerns me is that today, in my view, the Minister has given a very clear explanation of the difference between the crisis measure and the observation measure. They could both be very important measures to achieve the goal that is being given to people who are asking for care. The crisis measure does not yet know whether there is a mental disorder, but there is a danger. In the observation measure, the suspicion of a mental disorder is already present, but we do not yet know whether there will be any danger. I sincerely believe that if we do not include that observation measure in this good law, we will fail. That's too bad, that could have been better. It's a good law, but he could have done better. It has therefore been a good thing that even here we have talked about the possibility of completing that observation measure with additional legal protection. The amendment tabled by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Van der Staaij raised this point. The cabinet has already indicated that it wants to accept that amendment. Those court-martials are therefore also included. Why are we failing ourselves and not making use of the opportunity that has now been created to provide this additional instrument? I would very much like a 24-hour ggz that works well. I'll keep that in mind. That is what we need to send, in cooperation with all the other parties. I think that's the challenge and the assignment, because that ggz really has to run. It would be incredibly unfortunate to have to say to the family members who are sending signals about this: sorry, but we could not give you this instrument. I really wouldn't want to see us look back after a while and say: we all knew it a little bit, but we didn't get to settle it eventually. That would be a breach of this good law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u286	Mr De Lange is very concerned and wonders how we can prevent this. That's right. He's sincere about that, and I think that's very good. I have good news for him. He was wondering what to say to the family members and he said: we all knew, but we weren't on time. The good news is that this is a solution: intensive care in the neighbourhood via FACT teams, for example. Until 2018, at the end of 2018 that's almost two years........................................................................................................................................................... It can be done sooner; we can ask the cabinet. Or does Mr De Lange accept that we are waiting for two years, but that we are building up the legal instruments at the back?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u287	Last week, in general consultation, I made it very clear that I think it is incredibly important to go through what we can already do. That is why I like the fact that last week we started to do so, and it is clear from the monitoring that it must be clear where it is now well arranged and where it is not. That is what I want to do very strongly, namely to ensure that it is sent to the places where it is not properly arranged. Mrs Bouwmeester therefore finds me on her side in the urgent appeal to the ggz. I believe that, in this sense, with the idea that instruments can be used, we have taken on a very great responsibility to get this right immediately. Mrs Bouwmeester finds me at her side to keep up the pressure from the Chamber permanently, so that we can simply deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u288	This is a very nice system answer: we are going to take care of it, we are going to keep the pressure together, instruments, municipalities, arrange, care. In 2018, October 2018 that's almost two years... everyone has to be ready. Of course we all want it now, but they get two more years. The chasing team and the switching team will need another two years to arrange final care. Then it has to be in order. What does Mr. De Lange say tomorrow when that family calls him? So he says, "We're gonna get the FACT teams in order right away and everyone's gonna do their job?" Or does he say it's a two-year procedure, but we passed a law yesterday, so if it's too late, can we arrest and lock up your son or daughter, even though I have no idea what the effect is, and even if I don't know if he or she's in trauma? Of course, that's a bit crooked, because you accept that until 2018 those FACT teams are out of order, in front, while you do take measures when it's too late, at the back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u289	That's a well-known statement: you're saying something. I like to choose my own words anyway. I absolutely do not accept that we are now waiting for that deadline to be reached in two years' time. I don't think that's the point for anyone. In fact, a shift team has been set up to set that movement in motion with perseverance and all that is needed. I also place the responsibility very clearly at the place where it belongs: within the municipalities and within the ggz. That's a continuous stand. It is now said that one also wants to sit in front and that one can handle it on the basis of those instruments that are now in place. Then I think, "Okay, then just go deliver." I fully agree with Mrs Bouwmeester that this must, of course, be done properly and properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u290	For a very short time!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u291	I can be very brief. If Mr De Lange is serious, what is he going to do in concrete terms to ensure that it is in order before the end of 2018? What's he delivering?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u292	What I deliver is an honest story. We should not pretend that we are dealing with things with magic wands here in the Lower House. What we are doing is very clearly monitoring from our system responsibility that things are going well. It's a call. In this respect, it is also a bit cynical that we should disappoint the mayors in the Netherlands tonight. But these mayors are now in the process of getting this done for an important part in all these municipalities. That's right. I hope they're still fully motivated for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u293	We may have to disappoint those mayors, but I'm also looking at all the responses we've had from carers, from clients, from the Human Rights College. Those are all people who have advised not to introduce that observation measure. What does Mr De Lange have to say to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u294	That after careful consideration, you look at both sides of the coin. There are all kinds of due diligence requirements. That is why I am also enthusiastic about the fact that additional legal guarantees have been provided for this observation measure. Then you serve both sides of the coin: the protection of the individual and the protection of society. I find this in balance in this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u295	Mr De Lange may find that in balance, but a majority of the House makes a different assessment. It has made that assessment as legitimate as Mr De Lange. Then I find such an interim rule that the mayors are disappointed, do not choose. Then he should also have mentioned who is happy with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u296	Those are your words. I still think it is important to choose my own words and just tell them where they stand. We have a category here that has asked very strongly for this instrument. And let's face it, they're not gonna get that instrument from a majority of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u297	The VVD was also present at the hearing. That's where we've heard scientists, client organisations and caregivers. There were a lot of people who said: that observation measure is a strange duck in the bite, it does not fit in the law, it is careless and it is not necessary. The only people who asked for it were three mayors present. Mr De Lange is now pretending that these mayors no longer have any means of doing anything for their citizens. And that last one is really bullshit. Mr De Lange has to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u298	Mrs Leijten's position is that this law would only consist of the observation measure. That's not true. If she has listened carefully to my contributions today, she has also heard that I have counted the blessings of the entire instruments that lie ahead. The only thing is that I truly believe that it would have been even more beautiful if we could have had the possibility of that observation measure in this law. That is an opinion based on many arguments. I say this not only on the basis of the remarks made by the mayors, but also on the basis of the opinion of the families that they would very much like to do so. But I also mention, for example, housing corporations and other civil society organisations. There's been a lot more. Of course, we can all be selective in mentioning sources, but a wider group has indicated that this could be an effective measure in the care of people in whom we suspect a mental disorder. We keep talking about people on the streets, but it's a lot of people dealing with a home situation. It would be incredibly good if we could help these people by giving them a boost and still getting them into care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u299	You can't get people into care by observing them for three days. You get people in care by applying for a care authorisation for them and thereby incorporating the information of the mayor, the housing corporation and the district team and delivering it to the district attorney. This requires a care authorisation to be prepared. That is the honest story that you must tell the family and the mayors, namely that this bill already makes all this possible. If you say that they are now empty-handed, you spell them something on the sleeve that is not true. This bill provides more room for a request to force someone to care, but with legal protection. I thought the VVD had a high priority in law enforcement. Apart from the fact that three days of observing someone and not caring for a minute is not a solution to care-avoiding behaviour, it is also contrary to the principles of law, namely that if you are deprived of freedom, this must go through the courts. I'm sorry the VVD just wants to throw this overboard. You shouldn't pretend to be saying now: you can never do anything with care avoidrs. It's possible. That's what this bill was written for and the observation measure was improper. It is a violation of the principles of law and also counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u300	I note that Mrs Leijten obviously needs to explain herself in an interruption. It is clear where the VVD stood and is in this debate. Legal protection is of the utmost importance. I think that the amendment before us has given an extra good start to this. Furthermore, it seems to me to be of the utmost importance in this consideration that we look at the individual interest, but certainly also at the security of society as a whole. That's what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u301	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the two Secretary of State for their reply. I would like to thank the Secretary of State of VWS in particular for his presence. He came of his own accord. I think that is a good addition to the debate. I have a question on something that is still unclear to me, I submit two motions and then I come to a conclusion. The question is unclear as to what the VWS Minister said. Do I understand correctly that there will be another execution test for the outpatient care at home? I thought I heard this, but I don't know for sure. I do think it is important, because the Minister himself has well argued what many steps still need to be taken to ensure clarity and good guarantees for the way in which mandatory care at home can be properly completed. The second point concerns the different costs of the legislative proposal. The Council of State has made the point that there is still uncertainty about it. Other bodies have indicated that they are still questioning it. The Minister has said very openly that the estimate of the cost of this bill is still very global and very rough. I think it is important to understand more quickly how the different costs have been incurred. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that proper implementation of the Law on compulsory mental health care will entail costs;]] [[having regard to the Council of State's finding that the costs are underestimated by the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas it is also not known what the costs are for:]] [[the regional consultations;]] [[the coordination role of the Office;]] [[the extension of the applicant's role for the Public Prosecutor;]] [[the Office's ICT system;]] [[municipalities;]] [[the Health Inspectorate;]] [[Invites the Government, by May 2017, to send a letter to both Chambers setting out in detail and justifying the costs incurred by the various authorities in order to implement this law carefully,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Bruins Slot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u302	A perceptive listener will wonder why the costs of the medical director have not been taken away. That is because these are actually the only costs that have been thoroughly investigated in two cost studies. I also request that both Chambers be informed. I expect this bill to be given a majority in this Chamber by the time the Minister has more information about it, which will also end up in the Upper Chamber. Another point is the answers given by the Secretary of State for Security and Justice to my question as to how the Public Prosecutor will now complete the new, changing task of the Public Prosecutor and the state's responsibility and cultural change there. I found it disappointing that the answers of the Secretary of State for Security and Justice were almost literal quotes from the note on the second further report, which dates back to 21 December last year. I had actually expected, in view of the further development of cases, that the Public Prosecutor and the State Secretary had moved forward in their thinking. Because I think it is important that there is more insight into how the Public Prosecutor will proceed and how the Public Prosecutor should be adapted to that, I submit the next motion. The aim of this motion is to define what steps should be taken in time and how we will ultimately gain insight into what capabilities and equipment will be used to implement it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Public Prosecutor will be given an active role of direction within the mandatory ggz;]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor is able to fulfil the new role within the mandatory ggz if a different method of operation is to be used than the current one under the BOPZ Act;]] [[Whereas the Public Prosecutor's Office should have more expertise, more FTEs, a relevant network and sufficient resources in connection with this new role;]] [[Whereas it is not yet sufficiently clear how this role is being implemented in practice and how the other role is being fulfilled;]] [[calls on the Government, before June 2017 for both Chambers, to identify how this new role will be realised in practice, what steps should be taken and what progress has been made before the mandatory ggz Act enters into force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins Slot and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u303	I'll come to a conclusion. The starting point is that compulsion must be avoided as much as possible, by providing good care in advance. The CDA also considers it important that alternatives to voluntary treatment are always examined first. Those first two steps are crucial. If, in the end, you end up with compulsory care, it must always be in the extreme and it must be as minimal as possible for the vulnerable person concerned. The Law on compulsory mental health care fits better than the BOPZ Act with the principles that the CDA considers important. Since these principles are better reflected in the proposal of the mandatory ggz Act, the CDA will therefore support that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u304	Mr. Chairman. I can very well endorse this last explanation: this law is indeed more in line with the principles which we in GroenLinks believe are important. So we too will support the law. However, I do have a number of questions relating to the answers given by the directors in the first term. Asked about the broadening of the disadvantage criterion "damage" versus "serious disadvantage"...................................................................................................................................................................................... I wonder whether professionals interpret this in practice. First of all, I thought: this response from the Minister has been taken care of, because the report is also part of the law. I wonder if that's not too simple, because professionals can expect them to know the law, but not that they've gone through the whole report of this debate, let alone that they've followed the whole debate. "Shame" is a term that professionals know, but the term "disadvantage" is new and therefore requires interpretation. I wonder how this will work out in practice. With regard to the commitment of municipalities, I would like to thank the Minister for giving the amendment on this subject the opinion of the Chamber. I think it would be wise to mention that commitment explicitly in the law. I understand the Minister's reasoning regarding the eight-week procedure for the authorisation of care. It points out that it is very important that participation is well organised and that the involvement of all parties is well regulated. Then it could take longer, just because of that care. I am pleased that the Minister indicated that it will be monitored in practice for how long this will take. Then the alignment between the Law on compulsory mental health care and the social domain. The Minister said that it will indeed be looked at and that the entry into force may have been phased out. I had a motion on this, but I understand that the stage of entry into force will come after agreements have been made within the chain and that there may indeed be a differentiated introduction on the basis of agreements made within the regional chain, so that there is a proper connection. As regards privacy, the Secretary of State said that data is only exchanged under the law. How does this relate to the obligation of confidentiality? I can agree with what Mrs Leijten said on this point. Finally, I have a trial point. This is a rather complex bill and quite a few amendments have been tabled on it. I would like to ask whether it is possible to vote on the amendments not next Tuesday, but on 14 February, i.e. the Tuesday following. Then we can take a very close look at what is lying there. I really want to handle it carefully. Hence my request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr. Chairman. I was just reminded that we have been debating this important issue for about eight hours. That indicates how much it lives and how important everyone in this Chamber, in the room and outside it is that we ensure that we can give better care to people who are sometimes out of control over their own thoughts, their own actions and their own actions, so that we can keep them in this society. Society should be inclusive and there should be a place for everyone. That's why we're talking today about the mandatory ggz Act, which is a treatment law. It must be put to maximum use in the case where everything that could have been done has been done. The question then is how we can use this law as a final act. We focus on treating and first look at what your question is. We're gonna answer that instead of you going to an institution where we're gonna lock you up, like under the old law. I would like to thank all three directors for their reply and especially the Secretary of State for Security in Justice, who is here for the first time in his new role in this law. We have raised a number of points. The first is the early warning. I would like to thank the Minister once again for the commitment on the contact point for municipalities, namely that we need to look at what is already there and where you can join. My question is how it is guaranteed that follow-up will take place when it is reported, because that is, of course, a rather crucial second step. A second important point to ensure that we give people the care they need as soon as possible is the closing approach through FACT teams. I told you, ten years ago, there were almost no FACT teams. There are now 400, but they are not all at full strength. Then I'll mention the year 2018, October 2018. Until October 2018, i.e. in almost two years' time, municipalities will be given the time of first hunt team and now the switching team to ensure that they have the final approach in order. Can't do it any faster, I'm asking the Minister. I know it's in order in regions. However, as long as that team is needed, it is not yet in order and we accept that we are going to wait another two years until that final approach is in order everywhere. On the one hand, we are talking about how better to give the very best help to people who need it and I hear a fervent plea from the Minister about the observation rule, to hear on the other hand that we must apparently accept that municipalities will have two years to get that final approach in order. That's not right. I'm asking the Minister how to do that sooner. The Minister has agreed: we are going to monitor how this is going to be done and there will be measurable agreements with the field. That is a very important commitment, because until now it has actually been non-binding: less in the institution, more outpatient care at home. But is it gonna work? The Trimbos Institute says it's not going well at all. Now we're gonna measure that. So that's important. I thank the Minister for that. We support the motion by the SP on the follow-up to the opinions of the Hoekstra Committee. I have a number of outstanding questions that have not been answered in the cabinet's term. The first is about the declaration of self-binding. This concerns people who have a question of their own and can then draw up a whole plan. This is particularly true of people who are everywhere expressing their concerns. They therefore need very welcoming care, for example an institution that is open to them or police who thinks: hey, here I have to watch and act. The police must be equipped for that, too. Is that statement still there? Can people still use that? Can you always do that? So is it no longer possible for people to cry out for help everywhere but simply not get help? Will the Minister answer that? I also asked questions about the role of health insurers. What shows that there is sufficient buying-in in the outpatient care in the neighborhoods? I'll just mention the FACT teams one more time. Those are the very specialized people who come to care very much and very intensively, take a step back when someone can do it themselves, keep an eye out and step forward again if necessary. In short: for these people this is one of the most important buttons you can turn on if you want people to have the care that suits them in time. The police gave the warning: aftercare is precaution. If we want people who come from a compulsion situation to be able to do so at home but also in an institution not to fall back into trouble for themselves, nuisance or crime, then a number of conditions must be met. This concerns, among other things, housing, daily spending and care. The health insurance companies said that all these people have no daily spending. So the whole house of cards falls apart. The health insurance companies were very concerned about this. Well, if the health insurance companies do that so openly, there's really something going on. So the question to the Minister is: who is steering on this point and who is being approached? Imagine a case coming up, like us, the minister gets a lot of cases in which someone says: my child just needs daily spending. Being alone for a whole day without daily spending is far too complicated for people with mental problems. Then where can they report in? Then how can we get them to spend the day? I explicitly do not ask for a system answer, "it is this application form with the municipality," but quite specifically: who picks up such a case as a whole? If we send all these people one by one via the system of counters to counters, we know they are not arriving. I would therefore like to receive a more detailed explanation from the Minister on this point. The Minister made a very good commitment: the representation of patients, clients and experience experts will be added to the regional consultation. In this way one keeps looking through the eyes of the patients at all times: do we do the right thing with all of us, do we not fall into system discussions but look at concrete, hands-on what happens? So thank you very much for that. This also shows that the Minister is looking very practically at how things can and should be done better. I've come to the observation measure. We are aware of the importance of society, but we actually have much more regard for the individual interest. What does it do to an individual when he's locked up? How proportional is it if, as I have just said, the precautionary measures, the FACT teams, the final approach in the neighbourhood of the city are not in order but there is a heavy measure at the back of the law? We do that here and now, but at the same time we accept that the hunting teams will have two more years to get the precaution in order. I had also asked the Minister what imprisonment means for a person concerned. Such a person is taken off the street for three days, is locked up, is not allowed to leave and gets no care. Maybe someone like that has ideas about people coming to get him, and then they do. We hear from patients that this is very, very traumatic. We cannot imagine how intense that is. The follow-up question is: 'The Minister has just not answered 'what the effect is after three days'. How much can you do after three days of observation? You took them off the streets for three days, but if that were the only purpose, it would be a nuisance control measure, and it wouldn't be. I also believe that this is not the intention of the rulers. If it's fairly likely that you won't get much further by three days, you haven't arranged it properly on the front, the legal protection is not arranged and you don't really know what comes out of it at the back. Then it looks like a measure of "if not then it does not harm"; hop, another legal instrument in the tool kit. But it hurts. It hurts a lot. It's traumatic to get locked up and not be in charge of where you're going and what you're doing. That is why I ask the Minister once again: Minister, would you please answer these questions? I ask that because we know from practice that the earlier observation permission, albeit in another construction, was almost not used, because the field says that there are other and better methods. One of them, I say for the last time, is the FACT team: rather, intensive, close, 24/7 care in the neighborhood. Then people don't fall out, then we keep them there and then we don't have to reach the moment that they don't open the door anymore. In my view, that is the ultimate goal that not only the Labour Party is committed to, but I think everyone is committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u306	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u307	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u308	Thank you. I see Mrs. Klever is gone. Mr Van der Staaij has signed out. I am now looking at Mrs Dijkstra, who will speak as the last speaker on the side of the Chamber in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u309	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the rulers for their answers. I have to say, they weren't all equally clear. That is why I shall repeat a few of them. I'll start asking questions right away. I notice that we all tend to repeat what we said in the first term in the second term. I confine myself to questions that have not yet been answered. For me, at least, the following question stands. I asked the Minister what the safeguards are to prevent abuse of an anonymous report. Anyone can report to the college of B and W and that can also be anonymous. I asked: where can I find the safeguards against abuse? How can the distinction be made? I have also asked the Minister, I admit, it was the very last question, and I said myself that it was not one of the big questions or it would not be nice if the Minister of the United States of America was the first signatory. After all, it is a health bill. I would also like to emphasise once again how important it is to monitor very closely the impact on the field, organisations and stakeholders, and whether harmonisation is working properly. That commitment has been made. I come to the role of the district attorney. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, that role should remain a procedural role. I understand now that the officer can ask for a second opinion. As far as I am concerned, I have just exchanged this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the first place. The minister says that the prosecutor has the direction, which must gather and consult everywhere and bring that to the attention of the judge. But the officer may also decide not to transfer certain information to the judge. I would like to know a little more about this from the Minister. It's also why my name is under the CDA's motion to clarify the role of the district attorney. I talked about the plan of action. The Minister said to me: the plan of action cannot be subject to conditions, because the judge determines that. But would it not be appropriate to lay down a number of basic principles to which such a plan of approach should at least comply? How does the Minister feel about that? Shouldn't the medical director's assessment of the substance of care lie with him? He can find a plan of action right or wrong, while the judge has no insight into the health aspects of it. I shall table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are currently no clear conditions to be met by a plan of action if the patient wishes to develop this together with his or her relatives in order to avoid mandatory care;]] [[considers that the absence of clear conditions may encourage arbitrariness;]] [[believes that it is important for patients, together with their relatives, to know clearly which conditions a plan of approach should meet;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the conditions are known before the law enters into force, and once the conditions to be met by the plan of action have been completed, to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u310	We also discussed the interpretation fee. I'd like to double-check with the Secretary of State if I understood her correctly. She said: if there is deprivation of liberty, you will get an interpretation fee, because then you will also get a lawyer; that is settled. I am concerned, however, that this interpretation fee should be made available regardless of the form of compulsory care. It is, of course, a question of understanding and communicating with each other in that preliminary journey as well. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the interpretation fee is only offered within the Mental Health Services Act if there is deprivation of liberty;]] [[considers that it is necessary that the possibility of an interpreter's allowance is available regardless of the form of compulsory care, and is therefore also desirable during (the application for) care authorisation;]] [[calls on the Government to make available the interpretation fee throughout the procedure provided for in the Law on compulsory mental health care in order to promote communication between professionals and stakeholders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u311	I also asked the Minister to monitor specifically how the experience and experience of patients develops after the introduction of the Law on compulsory mental health care. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is desirable to monitor specifically how the experience and experience of patients develops when implementing the Law on compulsory mental health care (and the Law on care and compulsion);]] [[calls on the Government to monitor how the costs, efforts and experiences of patients develop after the law has been introduced, and to inform the Court twice a year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u312	Finally, I am tabling a motion on the implementation time. I have asked the Minister to take into account what is needed on the ground, also in view of the fact that the nationwide coverage ICT system, which is still under development, will have to be ready. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is very important that the field is ready for the implementation of complex laws such as the Law on compulsory mental health care;]] [[Whereas it is very important that there is a national information system to ensure the smooth implementation of the law;]] [[considers that the Minister considers that a different implementation time than the field itself is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to apply the minimum implementation time of 18 months which the field considers necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u313	Finally, I remind the Secretary of State for Security and Justice of his promise to return to the nationwide ICT system in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u314	Mrs Bouwmeester asked if she could table another motion. Well, let's do it anyway. I'm sure it's a brief, concise motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u315	Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the coulance. I got distracted by you at the end of the day, and that's why I walked away. I'll keep it short but powerful. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the crisis measure can be used as an ultimate remedium in the event of an imminent serious disadvantage;]] [[Whereas the open standard is sometimes interpreted "immediately" by the parties too restrictive;]] [[Whereas case law shows that decisions on detention are determined on a case-by-case basis in the event of imminent danger;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the field to fill in the open standard "immediately" by means of a directive, so as to clarify the scope of this criterion and when the Ibs, soon to be a crisis measure, can be deployed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Bouwmeester, Pia Dijkstra, Leijten and Voortman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32399-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u316	I can also say that, contrary to all the reports that go around, the mayors are very happy when this motion is adopted. They know better when to use the measure and can then use it more widely at the right time. We're gonna make mayors happy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u317	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The rulers need a few minutes' suspension, because they do not yet have all the motions at their disposal. It might be useful to have one. Perhaps the rulers could also respond to Mrs Voortman's request. It is a very complex piece of legislation with amendments and quite a few motions in the meantime. The question is whether the Chamber can vote later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u318	In the end, that's what the Chamber itself is about, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u319	That's right, it's up to us. The only question is whether we are getting in your way with that. I get the impression that this is not the case. If you want to say anything about it or cause any problems, we will hear it. It's complex; let's agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u320	Mr. Chairman. I'm trying to do it in the right order as best I can, but if I'm very tight on my head, we'll see. I thank the Chamber for its input and I also thank the Chamber for its very broad support for this law. This law is a treatment law instead of a detention law and I think there are incredibly many improvements for the patient, the legal status of the patient and for the family. As far as we are concerned, the vote will not be one week, but we would appreciate it if it could be taken before the elections, so that it can at least take place. With regard to an important subject of discussion, the observation measure and the crisis measure, a number of questions have been asked. They're urgent measures, they're acute, and that's why you don't have a court judgment in advance. Mrs Bruins Slot's amendment is an important improvement which gives a judicial judgment as soon as possible after the observation measures have been adopted. It also sets out how the measure should be assessed as an urgent measure. A care authorisation is not an alternative, because it takes too long. The crisis measure concerns people in whom a mental disorder is plausible. So that's not certain, but the danger is. With regard to the observation measure, that is exactly the other way around. In my view, this is incredibly important, not only for social protection, but also for the patient himself. Of course, it's not about randomly locking up the patient or locking up the patient for three days. Of course, it's about observing someone who doesn't allow anyone else in their own world, who does completely avoid care and to whom no one, family or traders, has access, but from whom you have a serious suspicion that the case is escalating behind that front door. That doesn't have to take three days at all. Firstly, it is a care setting, and secondly, you may decide after three hours that it has been a good measure and that you need to start treatment. Those days are not only meant to diagnose, but are also meant to get information from someone who picks you up from the street, for example. You do not know enough about the situation or the family, and unfortunately we also have examples of such cases where things have gone wrong. During the time of observation, you can collect information from the social services, the police, the traders and the family. That deadline has been set. Mrs Bouwmeester said that we have had such a measure before. Yeah, that measure's been used about 80 times over the last two years. In that 80 times you saw that it did provide for a need, so I find it incredibly regrettable that there is insufficient support for that measure in the Chamber. I find this extremely regrettable, first and foremost, for the patients themselves. I would like to have the IGZ do a thematic study which will be completed at the same time as the evaluation two years after its entry into force. The question of medical confidentiality is a matter for the Secretary of State. Then the outpatient care at home. Mrs. Bruins Slot said there's going to be an execution test. There will be an AMvB which determines which care cannot be provided at home and there will be an execution test. That execution test shall be carried out by the inspection. He's doing a monitoring and enforcement test. The Council of State advises and all field parties and colleges, such as the Human Rights College, the Personal Data Authority and the police, are consulted. The question is whether we can make a rough estimate of the costs. I have seen an answer to the question as to whether we could do so, but I have lost it. Sorry, it's late, so you're not really waiting for me to find it right now. I would ask the officials to reply again to the question whether we can write a letter by mid-May in which we probably do not have the exact costs, but more than we have done so far, estimates and indicate what the advantages and disadvantages are. The motion in part No. That's what 65 goes for. So that's where I saw the answer. It says here I can't do that, but I can do it before the summer. So Mrs. Bruins Slot should make it "before the summer." The pilots of the Public Prosecutor's Office provide information on the costs before the summer. That is why I am considering turning it into "before the summer."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u321	Summer at VWS always runs until October.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u322	No, that's for the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u323	Fine. Shall I turn it into "end of July"? For the summer recess. Oh, yes, indeed, Mrs. Voortman. For the summer recess. I think that's excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u324	That's a neat formulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u325	Then I shall leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 65 to the Chamber. Mrs Voortman says that we have 'disadvantage' rather than 'danger' and that this may be the same as 'danger', as we have seen with each other, but she asks what that criterion means in practice'serious disadvantage'. There is a chain programme Law mandatory ggz that is not only about information exchange, but is also implementation wide. This also raises the question of how to work with this new legislative proposal, including the application of the new criterion. I come to the entry into force after chain agreements have been made. It is true that we prefer it at once, but if we cannot, we simply fall back on differentiated introduction. Mrs Bouwmeester said about early warning that follow-up is important after a report. She asked how we know you're okay. Of course, we have the inspection that monitors and checks that it does happen properly. The closing approach of FACT teams would have been realised in October, but it has been asked whether this can't be done faster. I indicated earlier in the debate that the switching team will be disbanded in October 2018, but that we will not sit around and wait until 2018 before things happen. Things are happening already. They also need to be done as soon as possible. No one has to wait for anything, even more so, the chasing team is gonna be behind everyone's pants where it doesn't happen. In any case, the switching team will stop in October 2018. From September onwards, we are going to show how far each region is. Then the whole of the Netherlands can see that one region is completely finished, while in the other region far too little has happened. That also has an exciting effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u326	Thank you for the explanation, Minister. The fact that the switching team is still there until October 2018, so for almost two years, indicates that they are expected to work until 2018, otherwise they will be there a year earlier. The question is until when the Minister finds it acceptable that this final approach, for very confused people, about whom she has made a warm plea today, should be delayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u327	I would have liked to have it settled yesterday, but if I say here 'and now it is settled', I do not have the illusion that it is. And why not? With many things we have to deal with, the point isn't that there is no law or that it can't be done, but those things are culture. The question then is: how do we get people to work together? How do we ensure that people do not work side by side with each other and that everything connects? There's a really big tilt point. That's something you need to do. That is why we did not say: we are making a package of rules and then we have done our thing. What we are doing now is much more difficult. We say: we commit ourselves to practice and we also want to see that it actually happens in practice. I have completed this on all sides, with monitoring and a request to all parties to set themselves an objective, to establish it on 14 February and to let us know, with a switching team, a whole programme and a new law. Everything is aimed at getting this done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u328	The question is how long the Minister will find it acceptable that a final approach for people with mental illness is simply not in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u329	I want that final approach to be there now, but there isn't one. We have never asked the regions in a specific way before, as we are doing now. The team of confused people led by Mrs Spies has described exactly what needs to be done and what building blocks should be there. According to that model, there's work to be done. We also ask regions which may think that they are doing very well for each other to do extra things to have everything closed up on schedule. I think this should be done as soon as possible. We hoped to do it within a year, but that proved completely impossible, as all the field parties told us. We have now said: as soon as possible, but we are going to monitor it and make it visible, so that every region can look at itself, because they are not doing it for me, but for their own inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u330	Mrs. Bouwmeester, really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u331	Short and closing. Then, unfortunately, we can conclude that for the time being the front, the final approach, is not in order, but that the Minister does plead for additional legal measures at the back, if it is too late.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u332	It's en-and. I have to say, unfortunately, I've seen many times what could go wrong if you can't find out about that front door. Unfortunately, I had to see for myself that no one could do anything until the house went on fire. Then there was calamity and escalation. Then we could do something, namely a crisis measure, and not before that. That's a hole that stays, if we don't put that observation scheme in. Mr. Chairman. Is there a declaration of self-binding and is it taken into account? Yes, but there are limitations to that, as I said in the first term, in response to Mrs Leijten. Another question concerned the role of insurers and who directs on day-to-day spending. Insurers have to take care of the care, because they have a duty of care, and day-to-day spending is once again the responsibility of the municipalities. That is why we need to establish good cooperation so that the general practitioner, the ggz care providers and the district teams work together in the neighbourhood. Then it is also very important that we involve ggz experts in or on that district team. That is also part of the approach of the switching team. How can we distinguish between anonymous reports? Anyone can report to the municipality, but the municipality will of course investigate whether it is a real report, whether something is really going on. The municipality will of course ask the social district team if they know exactly what is going on. Whether a follow-up is given to a notification will be linked back to a limited group. This includes, for example, the family or people who are very close to the person concerned, such as a partner or a trusted person. Whether something has actually been done with this, however, is not returned to any detector. The investigation of the municipality in which it examines whether there is a real reason to do something is, of course, very important. That's where those things get cleaned up. They also asked why the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport is not the first signatory. I gotta tell you, I didn't even know that. I never look at it. When I have to sign something with a colleague, I always say: it's fine if you want to, but if you don't want to, it's fine. However, I am the first signatory of this law. I didn't know that either, but, Secretary of State, I seem to be. I shall then turn to the Dijkstra motion on part No. 67 on the plan of action and the basic principles to be met. The field can set up a handout. That's the way we always do things like this. We ask the field what they think should happen. Mrs Dijkstra asks the government to ensure that the conditions are known before the law enters into force. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion by Mrs Dijkstra and Mrs Voortman on item No. 68 on interpretation fees is policy support. You're already getting an interpreter before it's established what care you're gonna get. This motion is therefore superfluous and I therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u333	I told you to do the double check. That is why, in order to be sure, I have the motion in part No. 68 submitted. If the minister says you're getting that interpreter in the lead, I'm withdrawing the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u334	Since the Pia Dijkstra/Voortman motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u335	In the Dijkstra motion in part No. 69 the government is invited to monitor how the costs, efforts and experiences of patients develop after the law has been introduced and to inform the Chamber twice a year. I really think that's a lot. I'd say at least an annual monitor. You could also do it in the biennial evaluation, but what is now in the motion, I find really too busy. I'd like to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u336	Then I change "half-yearly" to "annual."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u337	Then I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u338	The motion for a resolution by Mr Pia Dijkstra (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that it is desirable to monitor specifically how the experience and experience of patients develops when implementing the Law on compulsory mental health care (and the Law on care and compulsion);]] [[calls on the Government to monitor how the costs, efforts and experiences of patients develop after the law has been introduced, and to inform the Court annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 69 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u339	In Mrs Dijkstra's motion on item No. 70 the government is invited to use the minimum implementation time of 18 months which the field considers necessary. This is a motion I'd like to dissuade. We're already preparing. I've already indicated what we're doing. The law offers the possibility of a phased introduction. I talked to Mrs Voortman about that. The things that are really necessary and where it was even the question of whether we should introduce emergency legislation for that purpose, I would like to introduce them as soon as possible. However, there may be elements that we need to introduce in stages. We'll see about that in due course. Of course we will do so carefully and the Chamber will be informed. The motion in part No. 70, however, I really do not want to advise. In the motion in part No. 71 by Mrs Bouwman c.s. the government is invited to ask the field to fill in the open standard "immediately" by means of a directive in order to clarify it. I already promised. However, if Mrs Bouwman likes to record that in a motion, I do not think that is a problem and then I leave the judgment on that motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u340	Mr. Chairman. There were still questions about the exact coherence over time, given the AMvB, which identifies those responsible for care. It might be good to indicate that the front for this AMvB is provided for 2018. I did say that in the first period. The entry into force of the law is foreseen for mid-2018. As I have previously shared with the Chamber, this means that a careful discussion in the House of Representatives is possible by the AMvB. So before the law enters into force, we can agree on the AMvB in which the caretakers are appointed. I said this in response to Mrs Leijten's questions on this point. A short response to Mrs Leijten's motion on item No. 63 on legal protection. Maybe she appreciates this in a different way, but the Health and Force Act, of course, regulates legal protection by laying down the step-by-step plan. That is also a form of legal protection. We may think differently about that, but this is just settled. However, I also said that we should not wait for the evaluation, but that we should gradually look at the experience to know what is going on. However, the motion states that harmonisation should only lead to more legal protection, not less. Mrs Leijten says that she already knows which way this legal protection is going. I'd think that was too soon. I am prepared not to wait for the evaluation, so to turn the experiences of both laws against each other and not to wait for the official evaluation. This motion, which tells me in advance which way it goes, goes a little too far. For that reason, I would like to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u341	Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with Mrs Dijkstra's question on the planning of ICT systems, to which she still had an answer. If we really want to start with this, of course it is the intention that we can. ICTs will need to be introduced in stages, because with this complexity, there is a risk that they will be introduced at once. When the law enters into force, the parties will thus be able to properly exchange information for implementation. The VWS Minister has already said that if crucial elements are not yet in order, there may be a need to move. I think we can agree that this exchange of information is a crucial element, and that it is therefore included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u342	This was a question from Mrs Dijkstra, but I find this explanation by the Secretary of State rather vague. When we started working on new systems for inspection, the VWS Minister sent a plan of approach to the Chamber for its implementation, with the phases it would enter and the funding that is about to be attached to it. Perhaps it is good to do so in this case too, so the Secretary of State is trying to give us such insight for the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u343	This seems to me to have some connection to your motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u344	Indeed, my motion is partly about that, so you can include this in your response to my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u345	I'll take that right away. I want to make a commitment to this. I propose that we align the time limit with that of the motion in part No. 65 just now: before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u346	I would like to respond equally to both directors. I shall therefore table an amended motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u347	Formally, then, we say that the verdict on that motion is up to the Chamber. There were still questions about the added value of the role of the Public Prosecutor and about when we would be satisfied. I'm not going to hang a percentage on that right now, because I think you should assess this qualitatively. That's why we have the pilots. As has just been discussed, we will inform the Chamber before the summer of its outcome, giving a weighting of when we can be satisfied and indicating in what cases it would be logical and non-insurable that there is no officer present at the hearing. Mrs Leijten also asked questions about medical professional secrecy and the exchange of information. In the cases described in the Wvggz, medical data to be provided to the Public Prosecutor's Office is subject to a legal obligation that breaks medical professional secrecy. If a psychiatrist is required to provide a medical certificate to the Public Prosecutor on request on the basis of what is in the Wvggz, he does not violate his professional secrecy. Then there is an interesting question, which the Chamber has also asked. The D.A. then has information for the purpose of an authorisation at once, while it may also be able to see that person later in the event of a violation of the law. Those roles are separate, so the systems have to be set up to keep those data separate. This is one of the reasons why it is not yet definitive that the D.A. is now explicitly examining the possibility to appoint and deploy special Wvggz officers, who then focus on those procedures, so that they do not have any part of that knowledge in person. In this way you can ensure that the medical information that is necessarily sent to the D.A. in the context of the Wvggz is not improperly used for detection and prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u348	This answer may be reassuring, but I would like a slightly stronger commitment from the Secretary of State. He said that we need to make sure that the ICT systems are set up, but I understand that the ICT system is already being built. Is this how the ICT system is designed, or is that a wish for the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u349	They are now working with the chain partners to see how to set this up, including ICT-technically. Earlier in the debate, I said that it was not possible to say this definitively at this time, Mrs Bruins Slot asked whether the costs would then exceed the BIT standard. This aspect must also be taken into account. We need to look at exactly how this is designed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u350	So, after this debate, the Secretary of State is going to ensure that this in the system to be built becomes an absolute safe door, so that the personal information that becomes available for the care authorisation can never and never be put into a future criminal case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u351	That's the purpose of the system. We have agreed a letter on the basis of the motion. In this I can better inform the Chamber, if you continue with the discussions on the demands you have to make on the system and how this objective will be achieved, so that information on behalf of the Wvggz does not cross-over with the detection and prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u352	So this is what the Secretary of State comes back to in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u353	Yes. I come to the question and motion on the implementation of the Hoekstra Committee's recommendations. I understand the idea and I can also embrace it, but we also immediately saw that Mrs Bouwmeester, for example, once again had a concrete idea. Here's what I'd like to propose. On 9 February there was a general consultation with the Minister for Security and Justice on the recommendations of the Hoekstra Commission and the follow-up. Perhaps that would be a good time for the Chamber to exchange with the Minister exactly which elements are desirable in the monitoring. I can say at this point that I will leave the motion to the House's judgement, but that is perhaps to be completed on 9 February, because in this way there can be different expectations of how you monitor and report on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u354	If the Secretary of State says here that he embraces the idea of not letting go of the recommendations, I think that is already a very important commitment. On the contrary, I have formulated it very openly to examine all the possibilities, but to maintain the principle that the important recommendations of that important committee do not lapse. So I would like to leave it to the Security and Justice Committee or the Secretary of State to make a proposal, but the principle that these recommendations do not disappear is standing. In my view, we can simply vote on the motion and give the signal to our fellow spokesmen of Security and Justice to build on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u355	Yes. That's fine. If the House really decides not to hold that vote on Tuesday but on the following week, then the AO has also taken place. Then it can complement each other nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-02-tweedekamer-10.u356	That brings us to the end of the debate on the legislative proposal. Let me look around to see if Mrs Voortman's wish to vote on 14 February is widely supported. I note that a broad majority supports that wish. The vote will therefore take place on 14 February. I would like to thank colleagues and the rulers.
