ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u1	I welcome the Minister for Security and Justice and I am the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg. I would ask the people who are in the back of the room to leave or to be quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u2	Mr. Chairman. You'll have to do something about your authority. They are already going, even though they should actually listen very carefully to the debate on the law that we are discussing today, because it is a very important law. I will immediately follow the tradition that we have agreed to. If we deal with an important law, the first speaker will first say something about the law. Mrs Helder always does this very nicely and I think we should follow her example. What we are talking about in the present law is that the position of close relatives of persons who have been seriously injured or even died at the hands of another person is strengthened. Those close to us are a very small circle of people. In future, these persons will not be able to claim compensation for their material damage, i.e. moved or their intangible damage, which we call "fire damage" because they are in a great deal of pain because someone who is very dear to them has died or is very badly injured. That is the law that we are discussing today, if I try to explain it in plain Dutch. In order to get to the bottom of the law: we must be aware that we have made a serious attempt to achieve such an arrangement, but that this proposal raised more questions than answers in the First Chamber, and some even encountered fundamental objections. So we have a complicated law, to try to do something for victims and relatives, but we also know that there are a number of complex aspects to this. We are now also a number of years further than when we dealt with this law earlier. We are a number of years ahead and we see very clearly that the social support for a scheme as it stands today has grown. That's also apparent from research. I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment he has made in the cabinet to a proper investigation. This shows that some financial redress is considered really appropriate at the moment. Even attempts have been made to use the European Convention on Human Rights to strengthen that argument. We see in our society that people really think that financial satisfaction is appropriate when you are in a great deal of grief and pain, including the suffering of your neighbor. We have also seen that the debate has actually been revived by the debate on the Amsterdam vice case, a very shocking matter. We see that it was not really understood that parents of abused children were not regarded as a kind of victim in our law, but that they were merely on the sidelines. Of course the children were the victims, but we have seen that there was still no understanding that these parents could not claim their damage on the perpetrator. We can see that the boundaries have become more crystallized by now. Of course, we do not want American situations in the Netherlands, and I understand that very well, where in criminal proceedings it is almost more about compensation than about suffering and the execution of the perpetrator. That is what we have been discussing since the last time. Can you also look at the circle of people who could eventually get compensation? That must be the immediate neighbors, but how wide is that group? That is what this law is about: not American states, but to see if we can find a way to serve the next of kin. I think that with the proposal before us, a sensible middle ground has been found in order to settle it in the end. Let it be said that the idea of the CDA Group is not so much that you can alleviate enormous suffering with financial compensation. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, that is not really the essence of the law. Because money can never seriously serve as a relief from suffering. The CDA attaches particular importance to the recognition of the error by the person who made the mistake. This recognition of suffering means that we are in favour of financial compensation. That is particularly true because the compensation of a perpetrator, a causer, requires a sacrifice. So we do not think that compensation can alleviate the suffering. It is above all the sacrifice that we value. The prison sentence imposed on a person who has actually done something covered by criminal law serves, of course, especially those who are subject to this punishment. That is his pain, rightly so, but something must also be done towards the victim. We have been working for a long time to strengthen the position of victims. I refer, for example, to the right to speak, but it is appropriate to consider whether there is a way in which this satisfaction can take a little more form by sacrificing something for the benefit of a victim. I think this is very good. That is also what came out of the research of the Vrije Universiteit: that can help them to redesign life. People have sometimes suffered enormous damage and can be helped somewhat to redesign life. I know a very poignant case and I know that the parents will be watching and listening in today. A child has been severely abused. The parents finally decided to move because the house in which it had taken place was no longer a safe place. The parents' bedroom was no longer a safe place for their child. The child was severely traumatized. That's moved damage, and then you ask yourself what you can do with it. In the end, these are the examples we are thinking of in this law. At the same time, this is a complex issue and we really need to take a closer look at it. In the note following the report, the Minister, at the request of the CDA Group, addressed the Amsterdam vice case at the time. At our request, he explains what the meaning of this law might be in such a complex matter. The Minister explains the parent of a seriously abused child now also a compensation of affection damage and of a displaced damage could claim. I've been talking about that last one for a while. The Minister further explains when exactly a victim with severe and permanent injuries will be involved. He's actually talking about a switch in a neighbor's life. You can imagine anything, but at the same time we see that there is talk of a 70% disability in a victim. Especially in these complex cases, where sexual abuse of children is involved, that is a very difficult one. Children are often very resistant; fortunately. Unfortunately, you don't see the damage until much later, while parents immediately see that something has to happen. So the question to the Minister is how this law can really become meaningful in terms of affection damage in serious sex cases. The CDA welcomes the fact that this law is really an answer to this, not only with regard to the damage that has been moved, but also with regard to the affection damage. I would like to know from the Minister whether he recognizes this and whether this is a good answer. Will this ultimately give parents the opportunity to get compensation for this damage? I would like some clarification on that. The explanatory memorandum explicitly states that affection damage must also be able to be paid in such cases. At the same time, I see that there is talk of 70% job loss. How does that fit in with this kind of thing? I would like to hear an explanation from the Minister. The second point we need to discuss with the CDA Group is the fact that this is a compensation scheme within criminal law. That is something the CDA Group absolutely embraces. This reduces the burden on the next of kin and the next of kin who would otherwise have to make a corridor to the civil court. Such an extra course is, in fact, only an increase in suffering. However, we have to recognise that affection damage is due to the fact that the next of kin must be able to prove the serious and permanent injury of the victim or the death. In the event of death, of course, it will be possible, but it is very complicated to show serious injury, in such a way that a criminal will take that into account. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that it will become complicated to describe this well and to make it clear. I believe that our criminal courts will have to be trained or trained. There must be sufficient room and attention for this, otherwise the situation will arise that victims will get zero due to the fact that the criminal court finds such a case too complicated and that the matter will be passed on to the civil courts. I come to the conclusion of my contribution to this important law. It has been quite a struggle to come up with a proposal to compensate for affection damage and damage that is likely to be borne by everyone. An earlier attempt to do so has been stranded, but in the meantime thorough research has been carried out. Unfortunately, horrible things have intensified the social debate. Countless people have looked into this. We have received a huge stack of letters from people who wanted to contribute to this debate. I think that what is now before us is, in the end, solid enough and has sufficient support to be adopted. It hasn't become a payoff. It's not American stuff. It is, however, a proposal to give some satisfaction to a limited circle of relatives and victims in the financial sense. That is why this bill can count on our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u3	Mr. Chairman. With this legislative proposal, we are indeed improving the position of the relatives of persons suffering serious injury or death by another person. Like most other European countries, the Netherlands now has a legal regime for the compensation of affection damage. This is indeed a form of pain money for the disadvantage or suffering that one experiences when one loved one is seriously injured or dies and another is liable for it. It has been investigated: according to relatives and relatives, a judicial compensation of affection damage will contribute to their processing of the emotional consequences of that event. It feels like a recognition by the Dutch legal system of their suffering. In that sense, the compensation proposed is more a means than an objective. This has been discussed and discussed for a long time, as Mr Van Toorenburg has already said. An earlier bill on this subject was already adopted in the Lower House in 2005, but it died in the Upper House, among other things by CDA and VVD votes against. In my view, this was not because of the principle that there should be a compensation for affection damage, but because of its effect. Although I still have some important questions about this bill, which I come up with, the SP wishes us to do so now, so that we will establish a mechanism for the compensation of affection damage. In addition to persons suffering serious injury or even death, this needs to be done. So once again I express the hope and wish that we can do this; and not only in the Lower House, but later in the Upper Chamber. Because lengthy and painful discussions on the intensity of suffering must be avoided, fixed amounts are proposed, the Minister says. On page 16 of the explanatory statement we see a table of amounts: for example, in the case of serious and permanent injuries, a close friend receives €12,500; if a partner or child dies as a result of a crime, this could amount to €20,000. Such a table of amounts has something really uncomfortable, because it is about suffering that is impossible to express in money. And yet we have to do that with a bill like this. It is precisely when we want to avoid unpleasant discussions, where one suffering must be compared with another, with lengthy legal proceedings resulting, and especially when we bear in mind that this kind of compensation for relatives feels like recognition of suffering and we do not pretend that this kind of compensation will remove suffering, that I can understand the starting point of these lump sums and this order of magnitude. So even if I say this again, I think it has something uncomfortable, it has my understanding. However, we cannot stress enough that this kind of money will not remove the suffering that has been caused. In any case, higher compensation would not be possible. Of course, people's lives and permanent injuries are never really expressed in money. We must continue to realise this in the discussion and assessment of this bill. What matters to me is what expectations we ourselves have with this bill. I do see a number of problems emerging in the implementation of the principle of compensation for affection damage, which embraces the SP. I'll name four, but before I do, I'll have a sip of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u4	And before you do, Mr Van Oosten has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u5	Yes. I have the impression that Mr Van Nispen is now coming to another block of his contribution and I would like to go back to the question of lump sums. In the still to be established AMvB we have seen a look at some amounts. Mr. Van Nispen just gave them again. They are described in the explanatory memorandum as lump sums, but I also read in the explanatory statement that there must be room for a form of moderation in the case of own debt. That would mean that the amount could never be higher, but perhaps lower. Does Mr Van Nispen share that point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u6	As I understand it, the judge can indeed take into account all kinds of circumstances of the case. As far as I know, the explanatory statement does not say literally: in case of own debt amounts will be moderated. However, I have found that the judge can look at all the circumstances of the case. That seems very reasonable to me. I will not fall into this case, but I can imagine that there are situations in which these amounts are too high. It is therefore not reasonable to consider these amounts as 100% lump sums; the judge can provide customization in this respect. That principle does appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u7	I understand that Mr Van Nispen explains the concept of a fixed amount in such a way that the fixed amount cannot be higher, but may be slightly lower, depending on the judge's judgement and specific circumstances of the case. That is why I prefer to appoint that amount as the maximum amount, but perhaps that is a definition issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u8	Yeah, I think it's a good thing we're gonna hear the Minister about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u9	There has just been talk of amounts which may be too high, but can you also imagine circumstances. I shall say something about this in my own contribution, in which the amounts from the AMM concept, to name it, are too low?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u10	That is almost always the case. I believe that the amounts we are talking about, in the order of €12,500 to €20,000, can never, but never take away the suffering. In that sense you can indeed say that the amounts are always too low; that would, I think, also be if it were €40,000. I wrestled with that. I have also thought about whether we should come up with some kind of hardness clause which would result in very poignant situations leading to higher amounts of money. However, this would undermine the principle set out in the legislative proposal of preventing lengthy procedures and avoiding the weighing up of one suffering against another and painful discussions about them, which we would call upon again. That is why I am not making a specific proposal for this now. I had announced that I would ask questions about four emerging problems. The first concerns the criterion of serious and permanent injury. In order to be compensated for loss of affection, there must be serious and permanent injury to the victim or the victim must have died. If someone has died, that is, unfortunately, clear, but that does not apply to the first criterion of serious and permanent injury. That's where we're concerned. In fact, it creates a new legal basis. This is largely left to the practice and to the courts. We trust the judge, let there be no misunderstanding about that, but we also know that the vast majority of injury cases, 95% to 99%, do not even reach the judge. How can we avoid lengthy and painful discussions about the implementation of this criterion? When exactly is there serious and permanent injury? How should injury practice prevent this? I come to the second point: inclusion in criminal proceedings or civil proceedings. Mr Van Toorenburg already asked questions about this. There is little chance that affection damage cases will be dealt with simply and quickly. The question is therefore how many cases will actually qualify for inclusion in the criminal proceedings. The judges have also warned against this. For example, you get discussions about the causal relationship or about the severity and persistence of the injury. Then such a claim quickly becomes too complicated for a criminal case. Often it takes at least two years for a medical end condition to be clear. By a medical end condition I mean: is there any permanent and serious injury? You may already know some serious injuries, but an answer to the question of whether injury is permanent sometimes takes longer than for example two years. Then, of course, a criminal case has already taken place. In short, we fear that a criminal will often find that there is a disproportionate burden on the criminal proceedings. Then the claim will be inadmissible. Next to that are dependent on the civil courts. This means additional thresholds for initiating proceedings, not only because of high costs, such as registry fees, attorney fees and costs of expertise, but also because of the uncertainty about the definition of "serious and permanent'. Does the Minister share our fears that uncertainty will persist for a long time to come? To what extent can he take care of this today? I would also like to draw particular attention to the impact of non-congenital brain damage on the environment. Many consequences are not always immediately visible, let alone whether the brain injury is severe and permanent. And yet these consequences for relatives are very serious, very serious. Besidess sometimes have to do with a completely different person. One of the guidelines for determining whether the conditions for affection damage have been met is that 70% must be permanent invalidity. But that is not always the case. How do you determine that in such forms of brain injury? Can the Minister say anything about that? For example, in the case of brain injury caused by another person, will the criterion "serious and permanent" be met more quickly, because you cannot determine that 70% permanent disability? Thirdly, the cost story. In the detection of injury, a close friend may use investigations already carried out on the victim. But how is a neighbor supposed to prove affection damage? Should research be carried out on this? If that's the case, then those aren't cheap tests. The cost of that would have to be recounted on the perpetrator. If the claim is granted, in addition to those costs, the costs of the proceedings and the damages themselves must be recovered from the liable party, but of course they will not always pay. In fact, the judges say that this is hardly happening now. Perpetrators can also end up in prison, causing their income to stop. How is it ensured that victims and relatives receive their compensation? Of course, the CJIB has an important role to play in this collection, but when it comes to civil action, the closest or next of kin may be able to turn to the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. What is meant by that term "possible"? In what cases and in what cases not? Moreover, in practice, will it not often mean that the public authorities will pay the compensation? In short, how do we make it as easy as possible for victims and their neighbors? How do we take care of this as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u11	I want to ask you about the brain injury. Is that what you mean by psychological damage or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u12	I mean really brain injury, for example, due to a traffic accident, which can really change a person completely. Then it will be very difficult to determine the 70% loss of job, permanent disability. That's where our concern lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u13	So that's something other than physical damage, isn't it? There is talk in the documents about physical damage and about psychological damage or psychological injury. So this is some kind of new term?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u14	It's not a new term. We have been pointed out by the consultation parties that there could be a problem here. I think it falls into the category of physical injury. After all, it is a physical injury, but it is a special form of physical injury. It's brain injury where all kinds of changes can occur in the person. The last problem I would like to raise relates to legal aid. In the Netherlands, we have arranged for people who have suffered injury due to another person's fault to receive free legal aid from a lawyer. But how's it gonna be when you claim affection damage? Can relatives or relatives claim the same kind of right? I have another question about the costs of justice. Any additional costs arising from this proposal will be covered within the current budget of the case-law itself. So there is no extra money as a result of this bill. Unfortunately, this bill is not unique in that, because that is the way it is always going. Why is it always like this? Why is there no extra money for justice in legislative proposals which do indeed affect the workload of the judiciary? The same applies to this bill. That has an impact. The Minister writes in his reply: we can always see how serious that is, what costs it causes, and we will come back to that in the three-yearly price negotiations. But in fact, you would have to pay that well for legislative proposals that would lead to additional costs for the judiciary. There are agreements on this, but they are not being complied with. So the SP thinks you should compensate for this. Why isn't that happening? I would like to receive a response from the Minister. The next question is an uncomfortable question, but I'm gonna ask him anyway. That question is about the right of transition. This bill is only for new cases and not for current cases. If you are unlucky enough to have suffered a serious injury to a loved one and you suffer the consequences of it, or even if a loved one is killed, you will have double bad luck if that happened before the introduction of this law. We received today a distressing e-mail from the grandfather of a displaced grandson whose mother was murdered. The lawsuit on the compensation of affection damage is still ongoing, but the terrible fact has already occurred before the entry into force of this law. Why hasn't a five-year period been agreed, for example? In that case, close relatives of victims would still be able to claim affection damage if the event occurred within five years prior to the introduction of this law. This is not the same as retroactivity, because I am not in general in favour of it, but it would be equivalent to the limitation period for claiming injury. Did you think about it that way? What else did the choice result in? I would like to stress once again that with this proposal we are taking an important step for next of kin and victims, at least if, I hope, it is adopted in the Second and First Chambers. We still have some concerns about the elaboration of this new legal basis. Is it what we expect and hope for? Let's keep a close eye on that. That is why the SP has tabled an amendment on an evaluation clause. I do not do that with every law, but I think it would be very wise for this law to look at, after five years, where any bottlenecks might be, which could be even better and what should be improved in the future. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the practice of injury damage and insurers. In fact, the position of insurers in injury cases is hardening. Dozens of injury attorneys reported to EenVandaag that insurers train, no longer submit claims, by default reject everything and so on. We have the Code of Conduct Treatment Injury Damage precisely to prevent such practices. This is how victims become victims once again. You can't do that. This code puts the victim at the centre of attention and should promote smooth resolution, but in practice it does not work. What does the Minister think of the plea to include this code in the law and impose sanctions as soon as insurers train cases and victims are once again threatened with injury? I'd like to get a reaction to this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u15	Mr. Chairman. A serious accident, let alone a felony, is not only significant for the person himself in the documents he is also called "the hurted" but also has a huge impact on the lives of relatives. The death of a loved one is, of course, a great loss. In addition, they rightly want recognition for that loss. As far as I and my group are concerned, the same applies to serious and permanent injuries. This too has a huge impact on the immediate environment. Something happened to them too. They too have been harmed. That is why we in the VVD Group are in favour of this bill, which allows for the compensation of affection damage. It also fits in with the line the VVD has put in when it comes to standing up for the position of victims. Thus, the right to speak has been introduced into criminal law. We have argued for separate waiting rooms for suspects and victims of sexual assault in court. We have advocated the central role in modernising the Code of Criminal Law. We are constantly paying attention to the position of victims. Eventually, the victim isn't the one who asked for the trouble. It's unsolicited. The victim therefore deserves a government that cares about him, as I have read somewhere, and that stands up for his position. I do have a few questions about this bill. The first concerns the second objective of the proposal, namely the recognition of the error by the perpetrator and the question of the sacrifice of the responsible party. I do not quite understand how this sacrifice is experienced by the causer of, for example, a serious accident. Why can't I understand that? Usually it's an insurance issue. Then the payment of that affection damage is likely to be settled by the WA-insurer of the causer. I understand that then the victim's suffering will be recognized, but you may wonder what the victim's sacrifice is. What's it made of? Even more important is the question of how the causer learns from the mistakes he has made and which have allowed that terrible accident to take place. I'd like a response. That brings me to the next point. I do not think the proposal is entirely clear on the amounts that can be paid if the liable party is obliged to compensate for affection damage. I was just talking about that with my colleague Van Nispen. Are these fixed amounts or are they maximum amounts? I would like to see maximum amounts, so that the affection damage, if deemed necessary, can also be reduced if there is shared debt or own debt with one of the parties. That also relates to the justice that is also experienced by the causer. The explanatory memorandum gives an example of the moped rider who is not wearing a helmet and who is involved in an accident for which another person is liable. If the moped had worn a helmet, it would have been conceivable that the injury would have been less severe or not permanent. Then I think it can be defended that this fact is taken into account in determining the level of affection damage to be paid. However, I think it is necessary that the amounts later fixed at AMvB should not be lump sums, but maximum amounts, because only then will it be possible to reduce the amounts that have to be paid for affection damage. Does the Minister share this reasoning and is it indeed true that own guilt is taken into account and can be taken into account in determining the level of affection damage? I also think it is important to understand how that works in practice. For example, will the amount to be paid be reduced by a fixed percentage? Shouldn't we be laying down detailed rules for this? Or is that still coming to the AMvB? Following on from Mrs Van Toorenburg, I would like to draw attention to the position of victims of sex and their relatives, their close relatives. This was also the result of a call from the Victim's Aid Fund. Can the Minister confirm that the affection damage regime also applies to victims of serious sexual violence? In this respect, I am listening with interest to the answers the Minister will give to the questions raised by my colleague from the CDA. I'm gonna finish with a whole different theme. If compensation is awarded, it is often, at least that is possible, advanced by the State to the victim. Fine, as far as I'm concerned. However, I do think that the causer should be kept in order to make up for that pain money out of his own pocket. I would therefore like the CJIB not to accept too easily that someone is not sufficiently wealthy. If I read the explanatory statement, but perhaps I do not read it correctly, then I have the impression that the collection process can be stopped after eight months and may be stopped by default. I think that's way too soon. I do not want some of the perpetrators or the perpetrators to be able to bear responsibility for their actions. As far as the VVD is concerned, everything is done to make sure that the pain money is actually collected. Only if that turns out to be really impossible can you think about replacement detention as an alternative. I read that that is the alternative. To use the Council's words for justice, you cannot pick feathers from a frog. For nothing, the sun goes up, and that replacement custody isn't for nothing either. It must also be financed by the taxpayer, so I would prefer the Minister to organise that we will either recover the money or get it back from the person who caused it, unless it really cannot be considered to be able to finance it in any way. I await with interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u16	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the bill on affection damage. It should be possible, according to the government, for victims' relatives and relatives to receive pain money. This is now regulated in many neighbouring countries, but not yet in the Netherlands. The government's going for a rematch. An earlier attempt failed. In 2010, the First Chamber rejected a similar bill. What has changed in relation to the initial attempt? What are the most important changes that the Minister thinks the bill will pass through the Upper House this time? Mrs Van Toorenburg mentioned a changed social climate as a reason. I'm curious about the Minister's opinion. Can the Minister, perhaps in abundance, clearly indicate in what cases affection damage can be granted? I myself see cause for affection damage in the following cases: violent crimes, road accidents, including air traffic, and medical misses. Does the Minister agree with me that only in the cases I have mentioned affection damage can be awarded and, if not, in what other cases? I think it is important for him to state clearly what the scope is, what causes or can lead to the granting of affection damage. It is clear to me that a close friend is eligible for affection damage in case of death or severe permanent physical injury. I have a question for the Minister about what is referred to in the proposal as 'psychic suffering'. When does that happen with the victim? I don't mean near the neighbor, but really with the victim. Is that because of that serious and permanent physical injury, as a kind of derivative of it, or is it an isolated category? If the latter is the case, so if it is a separate category like severe physical distress and/or death, the question is how to harm someone seriously and permanently psychologically, so serious that a close affection can be awarded. How is psychological damage done? In other words, how is a person psychologically injured? I would like to clarify this. I would also like to clarify the following. Other than physical and permanent injury, where there must be a 70% disability, this does not apply to psychological injury. How is the psychological damage assessed? In the note on the report, the Minister states that in the event of psychological injury, the severity and persistence of the injury can be made plausible. In my opinion, someone else has already said something about this by submitting an expert's report. You can do this, but you don't have to. How can medical objectivable psychological injury be detected? I have another question, namely who pays for the affection damage. That is generally the insurer in the case of civil damage, but what if you are not insured as a liability? Then who pays the bill? Who pays for violent crimes? There are no insurance policies for acts of violence. Is that affection damage guaranteed by the State? The note on the report now states that it may be reimbursed. So it is possible that there is no guarantee. Does that make any sense to me? The government also says that if the perpetrator is not sufficiently capital-intensive, the next of kin cannot count on maximum compensation. I find that very unreasonable. If the account is to be paid by claims funds and/or the government, do we suddenly say: it is the symbol? I find that contradictory. I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this. Whether we think that there is a loss of affection and that it should be compensated, left or right, or we all think that close relatives should not complain like that and that they should be able to get away with a symbolic amount. It's one or the other for my taste. I'm curious about the Minister's opinion. The starting point for payment is that as much as possible should be avoided that the determination of the compensation of affection damage leads to lengthy and painful discussions about the intensity of suffering. Therefore, a distinction has been made between situations in which a person is seriously or permanently injured and situations in which a person has died. The Minister has more or less explained how affection damage has been dealt with in a number of other countries, but how can it be that in Spain, for example, the amounts are much higher than in the proposal now before us? Does the Minister agree with me that unequal cases are treated equally by the chosen systems, i.e. fixed amounts established by General Measure of Governance? Lead can be assessed on a variable basis and the culprits involved may differ. Sometimes it's about negligence and sometimes it's about violence. Sometimes it's intentional, sometimes it's premeditated. Why is no distinction made? I think it is justified for the legislator to look at the cause of suffering and/or injury. Has it been intentional? Is it negligence? I think it is worth saying that suffering must be assessed individually, case by case. So sometimes I think you're higher or lower. Now it seems, above all, that a system has been chosen to accommodate insurers. The minimum is guaranteed, but the insurer is protected to the maximum. That's nice for the insurer, but for those who are entitled to the affection damage, I think that might be unfair. The suffering often involved in this bill, the grief of relatives of victims of a traffic accident, a criminal offence or a medical error, cannot be expressed in money, nor can it be repaired with money. Recognition of suffering, however, can help in the processing of grief. The question is whether this bill adequately covers the recognition of suffering. I believe that the extent to which the feeling of justice has been shocked should also determine the amount of money allocated. I'm missing that balance right now. I am curious to hear the Minister's opinion on this. In my opinion, the experience gained over the past few decades in determining and allocating shock damage and suffering money should be sufficient to achieve fair and balanced allocation. Why was the framework system chosen? I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u17	I had Mr Markuszower's words working on me for a moment. If I understand correctly, he says: I would like to limit this damage to three categories: crime, road accidents and medical misses. I wonder why he's making that distinction. Suppose people from a pool are negligent, causing a child to drown. Why wouldn't you bring such a case into that category?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u18	I think the point Mr Grothuizen raises is a good one in itself. I hadn't actually thought of crimes myself, but only violent crimes. So I am actually making it even more stringent than Mr Groothuizen in his interruption. Maybe I forgot a category. Mr Groothuizen gives an example, and that actually shows exactly what I am concerned about. Where does this start and where does it end? I think it would be a good idea for the Minister to give an opinion on this as well. That's why I'm making a suggestion. Perhaps I am not entirely in favour of this, if I hear Mr Grothuizen say so. It also says in the law that you shouldn't offend the head of state. Maybe that's what's causing someone serious psychological damage, which we have to deal with. In other words, I'd really like to frame this in front. So I am not so much concerned with benefits. I therefore call for a variable system for these benefits, as I have just said. I'd like to frame in front. When is this going to happen? What categories do you have to think about? I think it would be a good idea if we all had an idea about that. As far as I am concerned, Mr Grothuizen's example could fit in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u19	Clear. However, I do feel that if your categories are really going to border, you run the risk of excluding these kinds of cases. I still prefer to leave the interpretation of this to the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u20	Yeah, that's one side of the business. I'm really pleading for the other side of the case. If you don't frame this, society is also running the risk of getting very broad, and the judge is suddenly going to decide something that we all haven't thought of, and that the judge is going to decide something that wasn't our intention. As far as I am concerned, a statement by the Minister on this could be a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u21	Thank you very much. I now give the floor again to Mr Grothuizen, but now for his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u22	Mr. Chairman. If a close friend dies or suffers serious injury, you are to some extent also a victim. Until now, you can only claim material damage, but not also the damage of the grief, the affective damage, while the latter is often important for the sense of recognition. The feeling of injustice must be confirmed. As early as 2000, 17 years ago, a motion was tabled to meet this need. The VVD, the Labour Party and D66 wanted a proposal to enable the compensation of affection damage. But a bill to that effect was rejected by the Upper House in 2010. Seven years later, we will finally be discussing a new proposal. The need for it does not seem to me to have diminished since then. In practice, as Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly said, there is a great need for legislation. My group is therefore largely in favour of this proposal. It does justice to the sense of justice among relatives and relatives. As far as I am concerned, the concerns for a claim culture, which I share, are adequately dealt with by fixed and limited amounts. In this way we will also avoid a painful discussion about the intensity of the suffering. My group does, however, have a single warning on this bill. In the criminal trial, the criminal case comes first. There is only limited scope for dealing with civil claims. Especially when it comes to the question of serious and permanent injury, when it comes to the question of own guilt or co-indebtedness, the criminal court will start to refer regularly to the civil court. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we should not give rise to excessive expectations. As far as I am concerned, this warning raises a more fundamental question, namely the nature of the criminal proceedings, in which the victim plays an increasingly important role. I do not think that is a bad development, but see that that raises questions. For example, the Court of Justice has rightly pointed out that in criminal proceedings convicted persons will not always be able to pay damages. That could lead to replacement custody. Such a thing can then start sanding with other purposes of criminal law, for example resocialisation. I am thinking, for example, of the case where, after a prison sentence, a person gets his life back on the road, he finds a house, he finds a job, he sets up a family, but can then face replacement detention for unpaid damage. You then in fact cross through a beneficial process. My question to the Minister is therefore how he sees the balance between the increased role of the victim in criminal proceedings and the classic criminal targets. I have two other questions for the Minister. First of all, I have a question about the circle of people who can claim compensation for affection damage. As usual, the starting point is that this circle is limited to persons who have a very close relationship with the victim. A hardness clause has also been included. A category that is not specifically mentioned but which is increasingly common in our current society in the family, is the step family, i.e. stepparents, stepsister and stepbrother. After all, more and more people live in composite families. During the written examination, the Minister indicated that this group was covered by Article 107 (2) (f) or (g). If I see it correctly, it sometimes has consequences for the amount of compensation. I ask the Minister whether that is true, whether he thinks that this distinction is justified and, if he does not think it right, what he is going to do to solve that problem. Finally. The Insurance Association expects an increase in the burden of damage to insurers of around 3% in relation to liability for road accidents. For the medical sector, it expects an increase of up to 15%. My question to the Minister is whether he shares this assessment and what the consequences are for the insurability of this damage and the premiums to be paid. If he estimates that these are serious consequences, is he prepared to monitor them? The legislative proposal seems to assume that the costs associated with enlargement will be borne by insurers. However, there are also many injury cases which the Council has also referred to before the case-law in which the damage is not insured and the liable party has to bear the damage itself. The Council of Justice warns in this respect that there is a risk that the claims for damages will get out of hand. My final question to the Minister is whether he can respond to the Council's criticism of justice and whether he shares it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u23	I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u24	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly started by saying that this is a very important law. I found her definition of the purpose of the law apt, namely that suffering cannot be mitigated by compensation. Each parent will immediately recognize the thesis that he or she does not want to see for a million or for no 10 million that his or her child is harmed. It is not a compensation, but it is a recognition of the suffering, a recognition by the perpetrator of the mistake made and at least a sacrifice is requested from that perpetrator. The need for such recognition is indeed an old one. Mr Groothuizen pointed out that a motion had already been adopted in 2000 asking for a law that would allow compensation for affection damage. He also pointed out that an earlier proposal had been lost in the First Chamber and that this proposal sought to meet the concerns and at the same time to respect the social desire which has certainly not been reduced by a number of regrettable events that have taken place since the motion was tabled. Fortunately, I tasted broad support from the Chamber for the direction of the law. Understandably, a large number of questions were asked about what exactly is meant by a number of parts of the law. I will reply in order of the questioners. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether relocation could also be classified under moved damage. It will recognise that, in individual cases, it is always up to the court to assess whether the criteria of the law in general are met, including that law. In the event of damage being moved, it will assess whether it is damage suffered by the victim who has been made inevitable and for whom another has reimbursed the costs. In a move, the judge will judge along that line: was this inevitable, given what has been done to the victim? Mrs Van Toorenburg also asked Mr Van Oosten whether parents of seriously abused children could claim compensation on the basis of affection damage, or more broadly, how sexual harassment will be dealt with. The law can be applied to vice cases. Whether this will be applied in a specific case depends on the nature of the victim's injury. To this end, the explanatory memorandum contains some very strict directives. In this respect, we also need to be real about the cases in which it will be applied, because the injury to the victim will have to be serious and permanent. You cannot say in general, however serious sexual crimes may be, that in an individual case the judgment will always be: this is so serious and permanent, that the next of kin also have damage for which a claim based on affection damage is justified. So, yes, it can be applied in sex crimes, but it will depend on the individual case whether it can actually lead to a claim worth money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u25	Just for legal history, I have a question. We also see that very small children are often unable to show what damage is. How can we shape that? Of course, it remains a quest, especially in such an Amsterdam sex case in which a lot of children initially saw nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u26	The explanatory memorandum states that in order to determine whether there is a serious and permanent injury, which can therefore also be psychological injury, for example, can be considered for permanent behavioural changes or hospitalisation. This will generally have to be assessed by an expert. There has been some practical experience of this by the Damage Fund Violent Crimes. However, in the example mentioned by Mrs Van Toorenburg, it will soon no longer be a matter that can be determined by inclusion in criminal proceedings. In such a case, the length of time will be such that it will often be referred to civil proceedings by the criminal court for that reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u27	I could also imagine that the case-law will gradually find a way to consider the possibility that the damage that has been caused may later become apparent. Of course, a lot of research is already being done on this. Is it conceivable that you actually say: it is expected to have this impact and therefore a judge can...? I understand that 70% is not absolute, but it is indicative. Is it conceivable that you'll find an opportunity to join it after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u28	The 70% is in addition to the criterion of very serious or permanent. Mrs Van Toorenburg is right in saying that legal practice will continue to fulfil these criteria under this law. This is, of course, one of the issues to be considered in the evaluation. I shall now turn to Mr Van Nispen's amendment. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked whether criminal justice officers, who are thus given a new task, should be specifically trained in assessing claims for affection damage. The Court of Justice has been consulted on this change of law and will therefore include it in the training of judges. As I have just indicated, it will indeed be up to the court to assess in any particular case whether a claim on affection damage can be based on this law. Mr Van Nispen indicated that he would support the law as a whole. He also pointed out that a table of amounts as contained in the explanatory memorandum gives rise to an uncomfortable feeling. I recognize that feeling. At first, it raises the question of how to sum up the loss of a child or a serious disability in €20,000 or €17,000. On the one hand, that is not possible, for it is not compensation or compensation for the suffering. On the other hand, it is a recognition of the suffering suffered, because research has also shown that it is very important for victims that the procedure for determining and providing for damages is clear and identifiable. This procedure must not itself cause suffering again because of a discussion about the extent of the suffering. In this regard, I am convinced that such a table will ultimately have more advantages than disadvantages. It also prevents an endless Juridizing of a process that is painful enough. Mr Van Nispen then asked whether the amounts in that table are lump sums or maximum amounts. Actually, they're both. The principle is that they are lump sums. On the basis of that table, you can say: if a husband dies as a result of a medical failure, that is one of the examples: the partner will receive €17,500 and no longer. In this sense, it is a fixed amount, precisely to prevent the emergence of an endless legal procedure. However, the amount may be reduced under circumstances. An important reason for this is that Mr Van Oosten went on to say that he may be the victim's own fault. In that sense, it is a fixed amount at the same time. If the standard rule can be applied, it will be applied, but there may be reasons to reduce the amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u29	I'm curious how that works out in practice. I understand the Minister well. Among other things, on the basis of own debt, it is possible that a lower amount of affection damage may have to be paid, but how does that translate? Another objective of this legislative proposal is to prevent the emergence of a huge legal profession. I can imagine that, for example, the AMvB says that, at the moment when it is its own fault, 25% or 50% will be removed, depending on its gravity. Is that a direction that can be thought of, or does that story not go down at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u30	It follows from the Civil Code, namely the fifth paragraph of Articles 107 and 108, which Mr van Oosten is undoubtedly prepared to do, that the extent to which he himself has caused this damage is assessed when determining the victim's damage. That consideration is not new to the law. The own debt is then expressed as a percentage. Mr Van Oosten used the example of riding without a helmet, but it can also be a red light bicycle. In previous cases, 20% of own debt was granted. The concept of "own debt" and the corresponding percentages are therefore not reworded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u31	Can I then understand the Minister in such a way that he says that the affection damage to be paid is reduced by fixed percentages if there is own fault? It may be up to the legal practice to develop these fixed percentages. I would like to follow that in that respect, but I do have a follow-up question. The Minister just referred to Article 107 WW. If I understand correctly, that article extends to more than just a deduction on account of own debt. It may also be such a case as this came in the news last week and an insurer says: I hear the victim say what it says, but I think that the suffering that is supposed to be suffered is much less heavy. Then it has nothing to do with its own debt anymore, but a completely different category is being touched that could affect the amount to be paid. Where do I want to go with this question? I would find it regrettable if this bill, which strengthens the position of victims, leads to a very complicated legal discussion about the graduation of the suffering that has been suffered. As far as I am concerned, there is one exception to this, namely if there is an obvious fault, because I think it should be taken into account. Can we shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u32	I follow Mr Van Oosten's reasoning. The purpose of the indeed uncomfortable table is not to have discussions about how great the suffering is of losing a child or a partner or seeing them become severely disabled. So the turns have nothing to do with the degree of suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u33	Very briefly, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u34	I'm glad to hear that. I do not know the content of this case at all, but insurer X is trying to obtain a discount in it by saying 'the suffering you would have suffered is less serious than claimed, proven et cetera'. That could not be the case, unless it is a question of own debt, because that is taken into account in the amount to be paid out according to the percentages we have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u35	If it is an existing case, it cannot be based on this law, so this law prevents this type of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u36	I have a question as a follow-up to Mr Van Oosten's question. If the Minister finds that it follows from the Civil Code that there is a reducing effect on a victim's own guilt, why can't there be an increasing effect on the original offender's real guilt or intent? Why is there a reducing effect on the victim's own guilt, but no increasing effect on the killer's intent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u37	The fact that affection damage can be claimed already indicates that there is a tortious act. With the application of degrees of debt, we would again introduce a type of complexity and legalization that we deliberately want to avoid with these standard amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u38	Isn't this fear of juridisation merely a perceived fear, when you know that there has been a lot of experience over the past few decades in the development of negotiations on shock damage and other damage that is already being compensated?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u39	No. Mr Markuszower is right to say that there is some experience in awarding damages, but it is now a question of discussing the degree of guilt, other than the distinction made in the table between a crime and not a crime but tort. If you are going to add a further refinement to it, then inevitably the edges of it will be looked up in processes. I don't think that's desirable myself. Moreover, you will encounter one of the objections raised by the Upper House in 2010; that you are introducing a very uncertain practice. On substantive grounds, too, I find it unwise to introduce a further, but undefined, differentiation on top of the differentiation already contained in the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u40	I too have a question about the lump sums. These are also not quite fixed, because they are maximum amounts, so they can be reduced down, for example in the case of own debt. Should we understand that this is an exception and that it is in principle these amounts and that it is only in a very special situation that there is a deviation from them? We have to be sure that we do not get discussions over and over again, for example because insurers have an interest in reducing these amounts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u41	Sure. It is as Mr Van Nispen put it. They are standard amounts, and it is really an exception, for example in the case of demonstrable own debt, when derogations are made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u42	That's good to hear. I also agree that such a table of amounts has something uncomfortable, as we have said. How do we avoid, through very careful communication after the adoption of this bill, that we create false expectations? I am thinking of choice of words and information. Is the Minister prepared to look into this with care and extra attention? We should not accidentally give the impression that money or compensation is being used to remove suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u43	Sure. I am also trying to do that in this debate. It is therefore a good thing that this debate is taking place and that your questions are aimed at clarifying these expectations. We will ensure that no unjustified expectations are raised in the supervision of the relatives of victims who invoke this law. That's why I was very specific about sex crimes. These fall within the scope of the law, but the judge will consider whether this happens in a specific case, on the basis of the criteria in the law for very serious, lasting damage. Mr Van Nispen asked what would happen if the damage was still unknown during the criminal trial. According to the scope of the law, the court will then allow the criminal proceedings to proceed but conclude that the damage is not yet to be determined and that a civil claim must still be filed for its recovery. Mr Van Nispen specifically addressed the situation in which there is a brain injury where it is not clear or not yet clear that there is 70% loss of function. As I just said, 70% of job losses are not just directional. There may also be an injury that has such a major impact on the life of a victim and the close relatives, the examples mentioned are the loss of speech, very severe memory loss or character changes.... that the combination is sufficient to grant compensation for affection damage. Mr Van Nispen also asked whether the criterion of serious and permanent injury is sufficiently practicable and does not lead to new procedures. Both the table and the explanatory notes also play a role in the explanatory memorandum. The consultation was of course also of great importance. After all, we asked the parties involved whether this was workable in their view, and this consultation revealed the idea that this should be workable. Mr Van Nispen asked why the bill has no effect if the damage occurred before the entry into force of the law but the handling of that damage takes place after its entry into force. The bill introduces a new type of claim. It is actually practice that, in the context of legal certainty, a person causing damage is not confronted with new claims relating to the past. I realise that this means that people who have been dealing very recently with a serious crime or damage may not be able to rely on it for that reason, but that situation will always arise. Those who took place a few years ago will in any case not be able to invoke this law, even if they could invoke it if the same fact were to occur after the law came into force. Since you always create some kind of injustice with an effective date, I think it is wise to follow the current practice, so that the law will actually come into force as soon as the law enters into force. Mr Van Nispen also asked what was meant by the wording that the compensation fund could be called upon. This "possible" refers to the fact that the condition for recourse to the Damage Fund is that the affection damage has not already been compensated, for example under this law. The insurance fund has a safety net character. Mr Van Nispen also asked about the possibility of free legal aid for relatives wishing to join the criminal proceedings. In fact, the usual procedure applies here: the application for an addition of a lawyer is assessed in terms of capacity. So that will also apply to relatives. In addition, it shall be examined whether the person concerned cannot reasonably represent his own interest. So, in fact, it's tested whether a lawyer is really necessary. What we have in mind with this law is that at least we can use the damage form and free assistance from Victim Help Netherlands or from the Legal Loket. We want to make it as easy as possible, so that the use of legal aid can at least be kept to a minimum. But if that is done, it will be governed by standard rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u44	Adding will often be difficult in criminal proceedings. Then someone with such a complicated damage could end up in the civil court. Does the Minister mean to say that this person, if he is outside the income limits, does not really need a lawyer outside the categories giving entitlement to subsidised legal aid, because we make this as easy as possible? Or does the minister say that that person can afford his own lawyer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u45	It is intended that we make the procedure so simple that no lawyer is reasonably needed, regardless of his income. If someone wants the support of a lawyer, it will be determined on the basis of the usual criteria whether they can rely on an addition. Firstly, the income criteria and secondly, the question of whether it is really necessary for a lawyer to join. In that sense, this does not differ from other assessments of the right to an addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u46	I understand. Still, something is not quite clear to me. In my view, this could be a complicated issue, especially for the civil courts, because of the causal link and the criterion of "serious and permanent injury." How can we ensure that people themselves, without an attorney, can get their rights? In particular, I am asking because someone who needs a lawyer has to pay for those costs. That could be quite a hit on people's income, because a lawyer is incredibly expensive. I do not quite understand how such a complicated action can be brought in a careful manner without a lawyer in the civil courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u47	I can't guarantee that it always does. I can only ensure that we create a procedure that makes it as easy as possible. If it doesn't work, there are no rules or possibilities for this other than those we generally know about additions. Mr Van Nispen further asked whether the judiciary would receive financial resources in relation to the expected number of additional cases. An amount of €150,000 is foreseen for the Judicial Council as a result of this law. The financial consequences have therefore been taken into account. Mr Van Nispen also asked how a discussion would be avoided if matters were settled outside the courts. That's often the case. By means of the explanatory statement, the much discussed table and the interruption of Mr Van Nispen's earlier speech, we really want to avoid any discussion in the case of arrangements outside the courts. As a result, the framework of this law is so clear that it can also be properly applied in these cases. Mr Van Nispen referred to the research costs to be made possible for the determination of serious and permanent injuries. The injury investigation will take place with the victim himself. This law regulates the position of the next of kin. Normally, the costs of that investigation, if they are not already reimbursed by the health insurance company, will be claimed by the victim himself, and not by the next of kin. There is therefore no need for a separate regulation in this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u48	I see that Mr Markuszower has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u49	Yeah, I was just stuck to my chair. In some cases, the victim died, so how does it work?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u50	In case of death, there is no need for a permanent examination of the injury.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u51	Then who's gonna bear the cost of that investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u52	There's a little confusion here. If someone has died.... that is the most terrible outcome... is the amount according to the table €20,000. That is very pragmatic; Mr Van Nispen had a prophetic gift in that regard. Then there is no need for further medical examination. The case I believe Mr Van Nispen is referring to is the following. Let's say someone's been severely disabled. Then there may be discussion as to whether this disability is so serious or permanent that it can be relied upon for affection damage. It will require further investigation. That is my argument: that investigation will be carried out with the victim and that is why it will also be the one claiming the costs. Mr Van Nispen asked whether we could estimate how many cases are expected to be included. When drafting the legislative proposal, approximately 600 requests for inclusion are expected to be submitted by the next of kin. Practice will have to tell us how many requests are being made in the near future. Mr Van Nispen has an amendment (34257), No. 8) in which he comments on the evaluation. I do not know whether the wording of the amendment is intended to be so, but the amendment calls for an evaluation every five years. I would be happy to undertake an evaluation in five years' time, but I think it would go a long way to record for eternity that evaluation should take place every five years. So my request to Mr Van Nispen is either to change the amendment in that direction or to accept my commitment. I'll leave that to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u53	For eternity indeed goes a little far. I am prepared to accept the commitment. If it is purely legal to amend the amendment, I am prepared to look at it, but in principle I agree with an evaluation after five years. Should questions arise after the evaluation, and should we find a new evaluation necessary, we will, of course, come back to that when we discuss the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u54	Yes. I'll give you an evaluation after five years. I come to Mr Van Oosten's questions. He asked what the killer's sacrifice consists of when the WA insurance pays. In the case of offences, the WA insurance does not generally pay out; it excludes that land. This already holds an important category of perpetrators fully responsible for their terrible act. In the event that there are benefits from WA insurance, Mr Van Oosten is right: sacrifice by the perpetrator will not actually be felt. Recognition of the grief and suffering of the neighbor remains, however. That is why the law has added value in these cases. The question of lump sums or maximum amounts has just been raised in the case of interruption. The same applies to the question of how to take on board the debt. I have also answered Mrs Van Toorenburg's question on sexual crimes. Mr Van Oosten asked how it could be avoided that convicted persons avoid their responsibilities through the advance arrangements of the Central Judicial Collection Office. He also asked whether after eight months the perpetrators would be "of the hook." That's not true. I also agree with Mr Van Oosten that the culprit is the one who has to pay. The CJIB is committed to this with the aim of taking care of the victim and the relatives. So once the conviction has become irrevocable, the collection begins by the CJIB. In any event, after eight months, the entire amount, in so far as it is still open, will be transferred by the CJIB to the victim or to the next of kin. There may be a misunderstanding, because that does not mean that the condemned person is also free of his obligation. The CJIB then continues with the means of redress it has, i.e. payroll and as the ultimate measure the imposition of detention. Even if that detention is imposed, the convicted person is still not released from the compensation measure. In practice, it is a difficult process. That will also be the background to Mr Van Oosten's question. We take care of the victim with the advance settlement, but we really don't make sure the unsub is "off the hook."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u55	I thank the Minister for his explanation. I am perhaps on the wrong track, because the explanatory statement does mention the phenomenon of'replacement detention' at some point. Maybe I just don't get it at this point. That replacement detention can be imposed at the time when the convicted person or the perpetrator, I would call it a neutral person who does not comply with his obligations and he does not repay to the State what the State has done well to the victim. I cannot explain the word'replaced' other than that it replaces having to pay that amount. I'm having a little more trouble with that. In any case, if that were to be the case, I would really like to make it the ultimate remedium and then I would like the CJIB to have made the most of it in order to ensure that someone simply meets their obligations rather than being exempted from them and is allowed to undergo a few days of replacement detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u56	I understand the confusion in relation to the term'replacement detention', but the other way around: if there were no possibility of detention, there would be few instruments at the moment when someone has no money or is apparently able to withdraw it from the image of the government. Even if that detention has been imposed and served and assets are found at a later date or someone gets them through, for example, an inheritance or a lottery, then the perpetrator is still obliged to compensate for that damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u57	Let me just say a few words about the Acts: so forgiveness as such can simply never be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u58	Subject to the provisions of the statute of limitations applicable in criminal matters. That is, therefore, in the case of offences with a prison sentence of eight years or more. There is no limitation period for a prison sentence of 12 years or more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u59	Maybe I'm digging a little too deep now, but statute of limitations is at issue when no action has been taken. But if you try to recover the amount and the person concerned doesn't have the assets, then the limitation period cannot go through. The limitation period should start at the moment when the government, so to speak, stops the collection process and then so many years later suddenly starts again. Yeah, well, then there might be a statute of limitations. If we're in the collection process and the person concerned doesn't have the money, maybe because he doesn't want to pay, then we can't suddenly reach some kind of statute of limitations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u60	This law is not intended to change the existing limitation period. I am happy to return to Mr Van Oosten's question in the second term when exactly the limitation period begins. Mr Markuszower started by asking whether this bill meets the objections raised by the Upper House in 2010 to reject the bill. In my opinion, these objections are indeed met. In the First Chamber was first asked whether there is a need for that arrangement. That question can now be answered with a full yes, thanks to the research of the VU. A number of groups in the First Chamber expressed concern about the criteria for serious and permanent injury. The combination of the much discussed table and the further framing in the explanatory memorandum have also clarified the concept of "serious and permanent injury." Furthermore, a possibility for any differentiation in individual circumstances was requested. The table also provides for this, because he knows a number of categories. A final issue that was raised is the loss of income of relatives. It is not regulated by this law, but it is considered with all stakeholders whether additional legislation is needed. Mr Markuszower specifically asked how in the case of psychological injury it is determined whether it is serious and permanent. That was just discussed in an interruption. This should include very profound behavioural changes or long-term hospitalisation. In the end, the expert's judgement will be of great importance in answering the question of whether the criteria are met in the case of psychological injury. But psychological injury can certainly be a reason to rely on the compensation of affection damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u61	Mr Markuszower still has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u62	It's about psychological damage. The Minister speaks of very profound changes in behaviour and hospitalization. I am asking this question for clarification, to know if I am right. Is it a hospitalisation for the next of kin to whom the payment of affection damage may be granted, or for the victim?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u63	It's for the victim. Mr Markuszower mentioned three categories of causes of the damage. He asked if these are the three categories to which this law applies. That is not the case. It is actually the classic concept of "unrighteous act" in relation to a victim. This could be a crime, a medical error or a traffic accident, the three categories mentioned by Mr Markuszower. But it could also be an accident at work or a serious environmental crime. It is deliberately not limited in law to the three categories mentioned. Mr Markuszower asked who would pay the damage if the unsub was not insured. The unsub himself will pay for the damage, but in the event of a crime, the State can advance this amount. In the event of a violent or sexual crime, the victim may also rely on the Damage Fund Violent Crimes if this law cannot be invoked. Mr Markuszower asked for a comparison with other countries. He also raised the amount of €90,000; that would be the compensation in Spain in case of death. The practice in neighbouring countries has been looked at. Most of these countries have a system of affection damage and these schemes are generally in the order of magnitude that is also used in this law. Spain is really at the top of the bandwidth. Also in the VU investigation, in which people were asked how people looked at victims, the amounts used here were seen as real compensations. In the event of interruption, we have already discussed the reason for the choice of lump sums and no possibility of deviation upwards. Mr Groothuizen asked about the position of stepchildren and foster children. They are entitled, even on the basis of the table in which they are mentioned, to table F, even though they are entitled to compensation. They are slightly lower, but they do recognise their important position in family life.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u64	Thank you for that explanation. Well, at least I would have read it right. My follow-up question to the Minister was and still is whether the Minister considers that distinction to be justified. I can very well imagine that some step relationships are as intense and sustainable as biological relationships.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u65	Yes, Mr Groothuizen is right about that. Then you come back into that difficult balance between applicability and justice to the diversity of relationships and the diversity in suffering. In this context, it was finally decided to recognise the position of stepparents and foster children, but to sit on a slightly lower amount. Mr Grothuizen is right that this will in some cases create a feeling of illegality. We've really been trying to find the right place in this. Mr Groothuizen asked if I could estimate the proportion of the Association of Insurance Companies with regard to the increase in premiums. Let me put it this way: I can imagine something in their reasoning, but at least it is not a reason not to want this law. I also think that the development of the premium is a typical way of bringing the evaluation here in the Chamber to the attention of the House. Mr Groothuizen then raised the question of whether any consequence of this law could be that resocialization would be more difficult. I thought he was referring in particular to the situation of a replacement detention being imposed. In imposing a sentence, or in this case compensation, it is inevitable that this is a tax on the convicted person. In this sense, any form of punishment or compensation is a factor that makes the re-socialization a little more difficult or delayed, but that is inevitable when you weigh it against the greater importance of redress for the next of kin and for the victim himself. So this too is another matter of balance of interest, which leads me to say that it has been found to be a reasonable one. Finally, Mr Groothuizen asked for a response to the Council for Justice, which said that we must prevent the emergence of an out-of-control claim culture. I recognize that concern. That is precisely what we have tried to frame through the combination of lump sums and very strict criteria for recourse to this law. I am convinced that by doing so we will ensure that the victims and their relatives are justiced, without introducing an unbridled claim culture in the Netherlands. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place. I will give Mr Van Oosten an answer to the question as to when the limitation period will start exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u66	Thank you very much. I'll see if the Chamber needs a second term. That's the case. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u67	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the careful way in which he has tried to answer the questions of the Chamber. It's a very complicated bill. At the same time, however, this law is trying to make something very complicated a little more manageable. We will have to see how it is going to work in practice. I think it is very good that Mr Van Nispen has provoked the Minister's promise that he will evaluate this law. I think that's valuable. We want to find a way, without American conditions, victims, neighbors with intense pain, to be able to meet a little bit. I think that's what we're talking about today. I am confident that with today's legal process, the First Chamber can also get a good picture of it and that it has, quite rightly, removed its objections. We should not have huge discussions about the amount of money. It is almost more about compensation for suffering than about the suffering that has been done and the punishment that the perpetrator deserves or that what the culprit is responsible for must not only bear criminal law. My compliments on the proposal and on the perseverance with which it has continued on the road to better accommodating victims' relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u68	Mr. Chairman. I too am pleased that we have had this debate today. We unanimously support it, but it was not a debate that just as well should not have been held. It had to be fed. This is not only the case because it is a very important subject with a history. It's been killed before in the First Chamber. I also hope that, with this debate, we have been able to overcome the concerns of the Upper Chamber of that time. The Dutch legal system is finally going to acknowledge the suffering suffered by relatives and relatives because of their loved ones being injured or death by another. I also think it is a good thing that we have had this debate today, because I really feel that we have dealt with questions today which are important for parliamentary history, which they are part of, and which are going to help legal practice. That's the hope I'm expressing. I refer to the discussion on lump sums. They are therefore maximum amounts from which, in the case of a really high exception, derogations can be made. We have also stressed that the table of amounts has something uncomfortable, because suffering cannot be expressed in money. We also discussed the difficult criterion of "serious and permanent injury." Think about the brain injury. Fortunately, the Minister also said that there does not necessarily need to be 70% job losses. A combination of, for example, loss of speech or something like a change of character is serious as such and does not need to be shown to be 70% loss of function. I hope that with this debate we will contribute to the fact that in the cases that will be dealt with outside the courts, the majority will be dealt with as discussed today. As far as the cases that do come to court are concerned, I have drawn attention to their simplicity. How do we make it as easy as possible for victims and their relatives and possible relatives? How do we take care of them as much as possible? I still have a bit of a problem with the lawyer's cost. We shouldn't be chasing people at a cost, but how? The Minister said that in cases like this, you can sue without a lawyer. I wonder if it is. It could be complicated. Can the Minister go into more detail as to why it would be justified to sue without a lawyer in such cases of affection damage? It is very good that the Minister will pay attention to the careful communication so that no expectations can be raised that cannot be fulfilled. Finally, my amendment on evaluation. I am happy to amend the amendment. However, if the Minister says here today that he has promised an evaluation, so that it does not have to be in the law, then I might as well withdraw the amendment. So I would like to hear a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u69	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for the answers he has given to my questions. I understand that the amount of affection damage to be paid can also be considered as a maximum amount. I call that also because I find that so relevant. This means that this is, therefore, including the inclusion of the principle of self-indebtedness, but also, in principle, limited in scope, so as not to create an entire legal system. That is not the intention, because that would weaken the position of the victim. And it is precisely because of the victim's position that this bill is being discussed by us at all tonight. However, and as a result, I also think it is important that the perpetrator, the culprit of the grave suffering, should actually bear the responsibility for the suffering he has caused. That's just something I value very much. That is why I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of compensating victims for their suffering;]] [[Whereas this is first and foremost a duty of the person who caused the suffering;]] [[Whereas it is therefore important that assigned affection damage should be paid by the sentenced and not by the public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that affection damage, the payment of which is advanced to the victim/victims by the government, is always promptly and indefinitely reclaimed to the person from whom the claim has been taken over,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Oosten and Mr Van Toorenburg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34257-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u70	I have a question about this motion. Of course, I support the principle that a government that is ahead will simply have to tell the responsible party. The word "prevent" already says that. But we all know how hard that is sometimes. You cannot pick feathers from a frog; Mr Van Oosten said so. Perpetrators often have no money, are in prison, have no income and so on. How exactly are we supposed to understand this motion? Does it have to happen immediately and always? How far should the government go in that? How do we prevent someone from getting in debt in such a way that all kinds of incentives are created to get someone back on the wrong path, which we do not want? I think Mr Groothuizen has already pointed that out. How is this taken into account in the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u71	I find it almost fundamentally difficult to assume that one person should cause the other suffering because the first has a hard time in life. I just don't understand. I think that if someone causes suffering, he has the responsibility to bear it. So he has the responsibility to pay for that affection damage. I have also heard the Minister say this, but I see this motion as a kind of encouragement in that direction. Once that person has any assets, he must continue to be held to pay that affection damage out of his own pocket. After all, the second aim of this bill is precisely the sacrifice of the perpetrator. That's what we want, and that's what I stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u72	I agree entirely with Mr Van Oosten, but I also heard a very important nuance. He said, "If anyone has the power." So Mr Van Oosten says, in his motion and like the SP, that we are making a distinction between those who are not able to pay and those who do not want to pay. The people who don't want to, you have to deal with them. So it is the people who have the ability, but simply refuse to pay for things when they are forced to do so. But the people who really don't have anything, you shouldn't put them in jail, hold them hostage, put them in remand and so on. This only creates additional problems and also costs society. After all, we all know how expensive a detention site per day is. Mr Van Oosten does not want to go down that road. Do I understand him that well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u73	Yes, but I'm a little afraid that Mr Van Nispen might draw the line that determines when someone can't pay, much sooner than I would. With this motion and in my contribution, I try to make it clear that I think that the CJIB should really go to the limit in answering the following questions. Does anyone have power? Anybody getting power? Can someone take responsibility for their actions? I have already indicated in my first term of office, I believe I said it to the Council for the sake of justice after the fact that you can't pick feathers from a frog. That's how real I am. But it must be really a frog before you can't pick feathers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u74	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u75	Yesterday morning, we were able to read in the Volkskrant the example of a highly pregnant woman who threatened to be held hostage because she could not pay certain debts. In that case, the CJIB was behind it as hard as Mr Van Oosten seems to call for in the motion, but would he not want that kind of situation either?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u76	I am not exactly familiar with the article referred to by Mr Van Nispen. I want everyone in this country to take responsibility for their actions, whether you're pregnant or not. That's all I care about. I think that the CJIB has the task of conducting the collection process a bit firm. I think it is perfectly normal that you should bear a responsibility in this country for the damage you have done yourself. If you are kept to compensate for affection damage, you should actually pay, unless you are a frog without feathers, but I would like the CJIB to study whether that is really the case. The CJIB should not decide too quickly and too easily to proceed to detention, whether or not to be remanded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u77	Does Mr Van Oosten agree with me that there may have been cases as I described in my first term? So it's someone who's been punished, but who's getting better. Luckily, there are those success stories. Someone finds a job, finds a home and gets a relationship, but at some point, the replacement custody can still come around the corner. That again stands in the way of carrying out one of the functions of criminal law. That might lead to people losing their jobs. As a result, we are ultimately worse off as a society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u78	I'm looking for the question, but I assume...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u79	The question was whether Mr Van Oosten agrees with me that this is a problem and that there may indeed be cases in which this system, which we are now, of course, implementing a little bit further now that we are adding a damage point, is one of the objectives of criminal law, namely that people simply no longer repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u80	I think the bill we're dealing with now has two objectives. The first goal is to put the victim in position. We all agree on that. The second objective, which I have asked the Minister about, is the sacrifice we demand from the perpetrator. I think we all agree on that. This means in this case that you pay the damages, the pain money for what we now call affection damage, and that you are also chased when you don't pay them. To follow Mr Groothuizen's example, if anyone has any ability at any time because he has a job again, I would like to give him my heartfelt thanks, so that he can also pay for the loss of affection. I think that's perfectly normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u81	Finally, Mr Grothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u82	It is, of course, a question of situations where people cannot afford it and where replacement detention takes place. This leads, for example, to a loss of orbit, which will allow us to cross the positive path. How does Mr Van Oosten appreciate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u83	But it doesn't change the fact that you still have a responsibility for the damage you caused for that? I still assumed that the detention took place instead of paying back the affection damage, which is now advanced to the victim by all of us, by the state. I understand from the Minister's words that this is not even the case. So it's not a substitute. There's a form of detention being imposed, but it's not a substitute. It does not mean that someone will no longer have to pay; this may be done at most on the basis of statute of limitations. I think it is important to make a very clear statement here that if you cause a crime, it is perfectly normal for you to be held to bear the responsibility for it and thus to pay the compensation for the affection damage to the victim's neighbors.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u84	I think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u85	No, Mr Groothuizen, I had already said "finally." I believe that the positions have been clearly discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u86	To conclude, I find it disappointing that Mr Van Oosten is so easily clinging to his own responsibility, and thus actually abandoning one of the objectives of criminal law, preventing people from repeating themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u87	This bill has two objectives: victim status and perpetrator sacrifice. I'd like to see the killer's sacrifice again. That means the CJIB has to go to extremes. That is what the motion calls for. I ask Mr Groothuizen to support the motion, or not. I can see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u88	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his answers. Thank you also for the commitment of an evaluation. Can the Minister include in such an evaluation whether it is desirable, after that period of review, to grant, if the perpetrator intentionally committed the tort or the crime, an increased degree of affection damage? So please include this as a specific element in the evaluation. I still have one or two questions about that element of psychological distress. We've already had a few exchanges on that. I'd like to have it a little clearer, also because one question hasn't been answered, that's how I discovered later. In what cases does the victim suffer psychologically as a separate category? By which I mean, how can you hurt someone seriously and permanently? What examples are included if, for example, there has been no serious physical distress? What do you have to have done to someone that's just psychic suffering? The Minister just said in the debate that the victim must have been severely mentally affected and that a change in behaviour must have been noted. In addition, there must have been a recording of the victim. Is that an obligation, those criteria? The documents mention it as a possibility and in the oral answer to the questions here it seemed as if it was an obligation. Can the Minister state clearly what the obligations are now in determining psychic suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u89	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's answers. I think they have given a lot of clarity on this important and also quite complex issue. I am pleased to hear that the Minister intends to review the law after five years. I think that would be wise, too. I would like to ask him explicitly whether he can promise me that he will include my question about the increase in premiums and its consequences in the evaluation. On one point, I could not fully follow the Minister, namely considering the position of the stepparent, if there is a relationship with a sustainable character, on the same footing as that of the biological parent. To be honest, that doesn't seem very complex to me. I think that could be arranged. That is why I am tabling the next motion, together with Mr Van Nispen of the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the nature of the relationship between the victim and the next of kin is a significant factor in determining the amounts of compensation for loss of affection;]] [[Whereas discussion in the courtroom on the intensity of suffering and the level of amounts should be avoided as far as possible;]] [[noting that stepparents and/or stepchildren appear to be in a category with which they claim a lower allowance than biological relatives;]] [[Whereas the number of composite families in the Netherlands is increasing and, in some cases, stepparents and/or stepchildren live together in close families for years;]] [[calls on the Government to grant, in determining the amounts per general measure of management, stepparents and/or stepchildren of a victim the same amounts to compensate for the loss of affection as for biological relatives, if there is a family relationship of a lasting nature,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Grotehuizen and Mr Van Nispen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34257-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u90	Mr Groothuizen refers, I think, to the table which is still a bit in the air, because it still needs to be reflected in an AMvB which will only come into force once the First Chamber has also agreed to it. The stepchildren he refers to, he wants to place them with the usual adult children and parents, to put it that way. You also have the category of foster children. I'm just looking; how exactly does Mr Groothuizen see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u91	I think there's a lot of ways you can work that out. You can find it in the definition and indeed put it in a different category. You could also simply adjust the amounts, for example in the case of stepchildren with a lasting relationship. You can leave it that way and make it a kind of likeness. Those are technically different ways to solve it. I am confident that the Minister will get that sorted out, but it should indeed be dealt with in the AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u92	Exactly. That is the most relevant thing for us at the moment. The point is that what you intend to do is already laid down in the law, namely in Article 107 (e). I think the Minister was just talking about that. This concerns the person who, at the time of the event, sustainably cares for the wounded in the family. That's what you're talking about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u93	Yes, but that is a category with a lower remuneration than when there is a biological relationship. I find that illogical, and I therefore say that I do not care very much how you solve the technical problem, but try to put it in one way or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u94	Thank you. I'll see if the minister is able and willing to answer. I see that's the case. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u95	Mr. Chairman. I have been able to answer Mrs Van Toorenburg's questions with satisfaction. I thank her for her words of appreciation for this bill. Mr Van Nispen also referred to the clarity that the debate has fortunately been able to create. He asked me to go further into the question of whether or not assistance by a lawyer is necessary. When inserting into a criminal case that is the possibility introduced by this law is in my opinion not to bring a lawyer through the simple procedure, which I have also described. In civil cases, we already know the distinction between cases of smaller amounts in the canton court, where a lawyer is not required, and cases of larger amounts, where that is true. Often the amounts we are talking about here will belong to the first category. However, I cannot rule out the possibility that, in the case of a combined claim, for example, a claim that sees both on the victim and on affection damage, the amount exceeds the limit of the canton court and that an obligation arises for the support of a lawyer. Perhaps that's what Mr Van Nispen was referring to. We will then find ourselves in a situation that does not deviate from any other situation in which an appeal to a lawyer is made. It simply looks at the income and capital position for the question of whether an addition can take place. In many cases, however, we will not have to go that far because that lawyer is not necessary. Mr Van Nispen then asked whether his amendment was still necessary. I hope that he will be satisfied with my commitment, made the second time, that the law will be reviewed after five years. If so, he could withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u96	I would like to see the amendment tabled on the part of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 8 would like to move in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u97	The Van Nispen amendment (Doc. 34257, No. 8) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u98	Mr Van Oosten still owed me the answer to the question of when the limitation period for enforcement begins. That period shall begin on the day following the day of the judgment, i.e. the moment when the judgment has become final. As far as the duration is concerned, I have just indicated that the existing criteria are used for the limitation period. Crimes for which a prison sentence of 12 years or more may be imposed shall not be subject to a limitation period. Crimes for which a prison sentence of eight years or more may be imposed shall be subject to a limitation period of 20 years. By reason of the existence of the limitation period, the motion brings to point No. 9 by Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Van Toorenburg in a difficult position. I share the three considerations of the motion, but the motion quite clearly states that 'always, without delay and for an indefinite period, shall be returned to the person from whom the claim has been taken over'. This has been formulated so firmly that it leaves no room for the limitation period that we already know, nor for the situation that might arise that, after a number of efforts, the CJIB finds that the costs and benefits of a redress action are no longer in balance. With such a sharp wording, I must discourage this motion, although I do recognize the three considerations in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u99	It is a pity that this motion is not recommended, but that does not mean that I personally still support this motion, including the operative part as it has now been formulated. But I listen very carefully to what the Minister says. I understand that, in the context of this legal process, we cannot change the limitation periods as they apply, which I naturally respect. I am going to take a critical look at whether I can change the operative part so that at least it must be considered including limitation periods and action must still be taken without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u100	If there is a motion with a new operative part, I will respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u101	I also referred to these terms. It seems to be a very tough, decisive motion, but everyone already supports the principle that the costs should in principle be recovered from the perpetrator. If there is a call from the Chamber that encourages the Minister to further strengthen the policy, after all, if that is not the call, then the motion is not necessary.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We have often insisted on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u102	Fortunately, I have had the opportunity to visit the CJIB recently and to look into the efforts that have been made there. I note that there is an enormous amount of work going on there, but that there is also a constant search for opportunities for further damage in this case, since this law has not yet been introduced, but it is similar matters to be dealt with. In the implementation I always see possibilities for improvements, but when it comes to a legal change as the motion has now been formulated, I do not see it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u103	Then the question is whether the Minister needs a motion because he himself had already come to the conclusion that costs should in principle be recovered. Will the Minister say that there will always be a sensible policy, looking at people who simply can't afford it, people who really want to pay it but can't do so, so that we don't have to spend unnecessary money on the government itself because there is no sense of redress because there is a need for a chamber motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u104	It is not up to the Minister to judge whether or not motions are necessary. In response to Mr Van Oosten, I indicated that the CJIB has the room to make the assessment, after an extensive effort has been made to recover, that the costs no longer outweigh the benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u105	This is what I am talking about, and that is the thrust of the motion. I would not want the CJIB to be too quick and too easy to consider that the costs no longer outweigh the supposed benefits, because the starting point of this bill is that we demand a sacrifice from the perpetrator. We demand from the unsub that we also want as a State to stand up for the position of the victim, that he understands that what he has done is simply wrong. This means that the CJIB has to use a heavy and firm collection route and not too easily on the basis of possible choices in the private life of the causer that the one is a bare chicken or that frog without feathers. I don't want to. That is indeed an added value that lies hidden behind this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u106	I agree with Mr van Oosten that there can be no question of the easy omission of the collection of money. Let me give you an example of a situation that may arise. Very practical: someone has moved to a foreign country after serving the sentence, I hope to find out and no longer. It's a real pain in the ass, but that's the kind of situation that happens. Another example is that something happens in a person's life, which can also be blameless, so that oneself has become so disabled that he can reasonably no longer earn his bread, making a claim that was previously narcissistic, in fact unspeakable. For such situations, an institution such as the CJIB should not have so much room to say easily: we are not trying anymore, because that is not how they are put together, but rather to say that it would do harm to society if a lot of costs and efforts were still being made, even though it is already certain that it will never produce anything. We need to be real about that piece of space.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u107	I would like to see this space a little less spacious, because I understand these extremely poignant situations, but I do not want us to approach this as an accountant and weigh the costs and benefits. It's a principle. I think maybe it's hardly worth the effort. It's a thought of sacrifice, where we really want that person to feel it. The victim must also be able to know that someone felt it themselves. That is precisely the added value. May I ask the Minister whether it can be implemented in this way? Of course, solutions must be found for distressing situations, but please don't look at them as an accountant who says: now it's getting a little too expensive to collect it, so forget it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u108	I do not know why the socially relevant group of accountants is being put in such a bad light here, but I do agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that you cannot reason that the cost-making process does not pay, because then you should not start this process. The balance cannot be so short, but I do understand that Mrs Van Toorenburg can imagine that the situations I describe may arise. One is a huge change in the perpetrator's position, making it really impossible to claim anything. The other may be that one has to fly halfway across the world because one really doesn't know where someone is anymore. That is possible if someone comes from a country with a civil status which is less organized than that of accountants in our country. There are really countries where you can't find someone when he moves there. We have to take this kind of situation into account in practice, but this does not mean that there will be no cost or any long-term effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u109	It can make a difference if a file isn't closed, because someone might show up again and we'll still catch him in his chicken neck, if we're talking about bald chickens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u111	But let it be said here that I really appreciate accountants, but more if they're after someone who doesn't comply with the WNT than working at the CJIB.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u112	I'm sure the accountants who are listening will now rise up excitedly from their seats. Mr Markuszower asked for the evaluation to include the possibility of increasing amounts if necessary. That seems to me a reasonable question, so I am happy to say so. He also asked to continue with serious psychological distress. There are also people who are psychologically damaged, other than by crimes, so that their future lives are completely marked or in fact destroyed. Very well known, for example, are shell-shocked soldiers or war victims who have seen such terrible things that they can no longer function normally. Mental damage caused by very profound events has unfortunately occurred very often in the course of history. So being a victim of a serious crime could really hurt someone mentally. In the event of a similar crime, one person will be more damaged than the other, either by one's own constitution or by one's own course of life. In my view, however, there is no doubt that there can be very serious psychological damage caused by a crime, even if it is so serious that it is seriously obstructing its functioning. The follow-up question is how to establish that this is the case. For this purpose, the explanatory memorandum provides a number of tools. It is logical that experts always determine whether the degree of damage, the degree of suffering, is so great, but the hand-out that is being done is that it is indeed a serious obstacle to functioning or, for example, an admission into a psychiatric institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u113	Mr Markuszower has another question on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u114	I'm starting to understand, but what if someone isn't admitted to a psychiatric hospital? I'm just looking. What room is there other than that shown in the explanatory statement? There is no exhaustive list in that. These are indeed handouts; these are handles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u115	Sure. Mr Markuszower will forgive me for noticing that, even when it comes to bodily injury, doctors cannot determine the degree of damage or suffering as a mathematician. In some types of physical injury, this can be done, but it concerns, for example, the degree of pain, then there is always an assessment. This is also the case with the extent to which it hampers functioning and the extent to which it is sustainable. In this sense, physical damage does not always deviate from psychological damage. So even in the event of psychological damage, an expert, in this case generally a psychiatrist, will make an assessment. In addition to being admitted to a psychiatric facility, which is also the result of an assessment, for example, it may also be a serious change in behaviour, where someone is really a completely different person or can no longer perform the daily life operations properly. It is not entirely new that these assessments need to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u116	Perhaps then for the history of law: does the Minister agree with me that this is being applied with great caution, namely only in the case of very serious cases of change of behaviour, in the case of serious obstacles to daily operation for a long period of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u117	That's because that's how the whole law works, whether it's physical distress, physical damage or psychological distress. In the case of affection damage, that is what we are talking about here. As a result, the law also has a very restrictive character, precisely for the very reason that we started the discussion. No matter how horrible every crime and its consequences are, you don't want to get bogged down in a total culture of claims, of bidding against each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u118	Thank you for this, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u119	I can promise Mr Groothuizen that we will include the development of premiums in the evaluation. Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen asked the government in their motion for a resolution on item No. 10 to reconsider the position of stepparents and stepchildren when implementing the General Measure in the sense that they are granted the same amounts to compensate for affection damage. Since the AMvB is still in its final form, I would like to await the opinion of the Chamber on this motion. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House's discretion. Mr President, I hope I have answered the questions in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-20-tweedekamer-19.u120	I suggest we vote on this bill and the motions after the recess. I would like to thank the Minister very much, as well as the participants and everyone who has been watching. I hope you all have a safe journey home. I wish you all a good recess!
