ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group, who has just put a candy in her mouth. Are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. Climate change does not wait for a cabinet formation. We need a good climate policy, but it must be a fair climate policy. That's where it goes wrong. The poorest Dutch are now fighting for climate policy. A few months ago, I first met Jeffrey. He works in the coal supply for coal plants and he gets double hit. Climate change is a threat to him, as it is to others, but he will also lose his job. Is there a green job for him? What does this mean for his income? In the Oosterparkwijk in Groningen, where I live, you don't see Tesla's but people who can't afford their energy bill. Hardly anyone has money on the savings account to invest in a heat pump or solar poles. Many people really have to watch their spending when they shop. This is also reflected in the figures from the CE Delft report we are discussing. Companies cause 3.3 billion in climate damage and pay 1.5 billion. Households cause 2.6 billion in climate damage and pay 5.4 billion. Only a quarter of the benefits of climate policy go to households and 80% go to those with the highest incomes. I repeat, 80% of this goes to the people with the highest incomes. And that while one third of the poorest Dutch people already lost 11% of their income on energy; in 2050 that average is 17%. As Ephimenco said, a green happy few against climate change. Climate policy increases inequality while inequality brings about climate change. Do we see the largest transfer of capital from poor to rich since World War II? Unfairness undermines the basis for climate policy and we need a fair climate policy so badly. The desires and burdens share fairly, for that also advocate Milieudefensie, the Woonbond and the FNV. But Kim Putters, director of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, also states that climate change should not be a piece of cake. Climate change does not wait for a cabinet formation. We need to get to work now. The SP would therefore like to call for a parliamentary committee of inquiry, in which all parties will carry out research together and come forward with proposals for a fair climate policy, as we had such committees for the sustainability of food production, for biotechnology and for the maintenance and innovation of rail, as well as for climate change and the greenhouse effect in 1996 in order to increase knowledge and come up with proposals. I'm pleading for that again. I am in favour of a parliamentary committee of inquiry for a fair climate policy. Let us join hands as widely as possible and together ensure a fair energy revolution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Of course there's a lot to be done. That's what I'm supposed to do. We've already signed the Paris Agreement. By the way, good steps have already been taken, but I do not hear the SP much about that. If we see how this minister has put wind at sea in the market and if we see that the subsidy for wind at sea at a German park is zero, that is the core of the story, bringing down the costs. I only hear the SP talking about redistributing it, which is another typical redistribution story, but when it comes to bringing down the costs that make it affordable for everyone, I actually miss the compliment of the SP to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	When I hear you like that, I think I actually made a very good proposal. I didn't ask for a SP proposal. I said: let us work together, let us, as a whole Parliament, investigate a fair climate policy and let us also come up with new solutions, as this Chamber did in 1996. So, actually, I'm not making you such a crazy proposition. Let's come up with solutions together. You're already very optimistic. I'm a little less, but I think this could be a very nice tool to make it even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	This has nothing to do with optimism, but with reality, with what we are seeing now, with what has been put into effect by the good policies of this cabinet and this Minister for Economic Affairs, which means that we are seeing the costs go down. I miss that story with you. From today's reality, we see that it is much more important to reduce costs than to achieve a redistribution that the SP advocates. I had asked for a compliment for this minister, but apparently that cannot be done with the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	It's kind of nice to see how we get to agree on some things. The costs must indeed be reduced. What I do see, and perhaps less, is that in the neighbourhood where I live, the Oosterparkwijk in Groningen, but also in many other neighbourhoods, there really is a problem with energy poverty. I would indeed like to call for a large-scale redistribution of desires and burdens. I understand that you are not on my side, but let us at least think together about how we can ensure that these costs go down. Energy poverty is neither good for the people it affects, nor good for the climate, nor good for the support for sustainability. So let's just get our hands together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	There must be something off my chest on behalf of the PVV. The SP calls for a debate on the impact of this climate policy, particularly on low incomes. You say that low incomes are so badly affected that something needs to be done about them. But it is the SP who has advocated the energy agreement and the climate agreement here. You have made the storage of renewable energy possible. Doesn't the SP think it's hypocritical to stand up here for low incomes? You've caused the extra burden on those people, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	In fact, the SP even signed a climate law, but not before... That was a very important moment; we were not under the first version. The signature of the SP was only signed after we had the assurance that this climate policy would be a fair climate policy. And we will continue to do so. We are indeed in favour of a green revolution, but we are also in favour of a social revolution, a fair distribution of lusts and burdens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	So if we, as a PVV, come up with a motion to combat this tax on low incomes and to combat this tax on renewable energy, do we find the SP on our side now or do you fail to do so again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	I haven't seen such a motion. I would like to look at every motion, but I think we have two things to do: to ensure that the desires and burdens are shared fairly, but at the same time to ensure a good climate policy. I live in Groningen. If it becomes painfully clear somewhere that we have to stop fossil, it's there. Then we will indeed have to develop alternatives and we will need a climate policy and a social policy. That goes hand in hand. That is why my proposal is to investigate this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. The climate is changing. Because of our way of life, because of the great ecological footprint of Western man, the climate changes. Areas are drying up, other areas are experiencing large rainfall. Desertification and flooding, that's the two flavors. They are also the most visible consequences of climate change. The consequences are noticeable for everyone. Harvesting fails, drinking water becomes scarce and it is the poorest elsewhere in the world who pay the bill. It is clear that those most affected by global warming are not the same people who have made the greatest contribution to climate change. Within the Netherlands, too, the lusts and burdens are unfairly distributed. Those who contribute most to climate change are the least affected. One sector contributes much more to climate change than the other. One company contributes much more than the other. One citizen contributes much more than the other. We need a fair and effective climate policy. Does the Minister agree with me that achieving the climate objectives should lead the "polluter pays" principle? In this context, I can translate that into: the extortion pays. Now the reverse is the case: the more energy you consume, the more you emit, the more the government supports and helps you. Large consumers of energy, such as heavy industry, aviation and agriculture, are spared where possible. These large consumers pay relatively much less energy tax. Even coal-fired power stations are supported by refund schemes. The polluter is polluting and the taxpayer is entitled to pay. Does the Minister agree with me that, if we really want to tackle greenhouse gas emissions, we should stop paying for large-scale consumption and get rid of all kinds of enlightening measures for companies and large-scale energy consumers as soon as possible? In the debate this morning, we talked about energy saving. I said the most renewable energy is energy you don't use. Other spokesmen said something similar, just like the minister. I want to repeat that here. Energy that you don't use doesn't lead to greenhouse gas emissions. Energy saving therefore saves the climate. Energy saving also saves the wallet. Think of the good insulation of homes. The Party for Animals proposes to set up an isolation fund, a fund available for everyone to take the necessary isolation measures with an appropriate refund period. Is the Minister in favour of this? The effects of climate policy on the poorest should also be discussed with the Minister for Housing and National Service. In order to limit the effects of climate change on the poorest, we must also isolate the stock of social housing. People in social housing should also be able to reduce their energy bill by means of insulating measures. We are having this debate with the Minister of EZ. My question to him is: what measures does the government take to make the stock of social housing more sustainable, so that the poorest can also take action against climate change? I understand if that question is answered in writing later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	I think there's a fund for isolation, but that aside. I have a question for Mr Wassenberg about the measures he intends to take for industry. In his opinion, the industry should simply pay more. Do we just have to do this when the Netherlands is alone and see what the consequences are? Or does Mr Wassenberg think that this should be tackled at European level or perhaps even at global level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	Of course, you have little to say about a global approach. I would prefer to see it European, but let us indeed start in the Netherlands. Let us not wait every time, because if you want to wait for Europe or, worse still, for the whole world, nothing will ever happen. In the end, you're gonna have to take steps. Maybe I can say that you're not going from everything to zero in one go, but you're going to have to start in the Netherlands. Waiting endlessly for Europe makes very little sense, because then you will never get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think that's a nice move: we're going to do it gradually. So we do it with care, looking carefully at the consequences and in connection with what is happening around us. Do I understand Mr Wassenberg that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	Well, that's quite a free interpretation. I'm saying, you don't go straight to nothing. Then you give that a very broad meaning. No, I say we should not wait for Europe, we should not wait for the world at all, but we can take steps ourselves. Then it may be unlikely to turn the crane off at once, but at least let's start with it. Let's just set deadlines for that. Let's at least start discussing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. The VVD stands for an affordable, reliable and clean energy supply. With the energy agreement, we have taken the first step. In order to make the Paris Agreement more sustainable, we need to take much more and much bigger steps. Those steps are absolutely not easy. If the objectives of the Energy Agreement are not met or are not in danger of being met, the parties here are not blaming the Minister for going fast enough. When the Minister takes steps, the parties blame the Minister for taking too great a step. Now the Minister is taking the major steps that the applicant for this debate wants, but the costs are again not desirable. The parties who find the energy transition too expensive are often also those who want to take bigger and bigger steps. The VVD is in favour of an affordable, reliable and clean transition, a transition that not only sustains but also ensures that the costs remain affordable, we can always shower hot and still charge the smartphone. But reliability is also: providing companies with investment security and making long-term agreements that do not change in every chamber debate. Uncertainty leads to higher costs. The most widely heard solution is that we simply tax the companies in our country more to make them pay that high price of the energy transition. Remember that this energy price is simply passed on to the consumer and that industry creates jobs and innovation. We don't want to lose that either. I'd like a vision from the Minister on this. The energy bill should not become income policy, the energy bill should not be compensated, but we should work towards a real energy price. This is an energy price where subsidies are no longer needed but renewable energy determines the price. We also need to work on an energy bill where the netting and network charges are well regulated. The VVD therefore strongly opposes parties in the Chamber who once again see the energy bill as a way of redistributing and distributing subsidies. The VVD wants an energy bill with a pure energy price, in which the decentralised generation gets a fair chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. The energy transition costs money. The longer we wait for the energy transition, the higher the bill will be for future generations. The consequences are already disastrous in Africa, among others, where climate change leads to drought and hunger. And look at the situation in Groningen. If our houses do not become independent of natural gas, the gas tap will remain open, with major consequences for the safety and emissions of greenhouse gases. We cannot postpone that solution for ourselves. It is worrying that the lowest income groups have lost an increasing proportion of their disposable income to energy costs, as the report has highlighted. It is also striking that the benefits of energy policy are largely felt by people with higher incomes and businesses. The whole of society has an interest in the energy transition. How do we ensure that everyone in society can benefit from the energy transition? The sustainability of a house results in a lot, such as a lower energy bill and more living comfort. People living in a rental house see the energy costs rise, but cannot decide for themselves about making the house more sustainable. The key is with the housing corporations. But we see that the objective of the energy agreement has gone far beyond sight. By removing the landlord's tax and targeted agreements with the corporations on, among other things, zero-on-the-meter housing, the ChristianUnion wants to accelerate the sustainability of social housing. According to the Minister, 200,000 homes need to be preserved every year. How's he gonna get that number? Higher incomes make four times more use of sustainable subsidies. How is it that many people do not know the way to sustainable subsidies and citizens' initiatives? Is the Minister prepared to better organise grants and loans for people with smaller wallets? Building-related financing can be a solution for property owners who opt for high investment costs. The House has also adopted a motion by my group, among other things. In particular, owners' associations face many obstacles. Will the Minister make it possible to experiment with building-related funding quickly? The Minister has announced that he wants to get rid of the mandatory gas connection. That's really good news. But right now, a house buyer who doesn't want a gas connection sees his house price rise by sometimes €3,000, because the costs are passed on to him. Does the Minister consider this to be unfair? And is he willing to talk to network operators and municipalities about this? The Christian Union wants to correct the imbalance in the energy tax and transform it into a CO tax that is eventually shifted from the user to the source. We also want to increase the energy tax for large consumers. For example, in municipalities heat grids do not come off the ground due to low retail prices. As a result, there is no incentive for the heat transition. Does the Minister know these examples? And does he agree with me that the incentive should be there? My final point is to involve residents in the plans for wind farms. Let neighbors be co-owners and let them also benefit from the benefits. This increases the level of support and distributes the financial benefits more fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	Mr Bosman has today committed himself to interfering with everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	It's a pleasure to meet you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	It is a beautiful subject and an important subject. It's got my heart, too, and I think it's everybody's. I heard Mrs Dik-Faber say that the landlord levy can be removed so that the corporations can make the houses more sustainable. But it is a shame that these housing corporations are still making big profits, which really still make a lot of money and do not use that money to make social housing more sustainable, which is precisely their role. In the report they still count with a label E-house. You can imagine that the energy costs will rise out of control. Then it is impossible for us to abolish the landlord's tax and say: you will get even more money; make even more profit? That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	My answer is twofold. We have the energy agreement. In it, agreements have been made to which the housing corporations must comply. I agree with Mr Bosman that housing corporations really need to take steps to make the existing housing stock more sustainable. At the moment, I cannot see whether the resources are sufficient. I think housing corporations should stick to the agreements anyway, but there is still a long way to go. If we also want to finance it in the long term to get all those homes to zero-on-the-meter, then we simply need more. To this end, we could use the instrument that the Christian Union has included in its electoral programme: abolishing the landlord levy. We have to make firm agreements with the housing corporations, so that they use them to make the housing stock more sustainable. So our approach is twofold; it runs along two tracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think we can get very close together, but I would not start with abolishing the landlord's tax. There's still plenty of money. Let them just use that to start with the whole housing stock. If we see in the course of time that more is needed, we can always use this instrument. But I don't think it's wise to say that the landlord's tax can be taken off, so they can start using it. And then the incentive to make things more sustainable is missing. I hope the Christian Union agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	Mr Bosman is now aggregating the element of money. I also really think that the housing corporations should take a step forward. I see now that there are tenants who want their home to be preserved, but cannot put solar panels on the roof, because it is not their roof. There are tenants who want double glazing in their homes, but do not have or cannot have the investment capacity, because it is not their home. We are talking about money, but let us also really look at the instruments to seduce housing corporations to do the right thing, because the task is great. The tenants really want it, but the housing corporations don't get over it. We agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	Mr. Chairman. I am very glad that we are discussing this issue today. The fight against climate change must go hand in hand with combating inequality, both in the Netherlands and globally. That's what GroenLinks says. For GroenLinks this is self-evident, but it is not self-evident. This is clear from the CE Delft report on fair climate policy. Environmental taxation must be based on the polluter pays principle. This means that current policies, for example, where large consumers pay much less energy taxes, must change. Where people with lower incomes are relatively hard hit by climate policy, they need to be compensated at another point. This can also be done through income tax, through benefits and through targeted subsidies. The importance of such a broad income policy is also underlined in the CE Delft report. Among other things, it is proposed to compensate the lowest income groups through income tax for their energy costs and to increase the payment of large consumers. This combines climate policy and social justice. Does the Minister agree with me that these are interesting proposals? And will the Minister consider the proposals contained in the report? The fight against climate change also has a huge potential for the creation of full-fledged jobs. For example, it is a huge boost for the number of jobs in the construction sector, but also for installation technicians. We lack installers while jobs in fossil energy will disappear elsewhere. Unfortunately, vocational education does not seem sufficiently pre-sorted. In this respect, we can really do much better in the Netherlands: by providing adequate retraining, by providing guidance from work to work, but also by encouraging the Dutch sustainable sector, so that we can really benefit from this job growth here too. How are we going to achieve targets for the development of green industry from the energy agreement? Energy saving in social housing is lagging behind. This has already been done by my colleagues. This hits these people particularly hard because their energy costs are higher. According to the National Energy Exploratory, average label B in the social rental sector is not expected to reach its target by 2020. Why isn't this working out yet? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that people in social housing also reap the benefits of the energy transition by making these homes more energy efficient? ECM research shows that customised energy advice is a very effective tool to prevent energy poverty, both for the climate and for the wallet. Would the Minister consider specific policies to help people from the lower income groups with energy-saving measures? Finally, everyone should be able to benefit from their own energy generation. However, for this to happen, people with lower incomes must make investments that they cannot yet make. Also, low income people often do not have their own roof or garden for solar panels because, for example, they live in a flat. It would be good if these people received support for this. What additional possibilities does the Minister see for this, for example in the form of earmarked subsidies in the SDE?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	I heard the enthusiasm of GroenLinks about redistributing, subsidies and taxes for companies. Isn't that an invitation to an open-ended climate transition scheme? Isn't it much better to say we have to bring the prices down, because it's better for everyone? Shouldn't we limit costs rather than say that it doesn't matter what it costs, because we redistribute and socialize the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	I do not know when Mr Bosman heard me say that it does not matter what it costs. You have to make it clear, both in the Netherlands and internationally, that the consequences of climate policy are the worst felt by the poorest. In a fair climate policy, it is indeed a question of redistribution. You have to make sure that the people most affected are compensated. But we must also be ambitious with climate policy, because otherwise the costs will be much greater. In the Energy Council this morning we discussed the need for binding energy measures in Europe. The longer we wait, the more expensive it gets. As far as we are concerned, there is urgency on both elements of the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	The interesting thing is that the development of wind at sea is going to be repeated again, because I hear very little about this party receiving EUR 0 subsidy. It is said: the longer we wait, but I think it is now being used firmly. It is precisely these developments that form the basis for the sustainability and improvement of energy supply. This will control costs and improve everyone's interests: for businesses and industry as well as for individuals, especially those with lower incomes. Doesn't Mrs Kröger agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	Mr Bosman must know that these energy parks at sea are now cost-effective because we have given subsidies for them at the beginning. When you want to start an innovation or transition, you need an active government, a government with guts, ambition and vision, that dares to invest in sustainable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you. Mr Bosman, please stand down, because Mrs Mulder is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. I look forward to hearing Mr Bosman's questions from the VVD. We have wholeheartedly supported the request for this debate. In recent years, the CDA has continuously commented on rising the energy bill for the lowest incomes and the importance of participation and renewable energy projects. In the autumn of 2013 in the debate on the energy agreement, I said: it must be done from the bottom up. Now we are almost four years further and I still say that, fortunately with more support in the House of Representatives. In future energy policy, we need our citizens very badly. They must be involved in the far-reaching measures and have a view of a fair distribution of desires and burdens. The CDA wants to prevent residents who are unable to isolate their homes or place solar panels on their roofs from being burdened with heavier burdens. A family with its own house with solar panels does not pay for storage renewable energy, which it might want because it also wants to contribute to wind at sea. Often the people who use the scheme have a very positive picture of wind at sea, but they do not pay for it. That's really weird, isn't it? Residents with a small wallet and a social rental house will pay for it. For these people, it is more difficult to do so. We already know that storage of renewable energy will continue to increase in the coming years. For these households, we need to focus on the sustainability of housing corporations. In our election programme, the CDA is making money available for that. We should also look at how we can reach those people who have less to spend through subsidies and loans for energy saving. Other colleagues in the Chamber also took note of this. What does the Minister think about that? How's he gonna do that? The energy bill also goes up for small and medium-sized enterprises. Is it possible to allow SMEs to benefit from an adapted netting scheme, which is fairer? To what extent has the Minister examined the possibilities for this? The future energy policy requires support. This will require opportunities for participation in renewable energy projects, in addition to manageable costs. The CDA wants governments and initiators to be obliged to take part in decision-making and take advantage of wind energy projects. We have already tabled amendments to the Environment Act, together with our colleague Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union. In addition, we see residents in energy cooperatives who find each other and work together in their neighbourhood for a sustainable future. We see that for energy cooperatives the first step, the creation and the business plan, is the most difficult. For the first finances they are often dependent on the municipality, but not every municipality has a budget and knowledge to support energy cooperatives. This is why the Renewable Energy Organisation is calling for a development facility for energy cooperatives. The question to the Minister is whether he wants to think along with them on this. The CDA therefore wants a better regime for renewable energy cooperatives, because the postcode rose scheme remains extremely complex and the Tax Administration is not known for its co-thinking. Let's make a separate arrangement for cooperatives in the SDE+. We would like to hear whether the Minister is open to the amendment we are proposing. And now I am very curious about Mr Bosman's question from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	He's gonna get rid of that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	Well, hey!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	Too bad. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	Mr. Chairman. Climate policy will lead to a caste of climate paupers, de Volkskrant headlined on 25 April. Gee, what a surprise! We didn't see that coming. Apparently, this journalist from the Volkskrant has been sleeping for the past few years. The PVV has repeatedly warned about this in every energy debate, but was almost always alone in it. Even before the energy agreement, when the storage of renewable energy was introduced, better known as the windmill tax, the PVV warned against this assassin of a tax that will cost families hundreds of euros a year within a few years. We were choked off, also by the applicant for this debate, the SP. In fact, as we have just reported, thanks to the SP, this cabinet has in recent years committed more than 20 billion in subsidies to the SDE+; grant commitments that will return to the energy bill, in particular low incomes and middle incomes, in the coming years through the storage of renewable energy. If they are smart, the higher incomes place a few windmills on their estate or fill their roof with solar panels, creating their own exemption thanks to the netting scheme. This canal belt subsidy was also intended by the PVV to abolish an amendment in 2013, but this was also voted down. If people did not want to believe the PVV, they could simply have looked at our neighbour Germany. That country is one of the frontrunners in the energy transition, with the result that households there pay the highest energy bill in Europe. That is where the term 'Energy poverty' has become commonplace, because hundreds of thousands of households can no longer pay their energy bills. Oh, and that without any reduction in CO emissions produced by electricity production. Hundreds of billions poorer and zero CO results: count out your profits. All this is just the beginning, because the real blowers are still coming. After all, we are only at 5.9% renewable energy in the Netherlands. According to this government policy, this will continue to grow to 16% in 2023. As the windmill tax is only charged when renewable energy is produced, this tax will triple quickly. But we are not there yet either, because the consequences of the Paris agreement for the Netherlands have not yet been taken into account. As the Secretary of State at the VAO Environment Council last week said, that's gonna hurt, more than people think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	Is Mr Van Aalst aware of the reports of, for example, the Stern Commission on the social costs that climate change will entail, which in particular affect lower income groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	We are talking today about the burden of imposing this energy tax. The PVV believes that we should leave this to the market and stop subsidising this renewable energy. If anyone wants a solar panel, that's fine, but he'll pay for it himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr Van Aalst is not answering my question. My question is whether Mr Van Aalst knows that not having a climate policy and therefore not promoting renewable energy brings incredibly high social costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	Once again, we are talking here today about energy policy and what this does to the energy bill of all people in the Netherlands. We have requested a debate on climate policy, where this point will be addressed. We will indeed hear that the many billions that we are putting into climate policy do not give us anything at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	I hear Mr Van Aalst rightfully pissing himself off about energy poverty. I fully agree with him on this point. It is impossible for so many people to live in energy poverty. We're looking for solutions. Maybe Mr. Van Aalst can come with us. My proposal is to carry out a joint investigation into this. Is not one of the solutions that we can ensure that people can save energy? After all, fossil energy also costs money. Should we not therefore ensure that people can save energy? Shouldn't we make the houses more sustainable? Do we not need this climate policy to ensure that the energy poverty which Mr Van Aalst and I hate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	It is precisely in order to stop this energy poverty that we must stop subsidising renewable energy in this way. Through these subsidies we have to tax companies extra, which is at the expense of jobs, or tax the inhabitants of the Netherlands extra, which means that we have to deal with energy poverty. We'll see that people just can't afford it anymore. The SP Group should not want that either. It is also the supporters of the SP that is being overloaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	Mr Van Aalst's solution to stop energy poverty is to stop renewable energy. This means that we must continue to use fossil energy. As a resident of the quake area in Groningen, I want to stop that fossil energy. Does Mr Van Aalst really not want to help the inhabitants of the Netherlands to use less energy? Does he really not want to reduce the energy consumption of people who are now in poverty and who live in a social housing facility? Why does Mr Van Aalst exclude this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	I have just made it clear that storage in the form of energy taxes makes it priceless. If people want renewable energy, that's fine, but we have to leave it to the people themselves. The government shouldn't interfere with that. By doing this kind of thing, billions are being pumped into it every time, while we only see the energy charges go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	People need heat and electricity. Does the PVV want to remain dependent on oil sheiks and gas barons? Does the PVV want to leave the people in Groningen in the cold? Or does the PVV choose energy transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	The PVV simply opts for fossil fuels. There are many technological developments in this area. That's what we're waiting for. We see that these developments are continuing. We, too, cannot look into a glass sphere, but at the moment there are enough fossil fuels available to provide energy for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	In this debate, it has become clear that PVV wants to keep oil sheiks and gas barons standing and to continue to finance, but that it is abandoning the people of Groningen. That seems to me to be a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	No, that's bullshit. There are coal power stations in the Netherlands. Mrs Dik has chosen to close those coal plants. We say that there are enough fossil fuels in the Netherlands to provide us with energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	Madam President. Sustainable development is part of the three-part process and I say it neatly in Dutch people, the environment and efficiency. The environment is given the necessary attention, apart from all kinds of implementation problems, but we must not lose sight of the human and economic elements. The billions of euros that will be invested in wind farms in the coming years and in alternative energy sources that need to be developed must come from somewhere. It is therefore good that there is an analysis of Committed to the Environment, the company that made the global assessment of the income effects and provided the report that is ahead. Energy and climate measures have a major impact on household books of low-income households. This also applies to Jan Modaal to a lesser extent. If energy costs for these households increase fivefold over the next 30 years, it will be fairly fair and, to put it mildly, quite decent. Those people are unable to invest much in energy saving or green electricity production, in order to benefit from subsidy schemes and tax benefits. It is much more difficult for them to avoid these additional burdens. As far as we're concerned, we shouldn't let that happen. I would therefore like to focus on two points. First of all... Purchasing power calculations are regularly made for policy measures to be taken. Is it true that they do not really take into account the fact that in the coming years more and more energy costs are being placed on the table of households, not through energy taxes but through energy prices, or the fact that lower incomes are more difficult to circumvent than higher incomes? In other words, is the government prepared to ensure that the indirect effects of energy policy on purchasing power are also properly reflected? Is the cabinet prepared to consider how lower incomes on the left or on the right can also be met politically, for example by a higher tax-free rate in energy taxes? I acknowledge that we are pursuing income policy. But we must also bear in mind this in the foreseeable increase in energy costs for the benefit of the lowest-paid in society. Secondly, a short-term proposal. In several cities there are projects where energy coaches visit households with a minimum income to see how they can save energy. Research by the company Energy Research Centre Netherlands shows that this is very effective. The knife cuts both ways: less energy consumption and a lower energy bill. Is the Minister prepared to consider how this initiative can be extended? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you very much, Mr Bishop. I give the floor to the Minister, who can answer directly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	Thank you, Madam President. The spokespersons, with the exception of Mr Van Aalst, have expressed their support for efforts to tackle climate change and the transition to renewable energy. That's important. With the Paris climate agreement, to which we are committed, 194 countries in the world have recognised the problem and said that it needs to be addressed. The global temperature increase should be limited to well below 2°C. We should even try to limit it to 1.5°C. We have already anticipated this in the Netherlands, in line with the European directive, which told us to make the transition to renewable energy. Our coalition agreement is very ambitious in this respect. We have been able to translate this into an energy agreement, in which all the parties concerned have given their support and confirmed the agreements in the government agreement. As far as the target is concerned, this would result in 14% renewable energy by 2020 and 16% by 2023. Cost control is a very large subject. Mr Bosman referred to this a few times, both in his contribution and in the questioning of his fellow speakers. I fully agree with him that it starts with cost control. It is good to see how we are doing in the Netherlands with regard to energy cost control. Let me give the Chamber some figures. First of all, I would like to mention the price of electricity for consumers. First of all, let me say something about consumers, electricity and gas, after which I come to businesses, electricity and gas. How do we manage costs in the Netherlands? The electricity price for consumers in the Netherlands is €0.20 per kilowatt hour. In Germany it is €0.30 per kilowatt hour; that is one and a half times as much. In Belgium it is €0.24 per kilowatt hour. The price of electricity for consumers has increased by 25% in Europe as a whole in the seven years between 2008 and 2015, but by 9% in the Netherlands. The gas price increased by 13% in Europe over the same period, between 2008 and 2015, but by 1% in the Netherlands. At the same time, we have the most reliable energy supply in Europe, almost worldwide. We are in the top three of the world in terms of the reliability of our energy supply. In recent years, therefore, we have achieved very particular results in the reduction and reduction of costs. Now let's look at the companies and the industry. In 2015, the average electricity price for industry in the Netherlands was €0.08 per kilowatt hour. In Europe, this is €0,107 per kilowatt hour. This difference is important for industry because it has to compete partly on the basis of the costs it incurs for electricity. The great success of the Netherlands as Europe's most competitive economy and one of the world's strongest exporters is supported by what is happening here, namely a lower average electricity price. I come now to the development of the electricity price in Europe for industry. In the seven-year period I have just mentioned, that price has risen by 18%. In the Netherlands, it has fallen by 11%. The gas price for industry in Europe has remained stable over that seven years, as gas prices in the world have stopped rising as a result of a large supply of gas. In the Netherlands, the gas price for industry fell by 11%. For industry, therefore, there is also a great deal of cost control. The point made by Mr Bosman is something that has been given great attention in recent years in this cabinet, and also in the years before, and with great success. A number of spokesmen expressed their views on the increasing energy costs for households. Mr Van Aalst spoke of a murderer, the ODE, but others also spoke of it in strong terms. I compare the energy costs for an average household in 2015 with what will come in 2020. It was €1.656 in 2015 and €1.625 in 2020. So that is lower, and that includes storage of renewable energy. So you can see that in the next three and a half years, compared to two years ago, there is no question of an assassin doing all kinds of damage, but that there is a reduction in the energy bill, including that ODE. You can go back even further with comparison. I took the year 2005, 10 years further back. Then the average household paid €1.856. I have just said that this will be €1.625 per year in 2020. Then you talk about everything: electricity, gas, storage and renewable energy, so everything. Compared to 15 years ago, a few hundred euros per average household will be cheaper by 2020. That's what we're talking about. I think it is good to have those facts in a row before we come to conclusions that would be contrary to them. Mrs Beckerman said that there is and is not a fair policy. I dare to doubt that. She talked about companies and people who would be opposed to each other. What companies have to pay, they ultimately pass on to the cost. In the end, people are also the last customer of the products. In the end, they have to pay the price of the products, including the price of the energy. So if you want to do good for the people, you have to try to limit both the bill they have to pay directly and the bill they get through the companies for their account. We both do. "Climate paupers"? I do not know what that is about, here in the Netherlands, especially in the light of the figures I have just mentioned. Moreover, we pay a great deal of attention to this every year. Mr Bishop was wondering whether the purchasing power figures we make only look at taxes. Of course it isn't. Anything relevant to the purchasing power of various income groups is included in the purchasing power figures. Each year you look at how that works out when you draw up the budget; I have never seen it differently. Then you're going to correct where it's deemed politically desirable. If for certain groups, for example for low-income people, therefore, this is not about the energy bill, because I have just indicated that it is going down somewhere a problem arises, it shows that the final purchasing power figures. So you're going to correct that. Within this group of low incomes we often look at the different components of that group and then we take measures to do so. This is also in line with what CE Delft recommends. CE Delft says that energy developments reach different groups in different ways. If you want to correct correctly there, you can do so by wiping everything together once a year in the purchasing power figures. There you can do the things you think are politically desirable. That is exactly what we are doing. I think that's a very fair policy. As a result, we also prevent the emergence of climate-paupers, welfare spaupers or social rental pages. This is not the case in the Netherlands. We deal with this in a very neat way, because the people on lower incomes are just as nice to us as the people on middle incomes or higher incomes. Mrs Beckerman said climate change does not wait for the cabinet formation. That is why we have been extremely busy with climate change over the past four and a half years. We've done a lot of things about that. Before Mrs Beckerman was present, we had 130 debates on this in the Chamber. So we are working on this; we really are not waiting for the cabinet formation. Mrs Beckerman says that there should be a parliamentary committee of inquiry. That is the decision of the Chamber itself; I have no opinion on it. I'll leave that to the Chamber. Mr Wassenberg indicated that climate change leads to desertification or floods. In my view, these are the two extremes. You're happy living in between. Anyway, he tried in a few words to show that he believes that this is a serious and big problem that needs a lot of political attention. I fully agree with him on this point, as I agreed with him at that time in the recent debates in which he has participated in the Chamber. He says the polluter has to pay for the emissions. Of course, if you use extra energy, you have to pay. You have to pay the price of that energy anyway, but you also have to pay the storage that comes on top of that, the energy tax ODE. That's how it works. But we need to be aware of the relationship between low and high incomes. Fortunately, in the Netherlands we have very little poverty and also very limited income inequality, compared to almost all other countries in the world. But if you have a low income, you need a large part of your money for the basic needs: rent, electricity and gas, water, and nowadays the mobile phone might also be part of that. So for those basic needs, you need a big part of your income. If you have a higher income, as that income is higher, you have more money for other things as well. The basic expenditure that each person has to spend on rent and electricity represents a smaller proportion of total expenditure in the case of higher incomes. That's a fact. It's never gonna be any different. That's nowhere else in the whole world. In the end, what matters is how it works out for the low-income people. And then it's so beautiful that in this country every year is guarded and corrected if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	When I was talking about the fact that large consumers pay less than small consumers, of course I was not talking about the absolute price, but about the price they pay per unit of energy per kWh. The Minister himself has just said that large companies that consume a lot pay much less for their electricity than the small consumer. That's one. Then two. One of the points is that people who live in social housing, for example, have much more difficulty in isolating their homes, because it is not property or because the landlord has difficulty in doing so. So there are several factors. We're talking averages. But when it comes to citizens, you can not only point to the averages, because there are very wealthy people, there are people who use awfully much, perhaps 8,000 kWh, but there are also the little ones and therefore also the people who have a badly isolated house and who are forced to have a higher energy bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	I'll come back to the social rentals later. Mr Wassenberg focuses on what I have said about the price that must be paid now on the companies. I think that's good. It is true that we in the Netherlands have large industrial companies using a lot of energy paying a lower price for energy. Mr Wassenberg is right about that. I can put an end to that tomorrow, but then the day after tomorrow Tata is closed, then the restart of ALDEL in Groningen, which has now taken place, is in vain and the company closes, as well as the large zinc smelter in Bladel. I can name 20 other companies that are all closing down. The products, for example Tata's steel, are still taken by Tata's customers, only they are no longer from IJmuiden, but from China. The same applies to all the other products. You will see that in the Netherlands employment is destroyed and then the products are made elsewhere in the world, where they produce much less energy-efficient, much less economical and much less responsible than we do in the Netherlands. On balance, the global climate is the loser. So that would be a very strange approach. We ensure that in those places where industry has to compete on the world market, we maintain the level playing field. If other places in the world deal with the level of energy prices in a certain way, that is a fact for us. We try to make agreements on this in an international context in order to change that. We do, and we are slowly achieving results. But in the meantime, I'm not gonna let Tata and those other 20 companies break down. I do not do that because it eliminates employment and does not make the world any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	The Minister is now making it a complete caricature. His party colleague, Bosman, has just asked me whether I want these subsidies abolished today in the morning. At that time, I said that that is not realistic. Today is 15 June and nobody expects all these subsidies to be abolished on 16 June. I know that, and the Minister knows that. So that's not the point at all. What matters is that the Minister has also said that the prices paid by industry in the Netherlands are even lower than in other European countries. Of course, that's very bad. Then you can see that there are so many subsidies in it that the polluting and energy-consuming industries are much cheaper to attract. I'd like to question that. In the end, I want to put an end to this, not from today to tomorrow, but let us start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	'Not from today to tomorrow', says Mr Wassenberg, but I guarantee him that at the time we say that we are releasing the level playing field in the Netherlands for industry and energy-intensive companies and we are going to raise the prices for them, by the international conglomerates that have companies like Tata in the Netherlands, is no longer being invested. They'll be investing somewhere else. Mr Van Aalst spoke of an assassin in a place where that was not justified, but then you will get a murderer here. It is very important that we maintain the level playing field in our transition from fossil to renewable energy, that we do not destroy the jobs of people in the Netherlands and that we do not replace the energy-efficient and responsible production that is taking place in the Netherlands with much less responsible and less energy-efficient production elsewhere in the world. That's the point I'm making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	I will continue on this same point. It is difficult to talk about a level playing field when there is such an inequality between the electricity price that any consumer or small business has to pay and the prices paid by large consumers. I understand the concerns expressed by the Minister, but my question is whether there are any other measures that can be taken to ensure that the energy-intensive industry pays a fair energy price so that you encourage them to consume less, but also to take more energy-saving measures by giving them a financial incentive to do so. Then you achieve the same thing in another way, but the price becomes fairer and the companies are really encouraged to save energy. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	Certainly, what Mrs Kröger says must be done. There are two things going on with the energy-intensive companies. Firstly, we have a covenant with the companies. According to that covenant, which contains firm agreements, they would use less energy. Every company in the group of energy-intensive companies in the Netherlands would use less energy on the basis of this covenant. In the meantime, we have agreed with them that we are making this covenant very hard. This means that it is no longer a matter of agreements but of commitments made by companies to the public authorities. Secondly, we agreed that there should be nine more petajoule. That was also agreed in the energy agreement, but it has been perceived by energy-intensive companies as very problematic. They say they have to do so much already and that this will come up again. I understand that, but it is a pity that they made that agreement and I am keeping everyone's commitments, including the energy-intensive industry. The nine petajoule per farm has now been completed; it sets out how much they need to save on energy consumption to contribute to that nine petajoule. I put pressure on them in this way, through energy saving. I think this can be done, because we are already very far away from energy efficiency and we are already doing a lot of innovation. I think that our companies can accept this in a responsible way, but what I do not want is for their competitiveness to be affected through prices. I am happy if we in the Netherlands have a good deal of work going on in the Netherlands. We have good production and networks, and because we have little overhead and no big profits, we can deliver to these big companies at a competitive price, and with that we can get rid of the companies on the world market. If I am going to artificially increase prices, which means that companies are losing their position on the world market and jobs are being lost, I am not happy at all. So I don't want to do that. The line Mrs Kröger puts in to do through energy saving is exactly the line of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	In my view, we are not talking about artificially raising prices, but about aligning them or the fact that the prices of energy-intensive industries are artificially low at the moment. It is a question of whether it is fair and understandable that there is such a difference in the energy price. My follow-up question is: if the Minister is concerned about Tata Steel or other energy-intensive companies, isn't stimulating energy savings a much better way to ensure that those companies, if they were planning to do so, wouldn't leave the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	I have just gone into a great deal of detail about the promotion of energy saving. I can't say that any better. Mrs Kröger says that we have kept the price artificially low. The world didn't start in March of this year. For many years we have been meddling in energy. For all kinds of reasons, which have been discussed extensively in the Chamber, the choice has been made to reflect the costs incurred, but also to take into account a level playing field in the world, in the interests of employment and to ensure that efficient Dutch industry makes an optimal contribution to solving the problems in the world. We have chosen to do so. There's a certain division. If I were to change that division, I would be doing something that we did not approve of in the past, which has not been the cabinet policy of the past four and a half years. As a outgoing minister in the last few months of this cabinet period, I am not going to do anything that involves new policies and which, moreover, I believe is very unwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	I fully understand the importance of the Minister when it comes to the economy and employment and the possible relocation of production. The Christian Union does not want that either. However, I can see now that due to the low retail prices, there is actually little incentive to work on heat transition. I hear from municipalities that heat networks are difficult to get off the ground because large consumer tariffs are so low. How else can we deal with that, so that this transition does get off the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	I do not know whether Mrs Dik-Faber's analysis is correct. For the Heat Act, we have put a replacement law into procedure. We know that's not the last answer. A lot more needs to be done in terms of heat. If we want to remove 200,000 houses per year from natural gas and to have all the houses removed from natural gas by 2050, we need to ensure that heat in houses is provided in a very different way. This can be done partly with electricity and partly with heat pumps, but you also have to use part of the heat that is available from the ground, from waste incineration or from industry. There are many things to this, including the aspect mentioned by Mrs Dik-Faber. If we discuss the Heat Act on a subsequent occasion, in this or in the next cabinet period, we can discuss it further. In this debate, which is about the sharing of the burden of energy, I cannot make any commitments about such a part of the heat policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	I understand the latter. Is it possible to inform the Minister of any case-law that I am being presented with, so that he can involve them in the further debate on the Heat Act that we are still getting? It's really signals I'm getting and I'm looking for a way to get the heat transition off the ground and have business involvement without compromising their competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	I am highly recommended for information from Mrs Dik-Faber. I am happy to accept them and will therefore benefit from them in policy preparation. Mr Wassenberg and others have called for attention to be paid to social housing. I believe it was Mrs Beckerman who equated social housing with poverty. Fortunately, that is not how it works in the Netherlands. Social rentals are houses in which you can live for a price that is significantly lower than the price on the free market. Then you will also receive a surcharge at that lower rental price, so that the costs will be printed even further. That is one of the reasons why, if you have a low income in the Netherlands, you still have a good house. Your carrying capacity is taken into account and you can also have a good house with limited carrying capacity. That is the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	I don't have a question, but I want to correct something. I didn't suggest that social housing is equal to poverty. In fact, I'm still a resident of a social housing unit right now. As you know, the SP considers it important that it is mixed in. We just wanted a solution for energy consumption in these homes, because people cannot choose solar panels for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	Mixed housing means that there are also high-income people living in social housing. You can think differently about that, too. I also know that there are people who think that if you have a slightly higher income, you should be a little less dependent on the housing corporation or the government and bear your own burdens. Anyway, I will not go into that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	I'm afraid this is going to be a different discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	In my view, this is a debate which we should not be having here, namely on the dependence of the government. My party is for mixed neighborhoods. Perhaps the Minister could look into the problems that people are currently having to find a good and suitable home. There is a shortage of social housing but it is also difficult to pass through the flex jobs and it is also difficult to get mortgages. It's sad when the Minister puts this away like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	Apparently, Mrs Beckerman has noticed that she has just made a wrong remark, because she was talking about mixed housing in social housing and she is now moving to mixed neighbourhoods, which is quite different. I am prepared to discuss both, but I was not called to the Chamber this afternoon. I also have the problem that my colleague from the Interior and Kingdom Relations is dealing with this and not with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	And we also have a new debate here at four o'clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	That's more of an incentive on your part for me to do it a little quickly. I'll try that, Madam President. As far as the people on lower incomes are concerned, there is the following. If everyone contributes to energy saving, whatever we want, then someone with a higher income and a home will have more freedom of action. Then that person can actually buy things. For a low-income guy who's in a rental house, it's not as easy. That is why it is very important that we have several arrangements for it. Housing corporations are very interested in contributing to energy saving. We also have funds available that housing corporations can use, as far as that would be necessary. Schemes used by individuals with higher incomes and who are therefore not in social housing can also be used by corporations for the benefit of the residents of the housing they rent. These are all things that we have set in motion here. I think it's okay to go through with that. The Secretary of State is also working on this. He has already informed the Chamber about it and I understand that he will soon be discussing it again with the Chamber. I think it is very useful to ensure that this is made available to the people living in those homes through the housing corporations to a sufficient extent. If you live in a flat and you don't have a roof where you can place solar panels, there is the possibility of a joint project in which a large number of people participate. Mrs Mulder mentioned the postcode rose scheme, which is a terribly complicated scheme. This is an arrangement whereby we have brought to a solution every problem that has arisen and which we believe is being used on an increasing scale. Mrs Mulder or Mrs Dik-Faber said that the corporations should meet the people by helping them in the beginning. I think that this cooperative scheme, using the postcode rose scheme, will also allow people living in flats without roofs to make use of the opportunities to generate and benefit financially from renewable energy. We have always supported that. I am also certainly prepared to see whether we can stimulate all these initiatives from the cabinet in the country using the postcode rose scheme for renewable energy cooperative projects at the difficult initial stage. That's what I'm looking at. In the unlikely event that the cabinet formation lasts for a long time, I will certainly discuss this further with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	That was indeed a question on my part. I thank the Minister for this commitment. At what time can he possibly give an initial feedback of the direction in which he thinks, without immediately closing everything so that there is also room for the formation table? Does he want to pick this up by now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	I have to be very careful. I am always available to say: I do this in the fourth quarter; I do this after the summer; I do this at the beginning of the next year. However, I cannot rule over my grave. I think it's useful to go ahead with this, so I'll definitely do that. As soon as I have something concrete to report, either to get it available to the formation table somehow or to share it with the Chamber or perhaps both, I will certainly not fail to do so. However, I am not going to mention any more deadlines in my current missionary position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	Thank you for the commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	Mr Bosman has said a few things which are in fact in line with what I have just said. In addition, he pointed out that he considered it important for companies to be guaranteed investment security. I'll share that with him all the way. If you want companies to do things about renewable energy, and that's what we want, it's absolutely necessary that you give them clarity. The companies have to make choices: they invest in one or the other. If "the other" is renewable energy and the idea arises that there is a different policy every year and that things that have just been promised are different in six months' time, there is simply no investment. It is therefore very crucial for business to create a situation in which investment security is felt. Then we are also prepared to invest. I share that point with Mr Bosman. Mr Bosman said that he is opposed to redistributing income through the energy bill. Mr Bishop had less difficulty with that on this point. I share Mr Bosman's view. I think we have income policies in this country through income tax. It's very wise to do so. In addition, we have all kinds of other taxes. We pay VAT. When I buy a small car on low income, I pay little VAT. When I buy a big car with a very high income, I pay a lot of VAT. In this way, the capacity is often taken into account in terms of expenditure, but that is all indirect. We have a direct income tax. If we think that things need to be corrected, for example for low incomes, then we do so when we draw up the budget, in terms of purchasing power figures. During the past cabinet period the low-income people have improved more than the high-income people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	We see that less spendable residents are less well achieved with our netting scheme and other energy savings options. The question is whether the Minister has considered how to involve more people from that group in this arrangement. Does he have any ideas on how this can be improved? It seems obvious to me that a netting arrangement in any form will continue, even after this cabinet. It's just the question of who benefits from it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	I don't want to talk about that anymore. Political choices must be made about the netting regime. It's not up to me to make those choices anymore. For low-income people, there are three very real facts. The first is what I just said: purchasing power is assessed every year. The second is that housing corporations are very active in this area. They have separate funds available for this. The general regulations, which are available to everyone, allow people to make use of them through the housing associations. The third is that, even if you don't have a roof yourself, you can benefit from it through a cooperative project and using the postcode rose scheme. I think that's how it's gonna happen. In particular, I would like to refer to what Mrs Mulder said earlier: if we do specific interventions in an area, such as land-based windmills, it is very useful to give people in the area an interest in this. It seems logical to me that one way or another you also attract the people in social housing. All this will be further developed in the near future. We will have to wait and see how this will be implemented in the next cabinet period. Mrs Dik-Faber wanted to better organise subsidies for lower incomes. I've already gone into that. Mrs Dik-Faber said there are higher costs in case of non-connection to gas. We say that it is no longer mandatory to connect new houses to gas. Then there's got to be something else. Mrs. Dik-Faber says it's more expensive. That may well be the case, but it is not the case that we can then eliminate those costs. We have also agreed at European level that the real costs incurred by the network companies, for example for the purpose that Mrs Dik-Faber is now talking about, should be passed on. Otherwise, you'll get pollution from the market situation. That is laid down in a directive. We worked that out in a law, too. This means that there is a requirement on how the costs are borne. We're gonna have to stick to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	But who will bear the costs? Homeowners in particular say they're dying to get rid of the gas. That's what we all want. That is a good development, but now homeowners are being burdened with higher costs. It feels a little like punishing good behavior. That's not what we want with each other, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	Costs are being incurred. A new house is being built. There's a bathroom and a kitchen. There's got to be a barn. There's got to be a heat supply in there. You can say: that heat supply costs €3,000 and we don't like that for those people. But the bill has to be paid somehow. You can do that with government subsidies. Then the taxpayers can pay it. You can actually have it paid by taxpayers through the Storage of Renewable Energy. But I think that's weird. I think that if something new is being built, all the costs that are being incurred will eventually have to be borne by those who make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	I'm gonna chew on what the Minister tells me. I still miss the developers in this whole story. What is their role in this whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	If we say that we don't want homes on the gas anymore and, for starters, we take off the obligation to connect them to gas and we also want to remove 200,000 houses per year from the gas, then we can't just put the bill somewhere, not even with developers. "Project developers" is not a dirty word either. These are people who, within the framework of the law, are doing something that society needs, namely developing a particular project. That could be a place to live. But to pay the bill for the heat supply of a house to them and not to the user of the facility... The reasonableness of that escapes me. When you place an account with companies, the account ends up with the customers of the product in one way or another. It's always like that. Mrs Dik-Faber raised the issue of energy taxation for large consumers. I've already gone into that. People have been asked to co-owner the residents by wind on land. I have already mentioned this, also in response to what Mrs Mulder has said on that point. Mrs Kröger wants to compensate people with lower incomes. She also referred to CE Delft's report. What CE Delft ultimately advises is exactly what the cabinet is doing every year. Mrs Kröger was concerned about job growth in the energy agreement. That is not necessary, because we agreed in the Energy Agreement that 90,000 jobs would be created. Those 90,000 jobs are going to be added, because we're already above schedule. This new employment is going very hard. The housing for low-income people is helping to save energy: that is what I have been talking about. Boosting our own energy production: we therefore have a number of incentive schemes for this. Mrs Kröger said: you should also use the SDE+ to do something about it. As far as I am concerned, we are not going to do that, because the SDE+ is intended for more large-scale projects and is not intended to favour some forms of energy generation over others. It is true that with the SDE+ we want to contribute to the control of costs. That's what we've been talking about. That's important. I also hope that, at the beginning of my term, we have been able to establish that we have succeeded very well in recent years. Mrs Kröger also mentioned the development facility for corporations. What I have said about this is... No, I have now come to Mrs Mulder's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	Two questions. My first question concerns the instrument of tailor-made energy advice. You can see in practice that energy-saving measures are not accessible enough for some groups or that people do not know enough about them. Are there more opportunities to reach groups with customised energy advice that are not yet doing enough to save energy? My second question concerns the SDE+. Is it possible to identify part of that scheme for energy cooperatives and groups of people who currently have less access to such a scheme? Is that a way to ensure that much more is used under the renewable energy schemes? This question is, by the way, in line with Mrs Mulder's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	The SDE+ scheme is ideally unsuitable to take into account people on low incomes and that kind of thing. That's not what this arrangement is for. This is because we have said that we want to save 14% to 16% and then we want to save a lot more fossil energy. This energy must be produced and we must now build a new infrastructure. That costs a lot of money, but we want that to be as little extra money as possible. Therefore, the different forms of renewable energy must compete with each other. To stimulate this and to achieve that great ambition for those rising percentages, we have the SDE+. There is absolutely no way in which I can say in this regulation what Mrs Kröger is proposing. I'm not willing to do that either. Furthermore, Mrs Kröger says that you should pay more attention to energy tailored to your needs. It is difficult to send someone to every household in the Netherlands to talk about energy customised. I do believe that Mrs Kröger's intention is a legitimate one and that we should also consider how we can implement it. This means that we need to have such information available, not only for people with their own home but also for people living in rental homes. They should all be encouraged to participate and thus be informed about the opportunities to participate. People should also be supported. If it is necessary, it should also be discussed with them, for example in the form of talks with energy coaches. We are looking at how to do that and I agree with Mrs Kröger's line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	It is good to hear that the Minister agrees with a line where people get customised energy advice. We therefore hope to be informed about the way in which this is implemented and how this type of energy advice can be tailored. I still have a question about the SDE+ scheme. I understand that this is about large-scale investment. However, you can also stimulate a lot locally, for example through energy corporations. That is also a way of achieving large scale. My question therefore did not mean that individual solar panels should be covered by the SDE+. I am concerned with the energy corporations that can generate energy on a larger scale, but locally and from the bottom up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	That's it. That is exactly what Mrs Kröger is saying. We have three different arrangements. The first is purely individual. It's about the netting behind the meter. This is a very favourable arrangement for people who meet their electricity needs with solar panels on their own roof. This is a very favourable arrangement which is very stimulating. Then you have the postcode rose scheme, a term that has become established. This is a scheme that encourages people who want to work on energy projects cooperatively. We've been very busy with that for the past four and a half years. We set up that arrangement first. Then we have always looked at the problems encountered when we want to make use of this system and how we can eliminate them. So that's the second rule. The third scheme is the SDE+. This is more for large-scale energy supply, where you have to achieve high objectives and therefore also have to compete with each other in the best possible way. Across the board, from individual to large scale, there are therefore facilities available to stimulate it. I have already touched on the various points raised by Mrs Mulder. She said you need to support the energy cooperative with a development facility. I have already responded to that, and Mrs Mulder has done so. Mr Van Aalst says that renewable energy is all bullshit. We have often heard his predecessor say that. I would say that the dogs bark and the caravan continues, Mr Van Aalst. If 194 countries in the world come together and say that there is a big problem, then you can stand there and say that nothing is wrong, but we really can't do much with that. We believe that the Paris agreement is a very valid agreement and that something must be done. We must achieve this transition in the interests of the people of the Netherlands and the people of the world. That's what we're all working on. You said the ODE was an assassin. I have already indicated at the beginning what the real facts are. Mr Bishop spoke about purchasing power calculations. That's what I've been working on. The issue of energy coaches was also raised in particular by Mr Bishop. What I have just said about this is also a reaction to his contribution to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	Let us now move on to the second term of office. Speaking time is one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	Mr. Chairman. I will only use the second term for filing my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government, as well as several political parties, supported the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[Considering that an ambitious climate policy is necessary to achieve the objectives of the agreement;]] [[considers that support for this is indispensable;]] [[calls on the Commission to set up a committee of inquiry to examine the distribution of climate policy's lusts and burdens and the possibilities of achieving a fair energy transition;]] [[calls on the Bureau to make proposals on the design and form of the research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion, which is handwritten with the pen. I hope the Griffin can read my handwriting. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that energy-intensive companies pay less per energy unit than private individuals;]] [[Whereas prices for large consumers of energy are kept low by subsidies and tax advantages;]] [[noting that energy prices for Dutch industry are substantially lower than the European average;]] [[points out that it is undesirable for energy-intensive industries not to pay the polluter/sponsor of CO, but to pay the taxpayer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Van Veldhoven motion c.s. (34199, No. 76) and the motion for a resolution (30196, No. 491) requests for space to experiment with building-related funding, but that pilots using the experimental space deemed necessary have not yet been launched;]] [[noting that the building-related funding working group has been given the space to experiment with pilots as part of the task;]] [[Whereas private property owners, either separately or in vve context, with a lack of sufficient private funding space are now unable to achieve sustainability and renovation to zero-on-the-meter housing;]] [[calls on the government to call on the working group to launch pilot projects with building-related financing of sustainable housing and vve's by the end of the year and (if not sufficiently available) to enable the necessary experimental space for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	My second motion is very brief. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 80% of sustainable tax reductions and subsidies are paid to people with the highest incomes;]] [[calls on the Government to make tax rebates, subsidies and loans more accessible to people with little or no investment space,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for answering all our questions. I hope that we will often talk about a fair and good climate policy here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas people with poorly isolated homes have a huge benefit from taking simple energy savings measures;]] [[Whereas simple energy saving measures are often overlooked;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that people with poorly isolated homes are proactively informed about simple and inexpensive ways of saving energy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	The Minister has indicated that he is already in the process of shaping this policy. We look forward to seeing that. This motion shows what we think this policy should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the need for a fair distribution of requirements and burdens in energy policy;]] [[Whereas our inhabitants are badly needed in the transition to a sustainable energy supply;]] [[calls on the government to make it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects by helping energy cooperatives to start up and ensure that residents can take shares in wind energy projects at sea,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Beckerman, Mr Van Veldhoven, Mr Kröger, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Bisschop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32813-143]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	We've just heard from the minister that he thinks it's up to another cabinet to look at the netting arrangement. I also asked the Minister how we could allow smaller SMEs to benefit from a netting scheme. Maybe that's already been investigated. If he has any information on this, I can imagine that he will give it to the parties at the negotiating table or that he will share it with the Chamber. To what extent has this been investigated? In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to the start-up phase. The motion I have just tabled goes one step further and also wants to see how residents can participate in wind-on-sea projects. For example, we see in Friesland that people can participate in the project on the IJsselmeer. We would also like that for wind-on-sea projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	The final motions are now being copied. We'll wait until they've been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. I have already said to Mrs Beckerman that I do not consider this to be the case. The request is addressed to the Chamber, so I leave it to the Chamber as well. The motion in part No. 139 by Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Beckerman is a handwritten motion. It is said that it is undesirable for energy-intensive industries not to pay the polluter/sponsor of CO, but to pay the taxpayer. The motion refers to subsidies and tax advantages given to large consumers. I don't know anything about subsidies being given. I do know that we apply lower taxes for large consumers, the energy-intensive industry. That is because I do not want employment to disappear from the Netherlands. Mr Wassenberg does not want the taxpayer to take the fall, but that is often also the employee. If it receives a benefit, it depends on the capacity of the government to pay that benefit. I think it would be very unwise for us to drive the large basic industries out of our country by increasing the price of energy while they are competing with the whole world. The motion in part No. 139 I don't recommend. The motion in part No. 140 by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kröger. The motion calls on the government in a working group to insist that pilot projects be launched this year with building-related financing of sustainable housing and VVEs, and that the necessary experimental space be made available. It is really a motion where I think about lobbyists, but that will be on me. It is very detailed, although it has not yet been so discussed in the debate. Nevertheless, I will try to respond to it as best I can. We have a working group looking at the issue. It is up to the working group itself to decide whether to propose pilot projects. We do not say in advance that the working party should come up with pilots. The working group is going to work and will look at what it ultimately wants to propose and get it done. The motion calls for more experimental space. The Energy Transition Progress Bill includes a provision for more experimental space. We could have laid that down in the law a long time ago, if it were not for the law in which it was written to be rejected by the First Chamber by one vote majority by the SP among others. But I'm trying to get that experiment room back in as fast as I can. So the Energy Transition Progress Bill already states it. If the Chamber takes up the bill quickly, which is not the case, then we can also quickly get that experimental space done. So instead of a motion, the Chamber would be better placed to deal with the bill. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. In the motion in part No. Mrs Dik-Faber asked the government to make tax rebates, subsidies and loans accessible to people with little or no investment space. There are currently several ways in which people with less investment space can make use of the different schemes. A fund is available, the National Energy Savings Fund. Mr Bosman referred to that. That fund can be used in combination with other grant schemes. I have already said that housing corporations can make use of grant schemes that the tenants cannot use. They can then pass the grant on to the tenants. I don't think the motion adds anything, which is why I'm deceiving it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	Something's not going well. The Minister says the possibilities are there, but they are not used. The report we are discussing today states that 80% of the schemes reach the highest incomes. My point is that we also reach the lowest incomes. Are there any arrangements? If the minister says they're here, how are we going to make sure they actually reach the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	We have just had the debate on this. I have indicated how we are doing this, and I have just reported it again. People with a lower income who are in a social housing unit can be reached through the housing corporation. I also indicated in the debate that there is an arrangement with corporations of which they can be part. On the various possibilities currently available and additional on a suggestion from Mr Bishop, among others, I have said that it is very good to see how to reach and inform people about all possibilities using energy coaches and customised advice, so that they can make the best use of them. That is what we want to achieve. In the motion in part No. 142 by Mrs Kröger, Mr Wassenberg and Mrs Dik-Faber, the government is asked to ensure that people with poorly isolated homes are proactively informed about simple and cheap ways of saving energy. I've just said all the necessary things about that. What's in here is nothing new. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 142. A few weeks ago I sent the Chamber already the Covenant 10 PJ energy saving built environment. Together with the Minister of BZK, energy suppliers, grid operators and energy-saving providers, I have made a scheme to achieve 10 petajoule extra energy savings in the built environment. Part of these agreements is an improved understanding of energy consumption for all households. That arrangement is now in place. We've reached an agreement with the field. We will monitor annually whether this leads to the desired results. If that is not the case, then we will strengthen the policy further. In view of what I have just said and what I am saying now, my conclusion is that this motion will have no added value if the Chamber makes that statement. That's why I don't recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	I now share the surprise of my colleague, Mrs Dik-Faber. It seems that we have just not had an hour and a half debate on the fact that there is a problem. The problem is that people do not take energy-saving measures, receive subsidies to generate renewable energy or find opportunities to save energy. I thought we had talked for an hour and a half about this problem, which is the reason for this debate. The Minister states that consideration is being given to how this problem should be dealt with. That is why I have tabled this motion, which makes suggestions as to what this might look like: proactive information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to say what I said for a third time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	No, not for a third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	All right, then I will not say that through the housing corporation, with a cooperative scheme, using the postcode rose scheme and with coaches and other forms of information, what has been asked is done. I'm coming to the Agnes Mulder c.s. motion. in piece No. 143, calling on the government to make it easier for residents to participate in renewable energy projects by helping energy cooperatives start up. I've already promised; I'm looking into that. As far as that is concerned, the motion is not necessary. The government is also invited to ensure that residents can take shares in offshore wind energy projects. I can't promise you that. There must be enormous investment in the wind farms at sea. To this end, large consortia are formed. It is possible that one or more of these consortia would like to take this element with them. Those consortia have to compete hard on the price. The framework is precisely indicated and can then be presented with a prize. The consortium that is the cheapest can realize the wind farm. I will not be able to impose an additional obligation. That would traverse the entire system of the wind farms at sea, and I do not think that is a good thing. It is possible that a consortium may think, within the framework of competition and the existing regime for wind at sea, that part of the capital needs can also be covered by private individuals on land and that it wants to do something about this. I leave that entirely to the consortia. I do not want to see the existing successful regulation for wind at sea, which has now led to the fact that the cost reduction we wanted to achieve in eight years is already going to deteriorate in two years. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 143 by Mrs Mulder c.s. Mrs Mulder asked whether we could allow SMEs to benefit from the netting scheme. The netting system does not distinguish between citizens and businesses. Anyone who does something behind the meter with renewable energy, for example through the use of solar panels, can rely on this scheme. The same applies to companies. There is no distinction on this point. I hope I have been able to deal with this misunderstanding with Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next Tuesday there will be a vote on the motions tabled.
