ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who delivers a great sporting achievement has a chance of receiving a telegram from the King. But the rest of the world only knows "telegram" as a messaging app for his or her phone. However, at the moment, our Constitution only protects the secret of letters, telephones and telegraphs. The government can't just open letters, eavesdropping on phone calls or intercepting telegrams. But today, the largest communication flows go by other means, and they are now constitutionally unprotected. This does not do justice to the importance of being able to communicate confidentially with each other. Free exchange of views is an essential part of a democratic rule of law. Without that trust, people apply themselves to censorship. We see that often happen in dictatorships and unfree democracies in many places in this world. A lot of things remain so unspoken. In the long term, this can even lead to a restriction of freedom of expression and formation. What one does not hear cannot be considered either. The Netherlands is, of course, a democratic rule of law. Our Constitution must therefore protect this confidential exchange of views. She did, but the way it works has been lost, because people have increasingly started communicating in digital ways. In 1983 no one had foreseen the present digital society. Given the very difficult process of amending our Constitution, constitutional guarantees must therefore be technologically neutral. Otherwise, we'll be following the facts all the time. Then the government has an incentive not to update the Constitution. Both would be undesirable in our view. When it comes to communication, that technology neutrality means that everyone can choose for themselves, by what means he or she communicates. So that shouldn't matter. It should not be the case that one means is better protected than the other. This choice should not therefore be directed by different levels of protection for different means, such as the letter, email, telephone or whatsapp. In this respect, we consider this bill to be a major step forward, a good and future-proof modernisation. That is also because the government explains the term "telecommunications" quite literally: it is all about medium communication, regardless of the technique behind it. It also responds to new, not yet known, unforeseen technological developments. If they do, they will also be subject to constitutional protection. In addition to these words of praise, I also have some questions about when and for how long something is considered communication and about the scope of the proposed article. Is that article wide enough? I would also like to know whether the chosen grounds for limitation chosen by the cabinet are sufficient. I'll start with the definition of communication. It is important to know what should and should not be understood as telecommunications. If an expression is protected by the freedom of expression or by Article 7 of the Constitution, or by Article 10 of the Constitution, which deals with respect for privacy, no prior judicial review is necessary to limit it. As far as letter and telecommunications secrecy is concerned, the proposed article that we are discussing today, Article 13 of the Constitution..................................................................................................................................................................................... This distinction is also relevant given the origin of the letter and telephone secret. Before intercepting a letter, the government used to have limited time, the few days between the moment of posting the letter and the moment that letter was delivered. A phone call could only be bugged during the duration of the conversation itself. But many mails, letters, voice massages and apps are now stored on third-party servers for years, even after the recipient has read them for a long time. All this time, they're gonna be available for government reading. Will it remain communication within the meaning of Article 13 of the Constitution all this time? In many cases, therefore, does legal protection remain required for reading this stored communication or does the level of protection change after the message has been read by the recipient, whereas it is then stored for many years with persons for whom that message was never intended, but who do have a role in the dissemination or storage of that message? What about all the Internet or things devices? We used to have a chairman who didn't like that term, because it was an English term. I will therefore talk about the Internet of Things. These are devices that are connected to the Internet. There are more and more such devices and billions of devices are added to the Internet every year. You know that the safety of these devices is bad, because D66 submitted an initiative note a few months ago to make those devices safer. However, it is now about the communication side of the Internet of Things. The question is whether the data transmitted by those devices connected to the Internet are telecommunications within the meaning of the Constitution. I would ask the Minister to do the same. It's a bit of a definition issue, but not a wanted definition issue, because this is really a mega-development. More and more devices are connected to the Internet and they also send messages. They have a function and some have the function of communicating with other devices or with other organizations. So the question is whether this kind of data that is sent is communication within the meaning of the law and whether legal power is needed to intercept it or not. For example, a refrigerator can automatically place an order at the supermarket. There's such a fridge these days. In a way, that's communication. After all, it is an authorized message on your behalf, addressed to a specific person and containing content, namely a shopping list. Is that part of the telecommunication secret? And what about, for example, hacking a laptop if there is a letter on the local disk? What fundamental right is that letter protected? And if with that hacked laptop, tablet or phone via the camera a letter can be read that is on the kitchen table, what does the combination of the different basic legal protections look like? The core of these kinds of questions is the following. We have a plan from the Cabinet to lay down a technology-neutral law. I would like to ask through a number of examples, in the future they may be even more pregnant, how this works out in relation to the cabinet's proposal and the practice in that regard. My second point concerns something that has also changed in recent years at a speedy train speed, namely the use of so-called metadata, the traffic data. That is not about the content data, the content of a message, but much more about the link with a location and with a person you call. So it is not about the content itself, but about the traffic data, as the cabinet always mentions in this legislative text. I hope, by the way, that this term 'traffic data', which sounds very relaxed, was not chosen to conceal the fact that this could be very personal data. It's not just technical data that you just happened to be somewhere or that you happen to be calling certain people. No, all these data together tell a lot about you and in a way are also just substantive data. If you often call someone, text or append, the place from which, the intensity and frequency with which you do so, say something. So that is almost as personal as the content of the conversation itself. The explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal begins well on this point. The ECHR, the European Charter of Human Rights and certain literature are cited to state that user data is subject to the protection of privacy. This is in itself a positive view from D66, but then a rather difficult step from the Minister follows. He is suddenly making a distinction in the protection of telecommunications secrecy. User data that says something about the content of the communication, such as the title of an email or text messages, he wants to protect, but he does not want to protect other user data. With whom you call for how long, where and when, is therefore unprotected in the interpretation of this new constitutional article. My group believes that this is a wrong choice. The justification for this choice of the cabinet, which my group does not follow, is taken from an opinion of the 2001 Council of State. It's 2017. Sixteen years ago is in some ways not that long at all, but in this case, when it comes to the change of our way of communicating in the digital age I was just saying something about "Of course it's an eternity." It's been an infinite time of change. It is precisely then that an old opinion of the 2001 Council of State might not be the best basis for such a sensitive choice. My group is calling for attention to be paid to this. According to the opinion of the Council of State, the monitoring of user data could affect the freedom of communication, but not the confidentiality of communications. After all, it does not see the content of the conversation. But it can lead to people choosing other means of conversation. The cabinet also cites the Franken Commission to justify the distinction made. That report from the Franken Commission dates back to 2000. So that's another year older than the Council of State's advice. That report states that there is no need to bring user data within the scope of the protection of constitutional Article 13. Again, how relevant are these opinions? They date far from the era for smartphones, clouds, tablets and therefore also far from the metadata age in which we now live. The government's advisory bodies have not been idle, as there is also an opinion from the 2014 Council of State. That opinion is about a legislative proposal and it is a very different picture from that same Council of State. In it you read that the user data provides the possibility, i.e. metadata, to take intrusive knowledge of one's privacy, especially if the government also has data from other sources. In other words, an old advice from the Council of State used for this law is being used to make a choice not to protect metadata, traffic data, while there is a much more recent report from that same State Council that is much more up-to-date and much more consistent with the current way of communicating. It is true that the Council of State believes that the unprotected metadata can indeed give a very clear picture of privacy. The larger number of personal data, modern ICT and data mining, the collection of all kinds of data, means that the infringement of the collection and analysis of this data is much larger than before, much larger. It is a trend which I suspect will only continue in the coming period. Is it not misleading to refer to almost 20-year-old opinions in the explanatory memorandum? Will the Minister respond to that? Why does the Minister not opt for the main line that all communications data, both content and metadata, are covered by the telecommunication secret? Doesn't that offer much more security and better future resilience? Yesterday, the Minister spoke in great detail about the guarantee function of the Constitution. Yesterday, the Constitution was also discussed in this House. Mr Ingrid van Engelshoven, our new colleague in the group, even made her maiden speech about this. I would ask the Minister if the removal of this artificial distinction between those two types of communication is not the perfect opportunity to live up to those words. The Second Chamber is a co-legislator. I have therefore considered submitting an amendment, a proposal for a legislative amendment, to ensure that traffic data is also covered by the communication secret. In the end, I did not do that because the legal text itself does not provide a point of reference for doing so. It doesn't rule that out. The problem lies mainly in the interpretation of the government. I hope that this debate will lead the Minister to a broader interpretation of the scope of the proposed telecommunications secret. If that is not the case, at least I shall table a motion. I come to another aspect of the scope. The letter, telephone and telegraph secret is a classic fundamental right. It protects people from government interference in their lives. That is the so-called vertical effect. In addition, the horizontal functioning of fundamental rights is becoming more and more common, as is the functioning between citizens. In the case of telecommunications, this is really very important. The postal services have been privatised. Large parts of telecommunications go through companies like Google and Facebook. Online advertising farmers watch and read along with everything you do online, on the Internet. A telecommunications secret that focuses solely on the conduct and omission of the government is very limited in scope. It doesn't actually make the promised protection a reality. The note following the report shows that, however, the cabinet maintains that limited vertical effect. It does not consider it necessary to include protection against curious companies in the Constitution. Is it not logical in the digital age to lay down an active fundamental right in addition to classical fundamental rights? I am thinking of an obligation on the part of the government against the violation of our privacy by others than the government itself. It would not be the first time such an obligation has been laid down. Article 23, which states that the concern of the public authorities is aimed at protecting and improving the environment. Is the Minister prepared to start preparing such a proposal so that a new cabinet could come up with a proposal on the basis of expert advice? I'd like to get a reaction to that. My final point concerns the grounds for limitation. I need one more minute for that, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry about that. The main rule is that limitation is only possible in the cases provided for by law, with the permission of the judge. In the interests of national security, this can also be done without a judicial test, as national security is used as an exception, as a restriction ground. My group is concerned about the concept of 'national security'. Isn't it too spacious? What exactly does it cover? Can the Minister fill that out on the basis of a few examples? If the police are looking for a serial killer, is that in the interests of national security? Is everything the AIVD and STUDY do by definition in the interests of national security? Why is it that only national security and not other elements have been chosen, such as the College of Human Rights. The European Convention on Human Rights uses the concept of 'national security', but this is then framed by the additional criterion that the infringement must be necessary in a democratic society. That addition is very important, because it makes you much better able to make a case-by-case assessment. The assessment of proportionality and subsidiarity is much more binding, which means that a much better balance must be made between the availability of a lighter or other means and whether the method chosen is proportionate to the objective pursued. I would like the passage on necessity in a democratic society to be included in this provision. This could be a real guarantee against too broad an explanation of the concept of 'national security'. In doing so, I immediately explained the amendment I tabled on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	I see Mr Koopmans is trying to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr Verhoeven's amendment concerns the addition of the words 'insofar as it is necessary in a democratic society'. My first question to Mr Verhoeven is: do you agree that the Netherlands is a democratic society?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	I absolutely agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you. If that's true, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	It is a difficult question, but I can fully confirm that the Netherlands is a democratic society. However, I have the feeling that there is some sort of scheme in the making, which lures me into a trap. But that's what I'm going through now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	If it is a trap for Mr Verhoeven, it would be one he created himself. I can't just make it. It is therefore not a question of adding 'democratic society'. This is an understanding of European case law that Mr Verhoeven wants to introduce, although I do not know why we need European law. My real point is that Mr Verhoeven wants to add that it must be necessary. So it is now stated in the government's proposal that it should be important for national security. Mr Verhoeven says that it must of course be important for national security, but also 'necessary'. Then what is the category of cases where it is not only important to tackle, for example, a potential terrorist, but also necessary? Who are those potential terrorists Mr Verhoeven says: it is important to follow them, but not necessary enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	Clear. I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	This kind of characterises the style of the VVD in these kind of debates. Mr Koopmans quickly took it over. I congratulate him on that. Yesterday, in the debate in which Mrs Van Engelshoven gave her maiden speech, he also gave his maiden speech. But I'm actually already facing a veteran with a razor-sharp interruption. That scares me, but I will try to give you such a clear answer. Because I think it's very important. We are talking here about the fact that one has to weigh something up and that the proportionality and subsidiarity of a particular means are taken into account. It is therefore a matter of not saying: if national security is at stake, all exceptions must be made. This is a trend in the legislation of this cabinet, which we saw at the end of the missionary government period. My group wants this addition to ensure that, in many situations, it is possible to opt for a means other than, under the guise of national security, the most far-reaching. So we are trying to ensure that there is more balance in the balance between which means you choose. If you choose a means, does it indeed have to be the most far-reaching means? It also provides a certain ease for all kinds of services that want to use the resources. That's what they've always reported. However, you could also use other means. So this is really about the balance between different means.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	Very briefly, Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for his gracious words. Despite all my appreciation for his clear answer, I would like to say that there is still something missing, namely the precise answer to the next question. What is the category of potential terrorists who, in Mr Verhoeven's view, are important to follow, but not so important that, for example, the AIVD could follow them on the basis of a formal law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	Now Mr Koopmans of the VVD pretends that this is only about violating the letter, telegraph and telecommunications secret to be modernised in the event of terrorism. Of course, there is no question of that. There are many more times when the government could rely on the concept of "national security" to intervene far-reachingly in the privacy of certain people. It is precisely the fact that the VVD is right about terrorists that is sort of the most far-reaching case in the field of national security, where D66 can also imagine that you will go far, that we agree on the extreme, but that we are more cautious in the grey area than the VVD. Because the VVD now chooses to describe the extreme, it actually shows that it does not want to think about the so important grey area. That's where D66 comes around the corner, to protect and regulate that well. That's the way you should see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	So Mr Verhoeven wants to add that this is necessary in a democratic society. We know that from European law and case law, but we do not see that in our constitutional system, even with regard to other fundamental rights. So that raises an objection to me. For example, Article 8 states: "The right to association is recognised. The law may restrict this right in the interest of public policy." So that's not where we do it that way. Is it not, therefore, confusing for the interpretation of other articles and contrary to the system of dealing with fundamental rights if we suddenly do so in this article?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	That is, of course, a very fair question, but we are now discussing this article. Mr Van der Staaij may well have a point: you should also consider to what extent an addition like this relates to other articles. I think Mr Van der Staaij understands the purpose of the addition. He just doesn't like the systematic, because it doesn't fit in with the systematic in articles that have been discussed before in this house. He could be right about that in a number of articles. I would like to admit that, but this is the part that we are discussing. In doing so, I choose this methodology. Moreover, there has been a great deal of change in this regard. I cannot now review all the articles of the Constitution, but this article concerns a section in which a great deal of change has taken place and where we see a trend of security, the transfer of national authorities to the protection of citizens by using modern communication. At this point, therefore, an additional step may be justified in relation to other articles, which deal with much slower moving domains. That would still be possible. I therefore find Mr Van der Staaij's question intriguing, but I am trying to point out that we are discussing this article now and that this article may change something very quickly, so that an additional addition is not so crazy, also from the practical point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	I understand the reasoning, but the point remains that you run the risk of recognising, for example, the right to association that it can be restricted by law in the interests of public order. Then you could say a contrario: it is not the same as the other article we are talking about today. Then it must really be necessary for democratic society, and then, so to speak, it could unintentionally lead to a reduction in the protection of other fundamental rights. That is why I think it would be wiser to follow the same system in all articles.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	Mr Van der Staaij is now opening a fine state-law debate, which is also very interesting. Ultimately, it comes down to the way you look at an improvement or change, in this case of the Constitution. Is the glass half-full because you are doing something that is perhaps very clever in view of the rapidly changing practice, because otherwise, under the guise of national security, a government will constantly cross privacy with measures that could have been other measures? That's the angle of D66. Or is the glass half empty and you say: we have not done it in other cases and so should we not do it now? You could almost say that this is a collision between progressive and conservative thinking. I'm on the progressive side after all. I am looking at a change in relation to a society that is also changing, and I should like to say to Mr van der Staaij that the Constitution, even the Constitution, should be able to move along with it in order to keep that Constitution strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	Mr Van der Staaij thinks primarily of law and he has a logical reasoning to make. Adding "in a democratic society" could also lead to inequality with, for example, the important Article 10 of the Constitution. Mr Verhoeven is also in favour of ensuring that we guarantee this. A change to the Constitution is often preceded by a state committee and a number of opinions from various organisations, because we are always careful. What advisory body advised on the passage "in a democratic society"? In which state committee has this been studied further? I am also asking this question in view of the other fundamental rights that Mr Van der Staaij has just referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm afraid it was a committee associated with D66. I cannot infer from the amendment or from our internal consideration which state committee would have advised on this. I think the answer must be that there has not been a state committee that has advised this. That seems to me to be the right answer. I'll check it out. It might be nice for the second term to see if there has been a state committee that has advised this. By the way, I assume that if this has been advised by a state committee, Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Bruins Slot are equally in favour of it. That is also a bit the portee of Mrs Bruins Slot's question, because apparently a state committee is needed to do a good idea, whereas this good idea might just come from a committee of D66 thinkers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	This is how I recognize Mr Verhoeven as a good negotiator. It's nice he's still looking into it. This type of amendment to the Constitution is often preceded by a long period of time. Yesterday we heard a beautiful maiden speech from Mrs Van Engelshoven. It stressed the importance of a careful examination of the Constitution and tabled an amendment. It's nice if you make an amendment during your maiden speech. I did not agree with it, but I did like that she tabled a far-reaching amendment. That was also based on a state committee. That is why I am asking Mr Verhoeven to look into it in particular, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	Find out, you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	Certainly, but don't cross over too quickly if you don't have any evidence of the consequences that this could have for the Constitution in a broad sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr Verhoeven is going to figure it out and he is completing his speech in one sentence, because he has been over his speaking time for one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	I would first like to say to the esteemed colleagues Van der Staaij and Bruins Slot that I thank them for the caution they have shown. In doing so, they are putting me on a path which will make this type of proposal even more cautious. I shall come back to this briefly in the second term. I have already said before the interruptions that I need a little more time. I now need 30 seconds to go into the Intelligence and Security Act. We discussed that law with the same minister who was still a missionary at the time. I then drew attention to the confidentiality of communication, the shortening of retention periods, careful data analysis, respect for encryption, framework of when to hack and when to share information, and the increased possibilities for monitoring the impact of fundamental rights. This not only enhances effectiveness, but also contributes to a minimum restriction of people's freedoms. In that debate a few months ago, the Minister showed little willingness to exchange views with the Chamber. One colleague has even left the Chamber furiously in that debate. I sincerely hope that the Minister will be more open and constructive today so that we can really have a debate on this important issue and a two-thirds majority will remain in sight for the second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I call Mr Koopmans of the VVD. He has seven minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr. Chairman. I want to speak in the present tense: the time when the telegraph is made of paper and internet and no longer of wooden poles and wire and in which facetimen means that you are not together. The article on letter, telephone and telegraph secrecy is therefore hopelessly old-fashioned. It's supposed to be over. We all agree on that. We also agree that the new forms of communication such as voicemail and whatsapp should also be protected. This debate is about freedom and security. It is about the freedom of secret communication between citizens via a third party such as an Internet provider. The government shouldn't be able to break into that kind of communication. People should be free to call and e-mail each other. The VVD considers privacy essential. It is also about the safety of the Netherlands. The point is that we can protect ourselves from terrorists and other evildoers and, therefore, the power of the government to cope with communication in the interests of national security, to keep the Netherlands as safe as possible and to strengthen our rule of law so that we can enjoy our freedom. That is why we need to formulate the Constitution very carefully, in a way that is consistent with present and future times. The VVD is a party of this time looking forward to the future. We therefore want to make a protection rule that is future-proof and applies to all forms of communication, from e-mail and voicemail to letter and Christmas card. That is what the government's proposal is about, and we support it. It's a technology-independent approach. That is the only logical option, because we do not yet know what the technique will bring in the future. In my view, it makes no sense to make an exception for a very old form of communication, namely the letter. Sure, I hope the letter lasts for a long time. We all love getting one. However, it is not of the present time to say that the letter by its nature requires a different form of protection. After all, we do not know what the letter will look like in the future: with a paper envelope or with a magnetic net, with a postcard of a sumo wrestler in it or with a much larger 3D printed hologram of a sumo wrestler? Then who knows what a letter is and what isn't? So let us speak independently of technology. We must know not only our place in history, but also our relative place in the future. What needs to be preserved is the very high level of protection against unlawful intervention by the government. Such protection must therefore apply to all forms of telecommunications and must be guaranteed by the courts. This can only be different in the interests of national security, and only if we first adopt a law to that effect in Parliament. That is exactly what the government proposal is doing, and that is what we support. This also means that, for example, whatsapp, voicemail and SMS need the high level of protection that is now given through letter and telecommunications secrecy. That is a huge gain for the privacy of everyone in the Netherlands. That is a concrete liberal solution, a solution as the VVD wants it to be. So what we need is not a completely new version, but an update of Article 13. If we keep the provision sober and neutral, at least we still have a chance that it will be introduced in four years' time, after the second reading, which is necessary in any case for a constitutional change. Now, if we are going to try to put this proposal up with all the controversial issues, we are very likely that we will never find a two-thirds majority, which would mean that in eight years' time we will still be dealing with telegraph secrecy. Then it will be very difficult to telepathize with our children. So we should not try to introduce all kinds of things about the link between a constitutional change that would be much better regulated by an ordinary law, such as proposals to include non-material telecommunications data under the article. And of course, what we certainly shouldn't do is haggle on our safety. The government's draft constitution speaks of making a law for the legislator, so for ourselves, which, in the interests of national security, creates the possibility not to go to court first in special cases, but to act on the basis of a law that we create. That's careful, that's safe and that's right. It is therefore incorrect and unsafe, as some suggest, to create a new category in which national security should not be protected if it is important, but only if it is necessary. I do not see when it would be important but not necessary to protect the inhabitants of the Netherlands from potential terrorists and criminals. The VVD stands for security and freedom: the freedom of unwatched communication, the freedom to live without fear and the freedom to enjoy life. It stands for the knowledge that the competent authorities can only listen or watch if they meet very high standards and standards. All this is carefully worked out in this proposal. We support that. The law must go to present time and be ready for the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. On 16 October 2000, then Minister of the Interior De Vries wrote a letter to the Chamber containing the cabinet position on fundamental rights in the digital age. He concluded his introduction with the words: "The aim of the cabinet is to complete the first reading of the constitutional changes resulting from the position during this cabinet period. There is therefore a need for some speed in this respect." So that was in 2000. It should be noted that a constitutional amendment had already been tabled, which had been withdrawn at the request of the First Chamber. So this has been going on for a number of years. As I recall, such a proposal was submitted in 1997; now 20 years ago. It has therefore taken quite a long time for us to be able to talk again about a constitutional review, on a subject that is widely debated in the Chamber, including the SGP Group, and the government is convinced that it is important that the Constitution be brought to that point in time. In order to protect communication between them, it should not be necessary to determine the way in which it takes place. The word 'conservative' has already come out of Mr Verhoeven's mouth. Apart from the context in which he used it, I am proud of the healthy conservatism in dealing with the Constitution, which characterizes my group. If there's no very good reason to change, that's a good reason not to change. In other words, it really has to be necessary. This is now one of those examples in which this strict measure is met. After all, it is clear that we need to adapt the Constitution to this article as soon as possible to the actual changes that have taken place. The first clause on the letter secret was proposed by the so-called "Negent Men" in 1840. They said, "Why not set firm legislation against every Gouverneur, from time to time, misguided reasons for what the safety or salvation of the State recommends?'. This must therefore be clearly stated in the Constitution itself and not simply dependent on political considerations. Eventually, the letter secret did not enter the Constitution until 1848. It took until 1983 until we officially knew the telegraph secret and telephony secret. I had to scratch behind my ears. I thought this was typically something that would have been formulated in the 19th or early 20th century. However, it has been a very long time before that was the case. That is why it is a good thing that we can talk about this bill today. It is clear that the protection of new means of communication is taking quite a long time. For lessons, including for other matters, I ask the Minister to look back. Why did it take us so long to get out of here? In any case, I myself have been taught to be as cautious as possible and not to come up with all kinds of amendments to make this text more loaded, which would jeopardise the acceptance of the two-thirds majority. Hopefully, today, we will be able to type out this text, which enjoys the broadest possible support, also politically speaking. So I do not come up with any ideas for amendments or anything like that. I would like to ask four questions for clarification, so that it is as clear as possible how the proposed text should be interpreted and what it is intended to do, including for later legal interpretation. First of all, I come to the concept of telecommunications which is now being used. This is a broader concept than the one we know from the Telecommunications Act. Isn't this term too much chosen from the current forms of communication? Is the concept of telecommunications sufficiently future-proof? Will the Minister confirm clearly that it is clearly a broader concept than the one used so far in the Telecommunications Act? The second point concerns the relationship with Article 10, namely privacy. The protection of Articles 10 and 13 that we are discussing today can be very close together. Anyone who conducts a confidential conversation on the street and is unconsciously bugged with a target microphone shall be protected by Article 10. Those who have a chat conversation are protected by Article 13. Is the criterion whether the person himself has chosen to use a third party to communicate? Can the Minister give a concrete indication of exactly how far protection extends and what differences there are in the reduction of Article 13 compared with Article 10? The third point concerns national security. The level of protection of communication is less than usual in those situations where national security is at stake. I think that is understandable and right. However, I would like to receive confirmation from the Minister that this must be interpreted strictly, that it must be a very special breach of security, for example in the context of terrorism, and that this term cannot be stretched too much, in order to minimise the breach of letter and telecommunications secrecy. Finally, a bit of the other side of the story. Would the Minister not doubt that this new wording of the Constitution does not affect the important detection of users of, for example, illegal gambling or child pornography? In the past, we have sometimes had to resort to the protection of telecommunications. This attitude of providers hindered the effective handling of serious abuses such as child pornography. Would the Minister not doubt that this constitutional revision does not mean a deterioration in current practice, but rather a desire to keep open the possibilities for an effective approach? Mr President, those were my first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you. I call Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. It happens less and less often, but it still happens, that I get a handwritten letter, in an envelope with a stamp. I am always saddened to receive a handwritten letter at this time and at this place of digital mass communication. This sometimes seems to be a message from a different time and is at least one from a different time experience. I'm always gonna sit for it with a cup of coffee and take my time to read that letter quietly. However, we are getting fewer and fewer letters and when I talk to people about telegraph secret, they think it's about a morning magazine. This means that our Constitution is no longer satisfactory. Yesterday we had a debate on the inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution. We have decided not to go through with this for the time being because there is little point. The adaptation of Article 13 to the new technological digital developments is very much needed. The Minister proposes to replace "inviolability" with "respect." Why? The Minister adds the term "national security" as a reason for breaking the secret of telecommunications, but that national security is not very defined. I myself once asked questions about the number of salafistic young preachers in the Netherlands. Then I was told by the government that I should not know that in the context of national security. If you include the term 'national security' in the Constitution, but do not define it in any way, then the possibilities of breaking the secret of telecommunications are very great. In order to break the secret of the letter, the Constitution requires a burden from the judge. Now the government is talking about an authorization. I will ask a number of questions about that later. In 1983 the letter secret was expanded with telephone and telegraph secrecy. Mr Van der Staaij pointed out that the proposal to extend it was already made in 1997. The Franken Commission reported on this in 2000, as Mr Verhoeven pointed out. As a young senator, I discussed it in the Senate a few years later. It has already been decided that there should be an amendment to the Constitution. The Minister himself refers to the State Constitution Committee of November 2010. So I'm also asking why it all took so long. The constitutional protection of telecommunications data now concerns content. Article 13 deals with content, but in a digital society, in a digital environment, its content and form are difficult to separate. Personal data are protected by Article 3 of the Constitution, but what about metadata, called traffic data by the government? Time, place and duration of communication, addressing and volume of e-mail messages, information numbers, port numbers: the Minister himself mentions a large number of issues covered by metadata. We have had a number of discussions about the secret services. This showed that secret services often obtain much more information from metadata than from the so-called content of the messages themselves. Can these two, form and content, still be separated in the digital environment? Of course, that goes much further with the development of the Internet of Things. You will see that form and content can no longer be separated. Then why does the Minister do so in the Constitution? Is it not necessary to provide a similar or similar protection for metadata? The Minister himself writes: "The government, like the members of the various political groups, sees that if data are viewed in sufficient size or in combination with other data, they can say a lot about a person and about communication that took place." However, the Minister did not choose to include this in the Constitution. He writes that in specific cases the legislator and the judge can say something about this in the ordinary law, as in the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2002, but it is doubtful whether that is the right level. Are we dealing here with a fundamental right or with a normal right? I think this is a fundamental right. If that's not the case, the Minister will have to explain. If you are so difficult to separate the content and form of digital communication, it cannot be that it is constitutional when it comes to content, but that it is not constitutional when it comes to form. I'd like to get an explanation from the Minister. I was talking about national security. That term is introduced into the Constitution, but not defined. The way in which the government defines the term at the moment is very broad. I would like to know from the Minister how the definition can be limited to matters for which the Chamber believes it is intended. I am not referring to all those examples that I always get when I ask for information and the government calls on national security. I'm here to talk about notification. For example, in the Intelligence and Security Services Act, we have established that notification is necessary and that people must be made aware that their privacy has been violated. The Minister says that this is not a matter for the Constitution. I have a question about that, too. Is notification a fundamental right? If the obligation to notify is a fundamental right, is it not part of the Constitution? Finally, I would like to say something about the scope. Through this Constitution, we protect people from breach of the letter secret and telecommunications secret by the government. To be honest, that's only a very small part of the communication. Facebook and Google have already been mentioned. We're talking about private communications. The Internet is largely owned not by governments but by companies. Our Constitution does not say anything about that at the moment. The government itself has wrestled with that case. I quote: "In view of the developments in communication technology, the emergence of private parties and the significance of communication in society, we have considered including a third member with a regulatory mandate for the legislator. That has been abandoned..." Next, reference is made to the Postal Act, the Telecommunications Act and the Privacy Directive. The question is whether this is not constitutional. Isn't this constitutional? If protection of privacy, letter secret and telecommunications secrecy against breach by the government is constitutional, why should protection against the same infringement, or perhaps even further infringement by companies, such as Facebook, Google and other commercial parties or other third parties, not be constitutional and possibly should be governed by ordinary law? That's what I'm worried about. I'm curious about the government's response. The Minister has seen that we have the amendment to item No. 10 on the mere taking of a judicial test. We have prepared a motion on so-called horizontal protection. Perhaps the Minister can convince us or take over, but otherwise we will table a motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. This bill should provide for a redrafting of the letter and telecommunications secret contained in Article 13 of our Constitution. This new wording modernises the fundamental right of Article 13 and makes it technologically independent. Who could have a problem with that? Asking the question is answering him. Since Thorbecke introduced the letter secret into his Constitution in 1848, technological development has not stopped. Telephone and telegraph were introduced and included in the 1983 Constitutional Amendment. The arrival of the Internet has considerably expanded the communication possibilities. We mail, appen, chat, "slack" and swipe. I can't help but think it's English terminology. We sometimes do this even more than is right for us and without realizing the privacy risks. Often the privacy threat of hacks occurs, causing passwords, sensitive information and photos from the cloud to be put on the street. Sometimes it's the government that can barely control his curiosity. Think about the retention of Internet traffic data. In recognising the respect of personal communication, the Constitutionalist makes a deliberate distinction between content and its wearer. Personal communication can only be taken into account if there is a formal legal basis and with the express consent of the court. In 1983 the cabinet already tried to sweep up content and carrier and to demolish the level of protection of letter secrecy. The amendment by CPN'er Bakker put a stop to that. That discussion has become more complicated in some sense since then. In many cases, contents and carriers are not distinguishable from each other. Searches are integrated into a URL. Technically, it is about traffic data, but at the same time they offer a look at the content. Despite the written procedure and the answers to the questions, my group still has a number of questions. Is the Minister satisfied with the choice of wording? Does the secret of letters and communications cover what we consider to be worthy of protection? Both the Franken Commission and the Thamassen Committee proposed a technically neutral wording of Article 13. They spoke of confidential communication, but that was what needed to be done. The term 'telecommunications secret' is now being chosen. Would it not have been better to talk about "electronic communication" or simply "confidential communication" in the end? Does the Minister see the importance of separating content from content? Does the Minister not agree that the highest possible safeguards should be provided for access to the content of private correspondence, in whatever form, and that the infringement should be appropriate and should be brought before the courts? If so, how does the Minister deal with carriers that simultaneously bring content? How does the ECHR statement Copland versus the United Kingdom of 3 April 2007 relate to this constitutional proposal? Is it true that the ECHR has gradually brought traffic data under the scope of communication secrecy? If so, will the final amendment of the Constitution stand in the foreseeable behavioural test of the amended Article 13? Does the Minister not agree that the definition of 'national security' should be defined exactly? Can he help the legal practice on the way by providing here a complete, hermetically dense, exhaustive list of facts, circumstances, and suspicions on the basis of which the right to letter and telecommunications secrecy can be restricted by those designated by law? This draft Constitution leaves much to the discretion of the legislator. There may be good and very urgent reasons for violating civil liberties. At the same time, it is one of the merits of the democratic rule of law to make such infringements only if there are reasonable grounds for doing so. Under such circumstances, new checks-and-balances must be devised to prevent the Minister of the Interior from fully automatically aligning requests for consent from those designated by law. I wonder what guarantees the Minister has in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mrs Özütok has also tabled an amendment. That should keep the letter secret separate, however, in order to deal with the old means of the letter separately. Despite her comments on a technology-neutral solution, which she is generally in favour of, I am curious as to why. In my contribution, I indicated that we do not know what the letter will look like in the future and that it could be technically quite different. Don't we make it difficult for ourselves to separate the letter? Aren't we in the middle of a rear-guard fight?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	I don't think so. Despite all the means of communication, despite all the modernisation, the letter has a place in our society. They're gonna go through with it. Their protection through the courts is well arranged. The documents and reporting have not shown me the reason for lowering the level of protection currently available, so I would like to hear whether there are reasonable reasons for lowering the level of protection and bringing it together with this law. That is actually my question, and I hope the Minister will be able to give a good answer. I think it is important that the current practice can continue and I prefer to talk about personal confidential communication rather than an old-fashioned-sounding letter secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	Then I understand that Mrs Özütok ultimately also wants all means to be treated in the same way, but that she is looking forward to the Minister's answer to the question of how best to do that, including for letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	It may be a start, but I would first like to know why this unanimity is necessary in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	The answer raised another question for me. Why does Mrs Özütok think that the written letter is more important than the e-mail?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	That's a good question. This is what I'm talking about. Letters now enjoy good legal protection, thus ensuring the confidentiality of the content. In the e-mail, that's a different story. I think it is important to define the safety and legal protection of telecommunications, but it is already well defined for the letter. So I see no need to move that protection to another level now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	That at least makes it clear to me what the reason for this is. Then I have another supplementary question. We're both from a time when we used to write letters. Is the content of an e-mail of any other interest than the content of a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	That's a good question. I am not so much concerned with the content as with the way in which it is. I need some checks and balances. What are the security criteria and how is legal protection guaranteed in both cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	I would like to thank Mrs Özütok and give the floor to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already explained in detail that Article 13 of the Constitution lays down the right to protect communications by e-mail. Back in the day, we were just talking about it in an interruption, the communication went by letter, by telephone or by telegram. I also liked the fact that Mr Van der Staaij pointed out once again that the last change to telephone and telegraph secrecy was in 1983. If you look back, as Mr Verhoeven has just done, you can see that there have been a lot of digital changes since then and that communication is of course now via Facebook, via whatsapp and via mail, with all the conveniences and hurts of that. The CDA Group therefore agrees with the government that the constitutional protection of letter and telecommunications secrecy should be formulated in such a way that it is independent of technical design. You can see that clearly when you compare the 1983 stand with that of today. Article 13 of the Constitution must protect the content of the communication transported by means of a means of communication, whereby a third party, someone else, is responsible for the transport in question. It also includes the protection of intermediate storage, in so far as it is related to transport. In that context, I would like to ask the Minister the following. When we talk about storage, related to transportation, we see today that we store a lot of pieces in the cloud. That cloud is often not under our own control, but under that of a third party. To what extent does it fall under Article 13 of the Constitution? The SP, D66 and GroenLinks groups have already asked questions about traffic data. The CDA also has a few questions about this. The government states that the boundary between the content of communications and traffic data is not always clear. That's what the CDA sees. However, this distinction is important in the debate. Traffic data which do not provide information on the content but on the transmission and storage of communications are excluded from the scope of Article 13 Constitution. Moreover, in so far as they concern personal data, traffic data is protected by Article 10 Constitution and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Can the Minister address the question of how exactly the proposed Article 13 Constitution relates to Article 8 of the said Treaty? In those cases where the traffic data also relates to the content of the communication, as is the case with a text message or a subject line, such as an email, these data are covered by the scope of Article 13. Several colleagues have already asked questions about this. The main question for the CDA is who determines when traffic data relates to the content of the communication. How do you even know that? At the moment that you have already taken that step, or is it raised in advance or left to court rulings or to lower regulations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you, too. I see that Mr Verhoeven wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	It's just a detail. Thanks to the CDA for the nuanced input. I have seen from the CDA a somewhat less nuanced input when it comes to the balance between privacy and national security. I think Mrs Bruins Slot's questions on traffic data are important. What does the CDA Group think? Doesn't she want to put the traffic records there under any circumstances? Or does Mrs Bruins Slot first want to know in which cases it is or is not substantive? If it is content, is it the intention of the CDA that they should be covered by that scope? Or is it more of an interesting question, without affecting the position of the CDA Group in the handling of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	I like the Minister's point of departure. The law and the explanatory statement state that traffic data, in terms of content, are covered by Article 13 Constitution. But the key question is what is content and what is not content. The Minister has already made a further clarification in the note on the report. I think it is important for him to take this further in this debate, so that we will soon have a clear review framework if the application of Article 13 of the Constitution continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	Clear. The point is, of course, that it goes wrong in practice. Because the services that use these data in the context of national security, which do not necessarily always have to be in the context of national security, will always say that it is about traffic data, while they will almost always contain content. You can sense that the number of times you call someone and the place from which you do that, already says a lot about the substance of someone's behaviour, on the basis of which, for example, a suspicion arises. I think that the CDA Group is asking fair questions, but the answer will be very soon: it is just traffic data. While it will almost always be content. Will the CDA Group be vigilant about this? Does it not want to be too easy in the definition of "only traffic data" when it almost always concerns content?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	In fact, in the note on the report, the Minister has already well substantiated which dates or traffic data are or are not content. He has given a number of examples of this. I think he might be able to frame even further the main thrust he's held there. Why is that important? As you can see, Article 13 of the Constitution often gives you further regulation and new laws that need to be properly aligned. This means that the framework indicated by the Minister here during this discussion is an important point of departure for further interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	We are going to the last speaker, Mr Bosma, on behalf of the PVV, with a short but undoubtedly concise and powerful contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr. Chairman. This is an extremely logical amendment to Article 13. My group agrees with that. I am also pleased with the fairly broad support that seems to sign off after the first term. There are plenty of questions left. Many have already referred to this. It is often about definitions and the scope of concepts. I wish the Minister every success in framing some of these concepts, such as national security. What exactly is that? Is that very scary, is that very limited, is it about terror, is it about acute terrorist threats, is it about people who call for terror? Or does it go much further, is it also about ideas? We live in a country where Gregory Nekschot was arrested for drawing drawings. The author of the book The demise of the Netherlands, a prediction of the future that goes beyond comma, has also been condemned. Hans Janmaat was convicted because he said that 100,000 people will come to the Netherlands. You can come up with a reasoning and say that that kind of ideas and that kind of statements are detrimental to national security. Let us deal with the people anyway, and let us also look at their communication. What's the Minister's position on that? Couldn't you also agree with the reasoning that the letter secret is actually being undermined? Indeed, the fairly harsh guarantee as it existed in Article 13 is somewhat undermined by the fact that national security is now at stake. That actually means a reduction in the letter secret as it existed. Does the Minister agree with that thought you might have? What exactly is telecommunications? Does everything fall underneath, including the dm's, the apps, the texts, the chats? The cloud has already been mentioned. Is all this covered by the concept of telecommunications? Nor can that concept be precisely defined. The communication of Mr Verhoeven's refrigerator with Albert Heijn, is that included? You could say, especially in the case of Mr Verhoeven, that that is privacy-sensitive. It is, of course, getting wider and bigger with all these things. Another concept introduced is "respect." That sounds a little like respect. On the street, you're forced to respect yourself. What exactly is respect? It is at the expense of the concept of immunity, which I have in mind. These are words, but they are not without consequences. Again, I welcome the broad support that the new Article 13 seems to have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	The Minister has indicated that he can answer the questions of the honourable Members immediately. I now give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their contributions. It is the second time in 24 hours that we stand in this position to talk about an amendment to the Constitution. Yesterday, the need for the amendment was discussed in detail. Today, however, I am demonstrating broad support for the idea that the current text of the Constitution should be amended. For the viewers at home I will read the current text, which is rather short. That text reads: "The secret of letters shall be inviolable, except in the cases provided for by law, by order of the judge." Paragraph 2 states: "Telephone and telegraph secrecy shall be inviolable except, in the cases provided for by law, by or with the permission of those designated by law." Thus, in law, messages are protected. Firstly, there is an exhaustive list of the technical nature of these messages: it must be either a letter or telephone or telegraph communication. Secondly, a distinction is made as to the extent to which the Constitution protects it. When it comes to a letter, the judge must order it before the government can have access to it. In the other cases, the ordinary legislator may decide who should give the order; that does not necessarily have to be a judge. Other forms of communication, strictly speaking, do not appear in the law. So far it has been a question of explaining that an e-mail or a text message is covered by telephone and telegraph secrecy, and that it can therefore be regulated by ordinary law whether the government should have access to it and under what circumstances. That is obviously outdated; it has been for some time. The question asked by some of the Members was why it took us so long to stand here to change the Constitution. That is, of course, a bit of a difficult question for those who ultimately come up with the proposal to change it. After all, I am on the shoulders of predecessors who have already been working on it. Without going into depth, I think there is a role in this that you will have discussions about scope and a number of definitions that we will come back to. This has also been the subject of considerable attention in the consultative process. Before I zoom in on this, I would like to pay particular attention to the system of the Constitution. This protects privacy quite extensively in a number of articles. That starts with Article 10: the protection of privacy. Then comes Article 12, which specifically deals with house law, so protecting privacy in your own home. In that system, it actually makes sense, and it also makes sense, to arrange in Article 13 the privacy of something that is sensitive to privacy and moves from one privacy to another. So back in the nineteenth-century thought: in article 10 you have the protection of privacy when you are talking to each other in your front yard. Then the government should not place targeted microphones in there, or try to find out what is being said. This falls within the scope of Article 10. But when you send a letter to someone on the other side of the street, you give the letter to the mailman and he delivers it, the government cannot just say to that mailman: let me look in it. If the government did so, it would fall within the scope of Article 13 of the Constitution. We can maintain that system today, too. Only the technical dependence currently in the specialization of Article 13 must now be removed. That is the objective. I shall deal with the amendments in a moment. I would like to continue to put the absolute independence of technology at the forefront. I would not like to make another distinction between the note I just gave to Mr Van Raak in a closed envelope and the text I may have shared with one of the other Members. Both must be dealt with in the same way in the Constitution. There may be differences in the law, of course, but it is now a question of constitutional treatment. It was in 1983 after this I stop looking back at it, apparently hip to include not only the letter secret in the Constitution, but also the telegraph. We are also of this age and we are aware that new means of communication are being used for telegrams and so on. We shouldn't make that mistake again. Soon I will give an example here and there to give an impression of a number of concepts. This must really be seen as examples, because we should not come up with an exhaustive list, in the sense that a text message is included and not a direct message at Twitter. Facebook requires you to accept followers. Is it or isn't it? I'm not deliberately finishing the sentence, because you end up in endless discussions. We should not want to regulate this at constitutional level. If it had to be settled, then perhaps by law in somewhat general terms. In the end, the judge has to decide whether it falls within the scope of such a law. The general concepts of the constitution are of course of the utmost importance. The proposal now before us fully guarantees technical independence. Everyone has the right to respect their letter and telecommunications secrecy. So there's nothing about the shape. I'll be right back to the question... No, I'd better do that now. When is communication telecommunications? In fact, this is the case, and that is always the case with the assessment. Mrs Özütok asked when a personal conversation would or would not be covered. There are three cumulative criteria to be met if the protection provided for in Article 13 is to apply. First of all, a means of communication must be used. When we talk to each other in the public, it is not at all covered by the protection of the Constitution. When we do that privately, it is the protection of privacy. It's gotta be targeted. It must be addressed: it must have a name on it. By the way, there may also be more than one. However, when you stick something to your window, when you post a website or when you call something off the balcony, it does not fall within the scope of the letter secret, of Article 13. After all, it is not addressed; it is not addressed. The essence of the old letter secret is that you entrust the message to third parties. If I write a note immediately at lunchtime, slip away and Mrs Bruins Slot and she opens it up again, it is not covered by the letter secret because no third party has been involved. The purpose of Article 13 is precisely to protect traffic between the two of us at that stage, but there must be a third party responsible for that. I think that with these three criteria you have a future-proof package, which at least allows you to weigh new techniques into the Constitution when making laws. These laws can then be more specific and more detailed. Mr Verhoeven and Mr Van der Staaij asked about future stability. It is in those criteria, which are quite broad in that respect. Again, the ordinary legislator can fill that out. He can make a law on texting if there's a reason. The judge can then see if anything is covered. Are traffic data covered or not covered by the letter secret, under Article 13? That's an interesting question. Let me say first of all that I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven that traffic data may also relate to the privacy of persons. I believe that I have written to the Chamber that a list of telephone numbers someone has called with, for example, a buddy group of seropositives, an AIDS clinic and an establishment where people meet, can give an idea of the private behaviour of that person. In fact, such a list of telephone numbers can say more about a person's private behaviour than the content of a telephone call or the content of a letter. If ever there had been a tendency to say that traffic data does not affect privacy, I would like to stress here that that is not my attitude. You can certainly get a picture of the privacy with sufficient traffic data. The question is whether these traffic data are covered by the message traffic. That depends. In principle, such data, where personal data are concerned, fall within the scope of Article 10, the protection of privacy. Could there also be traffic data that is not covered by the personal data? I have just asked my staff to give an example of this. They had to search, but they came up with the example of HTML. That stands for Hypertext Markup Language, remember? From the layout of a page that is sent with a message you can say that it is not about personal data, but that it is covered by traffic data. Well, maybe. In that case, there is therefore no constitutional protection. That does not rule out the fact that the ordinary legislator still puts a protection on it, but that is certainly not covered by Article 13, and I do not think it is under the protection of privacy as such. Again, I do not want to become too technical because we want to be technical independent, but an obvious example in which traffic data does contain content is the practice, which I think we all know, that when we put an -e-mail in the subject line, on the subject of the e-mail, we do: don't forget our drink Friday afternoon. That's obvious content, but it's at the scene of traffic records. It is clear that such data will then fall within the scope of this Article 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	The Minister is right to say that form and content cannot always be separated in digital communication. He rightly says that metadata is often much more interesting than content. I hear that a lot from secret services. So there's also a big privacy issue there. Is the Minister now saying that these traffic data, these metadata, are all covered by Article 10, respect for privacy? I do not think that is the case. The other category is covered by normal legislation. Does the Minister agree with me that it is strange to include part of the metadata, part of the traffic data, under constitutional protection and not the other part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	There are two things that are mixed up now. Article 10 is based on the protection of privacy, unless otherwise provided by law. Such a law can, of course, be the Act on Intelligence and Security Services. In addition, there is the question of whether there are traffic data that are not covered by the scope of Article 10. I have just referred to an example of this as a far-fetched example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	Then let me try to put it easier. In digital communication, form and content, the metadata, are difficult to distinguish in terms of privacy. If we protect the content constitutionally, but we don't protect the metadata, wouldn't you make an unjustified distinction?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	That is not the case. Traffic data are subject to constitutional protection if they concern personal data, namely Article 10 on the protection of privacy. If there is no message that meets the three criteria I have mentioned, namely that it is delivered to someone else via a means and through a third party, it does not fall within the scope of the message traffic referred to in Article 13 of the proposed Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr. Van Raak, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	That's clear. If I understand correctly, all metadata, all traffic data, are covered by Section 10. Or is there a residual category and is that residual category very minimal? That is also what I am asking for in view of the future, in connection with the Internet of Things. We're now making a constitutional change for something in the future, which we don't know yet. Is the law in this wording sufficiently equipped for developments that we are not yet seeing and which may not fit into the Minister's three-stage criteria?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	I did not say that all traffic rules are covered by Article 10. This is only the case in so far as they concern personal data. So I am referring to that answer. I have also given an example where this is not the case. This does not mean that they are not protected under the rule of law, because the ordinary legislator is, of course, free to legislate further. If it is not a message that meets the criteria I have mentioned, and if it is not about privacy, you could leave a residual category of traffic data that is regulated by ordinary law but not by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	Can I have one more time? These data are as sensitive to privacy as those other data, especially in view of developments in the context of the Internet of Things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u58	Now the search becomes meaningful, because if it does not relate to privacy, how can it still be privacy sensitive? That is what I would like to point out. Mr Verhoeven also asked about future stability, for example with regard to the Internet of Things and new developments taking place in this area. To be honest, I think that at this point we can come to an end with the terms I have just mentioned, which are general but rather specific. If you order your fridge to send an address message and if it runs through a communication device, that is actually a message. There is no reason why a shopping list that you address by post to Albert Heijn should be treated differently from a shopping list that is created by another means, but you have to maintain those three criteria. The Internet of Things will almost by definition contain a means. The question remains as to whether there is trust to a third party, which depends on how it is technically structured. And there could be "directed." So it could be covered. Once again, I am trying to stay a little away from too many specific examples to prevent us from becoming technologically dependent again in the reflections. I would like to take a closer look at the general points before I move on to the specific answer. We have already discussed the limitation of traffic data in the event of interruption. I'll continue with national security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u59	Before you proceed, Mr Verhoeven has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u60	I fully agree with the Minister that, if you want to remain technologically neutral, you should not deepen too many specific techniques in such a way that they somehow get into the legislative text. On the other hand, of course, it is necessary. If you write something technology-neutral, it is of course the implication of that technology-neutral wording in the practice in which all these techniques are indeed present. I understand that we cannot go through all the specific examples in this debate, and I also understand that the Minister himself is thinking about these categories; at least he does not park them as 'wanted' or 'you're making things difficult'. He understands that this is a role in practice, but how are we going to ensure that we cover it up enough and not leave it open under the guise of technology neutral? How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u61	I think that the answer in the written preparation does a lot of work; I refer to that once again. Following that, this debate can help to focus more on this issue. I have already said that, if I give an example, I realize that this is going to be part of the legal history, even if I try not to fill it out technically. In future, as legislator, the Court can take that back by saying that, if an e-mail whose subject-line contains content has been discussed in the debate, this e-mail is covered by the message referred to in Article 13 of the Constitution. In the future, if an analogue situation arises with a means of communication other than e-mail, this can be treated analogously. I think that with this kind of thing we can indicate some contours without hanging it from a specific app.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u62	I have another question along the lines of Mr Verhoeven's comment. You write messages on WhatsApp, Facebook and email yourself. You write them yourself, you send them, and they're in your private group of Facebook. However, through the Internet of Things, for example, there are more and more cars that send information about driving behaviour to the manufacturer. I didn't write that information myself, but it's my car, it's in the car's software to do that, and that data does say something about my driving behaviour and about the places I might have been, despite the fact that I didn't write the message. The car sends it with the software built by the manufacturer. Is this or is it not covered by Article 13 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u63	That's a good question. It is contained in paragraph 1 of Article 13, which reads in the new proposal: 'Everyone has the right to respect his letter and telecommunications secrecy'. The question now is whether, if Mrs Bruins Slot's car exchanges independent information with the garage company, it would be a violation of her communication secret if someone were to infringe those messages. I want to be a little careful about this, but I think it depends on whether she knows that the car does, whether it is her intention to do so, whether it is content. With the supplier of an object, for example a phone, it can be agreed that it is automatically updated; an automatic update of software can be set. I do not think that is within the scope of Article 13, although information is exchanged via a means of communication, in a sense on behalf of... It seems to me that this then depends on the fact that there is no longer communication on the part of Mrs Bruins Slot, but on an automatic execution of an act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'm gonna go through with this. Some of the situation may still be fictitious, but the previous amendment took place in 1983 and it proved to be obsolete within 15 years. I'm driving that car. There is software to look at what my driving style is, where I find myself exactly, how fast I drove somewhere and perhaps under what circumstances that happened. This may give us an idea of where Mrs Bruins Slot has gone recently and what she was doing there at those times. It's being sent to the manufacturer. That says something about what I do and what I don't do. Can this still be covered by Article 13 of the Constitution without me actively ordering that information to be sent?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u65	I'm here to wonder if that matters much. The question now is: is this covered by Article 10, the protection of privacy, which seems obvious to me, or is there still a message from that privacy? Let us at least agree that it has constitutional protection in any case. As far as personal information is concerned, which says something about Mrs Bruins Slot's behaviour, it is a matter of privacy. I tend to keep it that way. The same is true when the installer comes to her house and sees her behavior and the appliances she has in her house. It's in the sphere of privacy. If you're gonna stretch that to a message...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u66	That information is no longer in my home, but is stored with the manufacturer. That's the difference with Article 10. I always keep my cars pretty long. Let's just say I've been driving that car for ten years. That data will be there for ten years. Suppose at some point the government is interested in what Mrs Bruins Slot did at that time because the Tax Administration is wondering whether or not I used that car privately. Can it then request that information from the manufacturer and is it covered by Article 13 or Article 10? I wonder whether it will still be covered by Article 10, since it will then be covered by a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u67	That is not a difficult question, because storage is not covered by Article 13. Such storage may have been achieved as a result of a communication network........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This has already been mentioned in the written reply; that was also the previous opinion. That is also an answer to the question about the cloud. The cloud is then seen as an external hard drive, as a form of storage or as information entrusted somewhere. This may then fall under the protection of Article 10, but in any case it will no longer be covered by the confidentiality of letters, Article 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u68	First of all, I would like to express my appreciation to my fellow Members, who are all presenting interesting examples to the Minister, and to the Minister, who is trying bravely to answer them. I notice two things about this. In my view, it indicates that, in addition to the debate on what the public authorities are allowed to do, we should actually have another major discussion on the issue of data held by companies or citizens. Now I actually want to throw an extra dimension into it, to make it even more difficult. Today we also know an augmented reality: a combination of things. You communicate directly with someone, but part of the communication takes place via a screen of a third party. According to the Minister, is there a situation in which a kind of combination of Article 13 is used, for example, through your glasses and Article 10 applies because part of the communication is direct? It seems very difficult to me. I do not expect a final answer immediately, but I would like to point out that this is precisely why a technically neutral constitutional revision is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u69	I regard this as a support for the proposal that is before us. I keep pointing to the three criteria. I think we should always look at this: is there a means of communication, is information entrusted to a third party in charge of transport and possibly intermediate storage and is there a focus on communication? These are the three criteria to which this is always measured. I also agree with what Mr Koopmans said, namely that there should be an opportunity to discuss the horizontal effect. You have seen in the documents that, on the advice of the Council of State, I did not include this horizontal effect. This really regulates the relationship between government and citizens, according to the Constitution's system. There is much to be said about the relationship between citizens and other bodies, individuals or groups of persons, but this is not covered by this proposal. Which brings me back to the main path. I have just illustrated that we have now replaced the technical dependence in the distinction in the old Article 13 with another relevant difference. We talked about that, too. Everything now falls within the scope of the new Article 13. Cases may not be examined by the public authorities until the courts order them to do so, unless national security is involved. Let me stress that first. Under the current regime there is in fact no constitutional limitation for the legislator to have access, for example, to SMS traffic, if that is in the interest of the business community of the Netherlands or if it serves another legitimate interest. If this amendment of the Constitution is adopted, it is no longer acceptable. Therefore, the legislator should only regulate whatsapp, SMS and e-mail traffic if it complies with the provisions of the new Article 13, namely that it must be authorised by the court or tribunal, and questions relating to it have also been raised in the interests of national security, by those designated by law. This, of course, brings us straight to the question: what is 'national security'? Mrs Özütok and other Members have asked for this. I can say that this is the same as the term used by the ECHR in the case law. It is therefore synonymous with the concept it uses: it may be the case in the case of violations of state and military secrets, calls for the use of force, the pursuit of terrorist activities and the publication of writings which could damage the functioning of a country's state security. The law therefore aims to align one-to-one with the definition of the ECHR. This is also consistent with the way the AIVD and STIVD handle it under the current Intelligence and Security Services Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u70	Well, "national security"... In his definition, the Minister refers to state secrets. Well, that's a problem. What exactly is a "state secret"? The House of Representatives is now also discussing this problem in the context of national security. In fact, the government can rank almost anything under state secrecy, sensitive information or national security. At the moment that is very spacious. Moreover, it is mainly the government that decides whether something is national security; the House of Representatives now has no role in this. I do miss that. If we put this so undefined in the Constitution, the government in theory has incredibly many opportunities to call something 'national security'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u71	I believe that two things are now mixed up: state secret and national security. There may be reasons other than national security for declaring something state secret. For now, I want to leave that alone, because that subject is not now before us. Indeed, the concept of 'national security' is mentioned in paragraph 2 of Article 13 which we are now discussing. A definition is therefore important. I have just answered the question: it is the definition of the ECHR. I explained that too. Moreover, I fully recognise that things that are secret create inconvenience in a system in which we want to discuss as openly as possible with each other. But let me say that I sometimes experience this inconvenience in reverse: there is a rumor, for example, that I know is not true, but I cannot talk about it because it is secret and I cannot say that it is not true. So that inconvenience is also on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u72	In the definition of national security, the Minister mentioned three issues. Will the Minister repeat the last one? I wonder whether this, at least in theory, does not offer unprecedented possibilities. In my view, the third definition gives the government a great deal of opportunity to break this secret of telecommunications.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u73	This concerns the publication of writings that could damage the functioning of a country's state security service. This could be, for example, publishing data on agents or other sensitive information. This is not new, by the way. This is the definition used earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u74	The Minister said that it was derived from, if I say so, Article 8 of the ECHR. By the way, the government wrote that in 1999. The term 'national security' is, of course, already mentioned in other places in the Constitution. In that sense, it's not new. I actually agree with Mr Van Raak that the broad way in which it is handled in practice is indeed a risk. That is why D66 has proposed, through an amendment, that the Minister should deal with this later, I think, in order to include the other elements used in the ECHR article to define the term 'national security'. However, the government does not. It's about the possibility of weighing up the means you're using to achieve the goal of national security. How far do you go in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u75	I shall return to the amendments in a moment. I agree that there can be discussion about the laws that are under the Constitution. For example, we recently had extensive discussions about one of those laws, the new Intelligence and Security Services Act. No full consensus has been reached on this either. It's possible. The proposal is now before the Supreme Court. This illustrates the fact that Mr Verhoeven is absolutely right. Within the constitutional framework, there may still be discussion about its legal implementation. Then I agree with Mr Van Raak: even if the law is established, discussion or discomfort can arise again in dealing with that law. That is certainly the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u76	I understand that, and I do. Underlying legislation will always lead to discussions, which will then be diminished on the basis of the Chamber relations after that discussion. I understand that very well. However, we are now discussing the inclusion in the Constitution of the term 'national security'. We do this on the basis of Article 8 of the ECHR, which defines this. My group proposes to add the other additions to the Constitution. That is why we are tabling this amendment. Then we will ensure that we have a broader and better framework to also define the limitations in lower legislation. However, the government does not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u77	I am now inclined to discuss the amendments. Let me see if I have any other points. Things are connected, too. Many points of discussion ultimately lead to an amendment. Let me do the other points first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u78	When it comes to a limited number of other points, I do indeed propose that they be dealt with first. Then you can deal with all the amendments at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u79	I will. In that which was meant as a general introduction to the various main topics I have already answered quite a lot of the questions. That does not apply to Mr Verhoeven's question about a laptop with a letter on it. This really falls under the protection of privacy. Whether it is a letter or not, this does not meet the three criteria I have mentioned. A peeking camera in the laptop is also covered by the protection of privacy, so Article 10. We talked about horizontal operation. We also talked about national security. Mr Koopmans emphasised the distinction between ordinary law and the Constitution. I'd like to do that again. In debates on the Constitution, it sometimes seems that everything that is not in the Constitution is free to go on. Of course it isn't. The principle of legality means that public authorities outside the Constitution are not allowed to do anything, unless there is a legal basis for it. The legislator is there so that the legal basis always remains within the constitutional frameworks, as we see it in a debate like this. In itself, therefore, there is no man overboard if something is not in the Constitution, because there is also an ordinary legislator, who then looks at whether something is in place. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether this would lead to a change in the field of child pornography, for example. That is not the case. That's not what it's about. The concept of 'telecommunications' is therefore, in fact, widely understood, in accordance with the criteria I have mentioned. I've been philosophizing with my staff. Maybe I shouldn't tell you this, but I'm still talking about whether communication through two cans with a string is tensioned between telecommunications. That idea, I think, falls on the criterion that you don't entrust the information to a third party. It's more like whispering something in the ear. This may be covered by the protection of privacy, but not by Article 13. That's the oldest phone line we used to play with as kids. It is not covered by Article 13 of the Constitution. Mr Van Raak has an amendment (33989, No. 10), which I shall deal with in a moment. On some of the points he has raised, I have already stood still in response to an interruption. Ms Özütok asked if it was ECHR proof. It is in the government's belief that it is. The concept of 'national security' is also derived from this. Mrs Bruins Slot has asked a specific question about the cloud. I've just said something about that. And passerby. Storage is considered by the Constitutionalist and by us as a, perhaps virtual, form of an external hard drive. It's actually not even virtual, because of course it's stored somewhere in the world on a hard drive. At that point, it's not on its way. This is similar to e-mails stored on your iPhone, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u80	Storage of communication in the cloud is covered by Article 13 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u81	This is true if there is a message, we must look at the text as well, which is entrusted to a third party who is responsible for transport and any intermediate storage. That does not apply, however, to a message that has been delivered long ago but that you leave behind. There is still a trace of this in cyberspace; it is; that is a fact. If the government wanted to do so, it would be a matter of protecting privacy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u82	The Minister refers again to Article 10, but the explanatory statement on pages 6, 16 and, in my view, 36 states that storage of communication in the cloud is covered by Article 13 of the Constitution. I therefore ask the Minister to clarify in the second time when storage is in the cloud and therefore not covered by Article 13, and when the storage of communication is in the cloud and is covered by Article 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u83	I'll give you that for the second term. Mr Bosma supported the proposal. He was curious about some of the raffle edges to some of the definitions. I hope I managed to convince him in the answer. Let me see what the remaining questions are before I move on to the amendments. I went over the traffic records and the fridge. I now turn to the amendments that have been tabled. Mr Verhoeven proposed adding: if this is necessary in a democratic society. As Mr Van der Staaij has already pointed out, this is actually contrary to the Constitution's system. This is not included for other fundamental rights either. You could say you have to start somewhere, but I don't think that's a good approach. If you want this, you'd have to sit down and add it everywhere; you'd have to use a constitutional change for that. Otherwise, you'll get dissimilar articles. Some articles would have to be taken into account and others would apparently not. I wouldn't do that. It's not necessary either. This is about privacy, for example. Just as Mr Verhoeven writes in his explanatory statement, his necessity, subsidiarity and proportionality are par excellence in the criteria on which the use of special powers by a security service is subject to review by law. It is therefore fully enshrined in the law. I refer to what I just said: not everything that is not here is not valid; a lot of these things are indeed valid, because they are in an ordinary law. However, it does not fit in the constitutional system to include this now. I'd advise against that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u84	That is what we are talking about, and that is what we are talking about. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u86	I have just told Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Bruins Slot and Mr Koopmans that in 2010 the State Committee gave its opinion on this issue: do you have to deal with it by article or do you have to do it with a general provision? I will go into this in greater detail in the second period. The State Committee has recommended that a general provision should be introduced, as this would compensate for what D66 is trying to regulate with the amendment. This is about countering the erosion of the term "national security" as a way of always interfering in people's fundamental rights. Why didn't the Minister take that advice? Why can't I hear him about that? He's just saying: per article we're going to do this; I don't think that's a nice way to work. That is what Mr Van der Staaij said. But the government has not said anything about the greater way in which it works, which means that it is done in all articles in which it plays by means of a general provision. At least I haven't heard from the government about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u87	Quite strictly, it's two different things. Here's what I'm talking about. If you would like to add this, it does not necessarily have to be in a general provision. Then you could also make a constitutional change. Then a number of articles will only be finished when we add this. Then why don't I? Then I come to my second argument: I do not think it is necessary, because these criteria are sufficiently laid down in ordinary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u88	That'll kill the first part of my point. The Minister says that this is not my only argument; I have another argument, and I would like to take this up with him, not to allow the first argument, which Mr Verhoeven rejected, to be the only argument, so that I actually have to agree with him. That's fine. The Minister has just said enough about the second argument. I will not respond to that now, because it leads to his advice. I will come back to this in the second term, but I will leave it for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u89	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u90	Excellent. Mr Koopmans, did you have a question about Mr Verhoeven's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u92	You may ask that question, but this is not always common practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u93	I've been here a few weeks, too. My question therefore concerns Mr Verhoeven's amendment. Does the Minister agree with me that if we were to try to adopt European human rights and case law one-on-one in this way, we would actually ask the European Court of Human Rights to start interpreting our Constitution one-on-one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u94	That's not really a question to me. I'll write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u95	The Minister continues the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u96	Something just came up to me. I'll see if I can tell you right away, 'cause that'll save you. It's about the answer I owed to Mrs. Bruins Slot about the cloud. During and after transport it is indeed covered by Article 13, in so far as it is the third person who transported it. I'm correcting myself. If the government requests it from the third party, it falls within the scope of Article 13. I stand corrected. So Mrs. Bruins Slot just pointed it out. With his amendment, Mr Van Raak wants to take the judicial test for all messages. So that goes far beyond what is currently the case, regardless of the fact that we are modernising the Wiv. The bill was adopted by the House of Representatives at first reading. I can use my nose to point out a number of people who were against it at the time. So I'm gonna leave it in the middle. But also under the current Intelligence and Security Services Act, there is no need for the judge's consent if the Minister of Defense orders that a telephone call be intercepted in a crisis area. If it is necessary for national security and it is proportionate for the purpose set and the subsidiary use of other means, then the Minister may impose a burden on it. Then the supervisor, the CTIVD, will look into whether all this has happened correctly. This amendment should stop doing so. Then you can say: then you have to change the law. But then we'll go back to the Stone Age at this point. It would also be very impractical and unworkable. I strongly advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u97	That is the point of the amendment. 10?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u98	Yes, it is the amendment to item No. 10. Mrs Özütok has tabled an amendment which does not go that far. It confines itself to the secret of letters. You're back to square one, in the sense that you take the technology independence out of the law. Then the letter will be treated differently from the mail. The intention of the government was precisely to drop that difference. The consequences for the practice of the amendment in respect of item No. Mrs Özütok's 11 amendments are much less draconian than those of Mr Van Raak's amendment. Frankly, not so many letters are sent open, let alone opened up to any national purpose. That is not so bad, but the beauty of Article 13, as it stands, is precisely that we remove technical dependence. We no longer have to ask ourselves whether it is a letter or an e-mail. That's actually English for "letter." I would nevertheless advise against that amendment. That was my answer for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you. We will proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber. I call Mr Verhoeven. Speaking time is about one third of the speaking time given for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I'll start with two motions, or I'll get caught up in my papers. The motions are about two cases I've brought in, but I haven't had a response to them yet. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that traffic data should be protected under the proposed telecommunication secret as well as the content of communication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33989-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u101	Why does Mr Verhoeven not propose an amendment? He wants to amend the text of the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr Bosma may in theory be right about that. I'll find out. If necessary, I will come up with an amendment. Then the scope is exactly the same, so that there is no need to reopen the debate in order to understand what I have been talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u103	In the motion, Mr Verhoeven seems once again to be making no distinction. That is what we have just done very difficultly between traffic data that are substantive and traffic data that are not. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u104	In the sense that we believe that most of the traffic data is substantive. Mrs Bruins Slot says that traffic data is not usually content and only reflect "location-like" things, but we believe that they are almost always substantive, especially as regards how they are applied by those who use the data to make certain people suspicious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u105	The question is what Mr Verhoeven means by 'in substance'. The Minister argued that traffic data is always subject to Article 10 of the Constitution and is therefore subject to privacy. In doing so, there is a form of legal protection for these traffic data. If I listen carefully to Mr Verhoeven's speech in his first term, he is mainly concerned with legal protection. Does it make any difference whether there is legal protection under Article 10 of the Constitution or legal protection under Article 13 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u106	That is a valid point. Article 10 deals with the protection of privacy. Some will therefore be able to run well through Article 10, but some will not. That is why we want to regulate this through Article 13. That seems logical to me, because the two groups do not overlap completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u107	I may have misunderstood the Minister, but I believe that the vast majority of traffic data is covered by Article 10 of the Constitution. The minister really had to look for an example of a traffic data where that was not the case and that was HTML.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u108	That is true, but that is the difference between the legal, from the Constitution, entering into the debate on this issue and looking at the practice through the work of the services. In this respect, my experience is that the concept of 'national security' and the increasing use of all kinds of data under the guise of national security are being extended. We believe that additional protection is needed to cover the practice. We are doing this by doing something about Article 13. We are very pleased that Article 10 is already doing a great deal of good. But because it often goes wrong, we think that we should take another step. However, this is more inspired by my practical experience with the services and the way in which this cabinet has made laws in recent years, using national security for almost everything to break into the privacy of citizens, whether suspicious or not. We have also had discussions and debates on this. In those debates, D66 was unable to ensure that a majority of the House voted against those laws. That is why we must always be cautious, and that is why we are taking this extra step. But strictly speaking, Mrs Bruins Slot, you are absolutely right with the way you interpret the Minister. That's how I heard it. I'm filing my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the secret of letter and telecommunications has traditionally been a guarantee against public interference;]] [[Whereas communication through private telecommunications service providers is increasing and these companies can gain a very personal insight into a person's life;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which the horizontal functioning of the constitutional articles for the protection of privacy and telecommunications secrecy are satisfied against interference in these rights by persons and how any additional constitutional protection can be developed, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33989-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u109	I would also like to return to the suggestions, comments and criticisms voiced by members of the VVD, the CDA and the SGP in this debate. Mrs. Bruins Slot asked me, "Aren't you going too fast?" Shouldn't you also be aware of what the Constitutional Commission said? I have just said in an interruption that the Constitutional Commission issued an opinion in 2010. Chapter 8 contained a proposal for a new telecommunications secret, limited to national security, but with the emphasis on the need to read it in conjunction with the Committee's proposal in Chapter 6 for a substantive extension of the restriction system. Or, in normal words, if, under the guise of national security, which is contained in several articles of the Constitution, you are going to violate the fundamental rights of people, which is allowed on the basis of that Constitution, then we should find a solution to that. It is proposed to do so by means of a general provision, according to the Constitutional Affairs Committee at the end of Chapter 6 of its opinion. You could follow that advice, but the government doesn't, and that's why D66 chose to do it article by article. We are therefore starting with the first article to be discussed, and that is now Article 13. In that sense, we are equally consistent. In fact, we blame the government for saying that we take national security out of the ECHR and use it as a concept to cooperate. The Constitutional Affairs Committee points out the dangerous possibility of this concept being stretched very much in order to be able to take steps at all times, to which we say: solve it. The Constitutional Commission wants a general provision, and we say: at least do it in this article.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u110	I really appreciate Mr Verhoeven's further clarification, but this general provision, did we not discuss it yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u111	That might be possible, but is there going to be one?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u112	I see the Minister shaking no, but yesterday we discussed precisely that general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u113	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u114	That was a wonderful contribution by Mrs Van Engelshoven. That general provision was put in the fridge for a moment. Would it not be wiser to withdraw this amendment now and to allow us to discuss that general provision in the other legislative proposal? That is where the various elements are taken into account in a broad sense, and I refer to fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. D66 had made the proposal to use the full wording of the Constitutional Commission. It is only a suggestion to Mr Verhoeven, but of course he himself deals with his amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u115	I think that is a very valuable suggestion that I absolutely want to think about. I hereby undertake to do so. I will also have a word with my colleague Van Engelshoven. Here are two worlds coming together, regulating the world of legislation in the most elegant way, in which I think Mrs Bruins Slot would like to see a D66 step versus the rapidly changing practice of using all kinds of data to ensure national security and violating people's privacy and fundamental rights. Since this is happening at such a rapid rate, I have stated in my speech that these developments are going very quickly. I think that putting this solution in the refrigerator under elegant legislation is dangerous. Then again, we haven't arranged anything for a fast-changing practice for years. And that's why I have to weigh these two things against each other and come back to this. The Chamber will then see whether or not I withdraw my amendment. However, I take the advice to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u116	I'll make it a little more complicated. The general provision we spoke about yesterday was the provision prior to the Constitution. This general provision is discussed in Chapter 4 of the State Committee's report. In Chapter 6, however, we are again talking about another general provision, which Mr Verhoeven is now referring to. This is an additional restriction clause. This would mean that restrictions on fundamental rights do not go beyond the purpose of the restriction and that the core of fundamental rights should not be affected. That is true; that has been advised by the State Committee and that opinion has not been followed by the government, on the initiative of Parliament. But that is something else that Mr Verhoeven is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u117	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u118	After all, the ECHR text on what is necessary in a democratic society, to which Mr Verhoeven refers, is not the general additional restriction clause referred to by the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u119	That's right. I just got a note. I think it's okay to break the letter secret for now. So I'm reading the note. It states: "It is not a general provision in advance, but a general provision in terms of protection on mode of limitation." That is exactly what Mr Van der Staaij is saying. But when he says that, he is actually saying that what I am contributing as a reason for doing so, namely that the government did not accept that opinion from the State Committee, is an additional argument to regulate things by article now. After all, that was not the issue at all yesterday. So in fact Mr Van der Staaij is with me now. I thank him for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u120	Mr Verhoeven is always very strong in pulling things towards him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u121	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u122	He is right; there is another separate debate: is the protection of fundamental rights good, or should it include additional provisions? However, it remains difficult to change into one provision now and not to have that general discussion. The D66 Group could also come up with an initiative proposal to opt for such a general restriction clause. This would do justice to the point which apparently lives with the D66 Group, whereas it does not simply refer to one provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u123	Agreed. For the sake of clarity, I am referring to the comments made on pages 54 and 55 of the 2010 opinion of the State Committee. At the bottom of page 54, it says: "The State Commission nevertheless considers it desirable to lay down some substantive conditions for restricting constitutional fundamental rights in the Constitution'. The Committee therefore says that this is necessary on the basis of the use of those substantive requirements for the restriction of fundamental rights. The Committee then writes on page 55: "In view of these considerations, the State Committee recommends that a provision be incorporated into the Constitution which imposes some general, substantive requirements on restrictions on fundamental rights." So it is exactly as Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Bruins Slot say: then you can make a decision. Either we settle it now, in the course of the discussion of this article, because we think it is necessary. Or D66 comes up with an elegant way to do it. The speakers have made various proposals for this. I'll weigh it up. That's what they hear from me. In any case, I have done my best to respond to the doubts expressed by Mr Van der Staaij's group and Mrs Bruins Slot's group, and also those of Mr Koopmans. They say that elegant legislation is worth something. Of course, D66 totally agrees with that. But we are also dealing with a rapidly changing world. Mrs Van Engelshoven's contribution to yesterday's debate was precisely about the system of constitutional changes. That actually comes out beautifully in here. Sometimes you need another constitutional change to ensure that the Constitution also covers the practice sufficiently. Mr President, I must now try to conclude. I have already said a great deal of what I would have said without being interrupted. The Human Rights College has therefore proposed the full use of Article 8 of the ECHR. That is why we have proposed this addition. That's the Minister's advice. That disappoints the D66 Group. We will consider what to do with the amendment. Furthermore, Mr Koopmans made the point that the difference between "important" and "necessary" did not seem clear to him. I think it is very important to make up for the difference between 'important' and 'necessary'. That actually has to do with the word 'property'. It is important to protect us from terrorism, for example. This is important in the context of the objective of protecting national security. But in D66's view, that is what the discussion should always be about, so it is not necessary to listen to everyone and break the secret of telecommunications. The fact that you think something is important does not mean that you consider all the means to achieve that goal necessary. A balance must be struck. Through what we add through the amendment, we want to make that balance tighter. What means do you have to use to serve the purpose? We want to make sure that this balance is made better. That must be more than just saying: national security always justifies an exception to fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u124	I very much appreciate that Mr Verhoeven is giving this clear answer. But I'd like to get some more clarity. Based on underlying legislation, such as the Wiv, the AIVD will say that it is very important for national security to follow certain potential terrorists. Mr Verhoeven can then say: it may be important, but it is not important enough, because it must be necessary. You'll get a category of dangers to national security that he doesn't think are important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u125	No, that's a really wrong explanation. I go completely away from the Constitution, I go to the underlying legislation and the importance of national security. We have always had debates about this in this Chamber. Every group in this Chamber considers national security to be important. But how are we going to serve that national security? Then some parties say: we need to tap citizens and we need to see all kinds of communication to make sure that we can catch those people. That's their way of serving national security. D66 doesn't always think that's necessary. Often it turns out that the information is already available, so you don't have to see everything in order to guarantee that same security. This is really about the way you want to protect national security. We do not believe that some of the interventions proposed by Mr Koopmans' cabinet and party are necessary, but we consider the objective pursued by this to be equally important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u126	Short follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr Verhoeven says that in certain cases he does not want to allow the AIVD to investigate what it considers important in the light of national security. Despite the fact that this is done on the basis of a law, despite the fact that there is independent review and despite the fact that we all stand up here for the freedom and privacy of people, to lay down in the Constitution and all the underlying laws, Mr Verhoeven still considers a certain category not important enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u128	I am assuming Mr Koopmans' good intentions and that he is really not acting like he doesn't understand me by saying three more times how important it is to catch terrorists. The campaign's over. We both consider national security to be important, even just as important. But we do not think that a number of measures to achieve this national security are necessary, where the VVD considers them necessary. There's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u129	Have you finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u130	I think so. I have dealt with the state committee; thank you for answering my questions. I shall come back to my amendment, but Members will see that. I have tried to clarify the difference between important and necessary. In any case, I have tried to respond to Members' questions. Thanks for the patience. I call Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u131	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u132	I'd like to finish the second term for lunch. That is why I am going to pay more attention to speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u133	I'll do it in a minute and a half. Our solution must be technologically independent. I would also like to mention the complications of the augmented reality. You may communicate directly and through a third party. This brings us into conflict with Articles 10 and 13. If we are technologically independent, let us also take that broader dimension into account. In addition, there is safety. It is very important that we unite in our concerns about national security. I understand that Mr Verhoeven is very concerned about this. But let us not make it even more difficult than it already is by defending security and making the very heavy test proposed by the Minister even heavier. I don't think that's in the best interest of all of us. Furthermore, it is about austerity: let us not make the bill more difficult than it already is. Let us, as Mr Van der Staaij says, ensure that it fits within the system of the Constitution. Therefore, let us not incorporate difficult solutions in this way through Strasbourg, the European Court of Human Rights. If necessary, there is also the formal law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u134	Madam President. I thank the Minister for his reply. He has clearly answered all kinds of questions. I can be brief in this second term, because I have only one question left, namely whether the Minister can also assess whether this text proposal has met all the serious concerns that were raised earlier in the previous discussion. Then we have a clear view that there can also be broad support on these points and, after such a long time, we can finally quickly return Article 13, in modern form, to the Constitution. Finally, I would like to comment on the small debate with Mr Verhoeven on the amendment. I would like to make it clear to all of you that I really believe that a rapidly changing world is not a convincing argument to undermine the restriction system of the Constitution. It is not so much a question of conservative or progressive, but I see that it is really about careful or careless handling of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much. It's finally gonna happen. There was already a first proposal in 1997. We have gone on for many years now and we need to adapt the Constitution to digital technology. Article 13 is about to say that everyone has the right to respect his letter and telecommunications secrecy. But that only applies to infringements by the government. However, this is very limited compared to possible infringements by multinationals, such as Google and Facebook, commercial stakeholders. That puts this whole discussion in a different perspective. I agree with Mr Koopmans that we will have to have this discussion with each other. Another discussion we need to have is the question of what exactly is national security. What exactly is a state secret? We will soon have that discussion in this Chamber. Finally, I would like to say a few words about my amendment. I don't think you're protecting the rule of law by tearing it down. I am always in favour of having infringements of fundamental rights accompanied by a legal test. Now that counts with letter secret, but not with telephone and telegraph secrecy. The Minister has chosen to abolish it for all, but of course you can do it for all. You can make the political choice to allow a judicial test. We have made that choice, and I therefore strongly recommend the amendment. However, I also believe that after so many years we should achieve this renewal of the Constitution and therefore support the proposal for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you. We are now going to listen to Mrs Özütok on behalf of the Labour Party. I mean, on behalf of GroenLinks. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed GroenLinks. I thank the Minister for answering my questions and the explanations he has given. I understand the desire for clarity and technical independence, given the technical possibilities that are indeed going through quite a lot of growth. However, my question has not been answered as to why the protection of letter secrets cannot remain. I still don't understand. The Minister stated in his reply that the letter was still used on a limited scale. Still, he's trying to get the protection off of it. I would like to hear what the problems are in practice, because the Council of State has also said that it is not aware that the current secret of letters presents problems in practice. I therefore maintain my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u138	I have a question about that. The SP has made a choice. We are in favour of judicial review in all communications: letter and telecommunications. That's your choice. You can also choose not to do either, as the Minister suggests. He doesn't want to do it with letter secrets and telecommunications. However, I find it remarkable to allow the distinction now contained in the Constitution to continue. Why a judicial test if something is in a letter, but not a judicial test if it is in an e-mail, or otherwise communicated? I find that choice rather remarkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u139	The Minister made it clear what the three criteria are with regard to the differences between telecommunications and letters. I am concerned with the question: if there is legal protection, what is the reason why we should depart from it now? What the problems are is not clear to me. I can partly support the desire to be technologically independent and to protect that in the Constitution. But I do need clarification on what the practical problems are with the letter secret.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u140	No, it's a matter of judicial review in the event of a breach of a letter secret. That is what GroenLinks wants to maintain, but not with all other means of communication. So if you send an e-mail, a text, or send a message via other forms of telecommunications, GroenLinks says that the judicial test is not necessary. I don't understand. Then why is it necessary for a letter, but not for all forms of telecommunications? I don't think that's clear. The SP has made a clear choice: we are in favour of judicial review in all forms of communication. The Minister has also made a clear choice: he does not want a judicial review in any form of communication. That makes sense; I disagree, but that's one way of putting it. But what GroenLinks does is kind of weird to me. It says: if the information is in a letter, then there is a need for judicial review, but if exactly the same information is in an e-mail, then it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u141	It may be necessary, so I would like to know what the practical problems are with the current letter secret. I think I made that very clear. Mr Van Raak and I continue to disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you very much. Then we will listen to Mrs Bruins Slot on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answers and also for his clarification about the cloud regime. I would like to thank Mr Verhoeven for taking up the substance of his amendment. I have another question about traffic records. The Minister has, I believe, clearly explained what the appropriate regimes are about traffic data. This concerns Articles 10 and 13 of the Constitution. However, on page 8 in the note following the report, he describes a number of additional issues relating to the operation in practice. We have also talked here about working in practice. The Minister writes that the legislator and the judge are primarily appropriate to achieve a certain protection regime that is appropriate in case the government wants access to the traffic data. The Minister writes that the legislator may determine the appropriate protection regime of traffic data if the government wishes to obtain access to such data for the purpose of exercising a particular competence. Can the Minister give us a concrete example of this? What legislation does he have in mind? What is a designated appropriate protection regime? There's a second element. The Minister is right to point out that there are a lot of new developments in this area. We cannot yet predict what the traffic data of the future are, or the aggregated traffic data that Mr Verhoeven was talking about. The Minister writes very comfortingly that the instruments of legislation are adequate to respond to this new development. My question then is what these instruments are which the Minister says he can use well to deal with new developments regarding traffic data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u144	Thank you very much. I'm gonna take a look at the minister to see if he's gonna be able to answer right away. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their broad support for the proposal before us. Amendments have been tabled by a number of parties. I'll be right back. If these amendments do not succeed, I hope that I can get the parties concerned to support the proposal. I'll discuss the motions first. The Verhoeven motion in part No. 13 actually has the character of an amendment. Mr Bosma pointed that out. Referring back to the discussion we have just had, the motion states that the traffic data should be considered as being taken below. However, we have had the right discussion about whether this is the intention of the proposal before us, and it is not. I therefore advise against this motion. The same applies to the Verhoeven motion in part No. 14. We talked about the initial intention to give that article of the Constitution horizontal effect, which also binds organisations and companies to a form of letter secret. On the advice of the Council of State, we have chosen not to do so. I therefore advise against asking the government to examine how possible additional constitutional protection can be developed. You then actually come back to the desire to settle it in the Constitution. For me, therefore, the constitutional aspect is a reason to discourage the motion. I can very well imagine that at some point the Chamber is looking for an opportunity to go into a completely different matter. Several speakers have pointed out that we are talking here about how citizens are protected from breaches of privacy by the government, while at the same time there are companies that make very large use of the fact that someone simply clicks "yes" or "okay." All kinds of privacy are then shared with multinationals, while that person has no idea where it's going. That is a real problem. I can very well imagine that this is being discussed by the Chamber and that this should perhaps lead to international regulation. So I agree. Mr Van der Staaij asked if I think there will be sufficient support for it if we do so. I think so. Frankly, this proposal also seeks to receive such support on a number of points of discussion. Following Mr Van Raak's contribution...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u146	Before you comment on Mr Van Raak's contribution, Mr Verhoeven has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u147	I'll come back to my first motion for a second. As Mr Bosma said, perhaps you should make an amendment. However, if I am going to explicate this by means of an amendment, I am again undermining the technology-neutral nature of the law. I told the minister I understand he doesn't want to. That is why I have tabled a motion which, as usual, begins with the text 'The Chamber, heard the debate'. By tabling a motion referring to this debate, I try to point out the technology-neutral law in a certain way. The Minister may, of course, discourage the motion; he has already done so. However, I would like to point out that it is consistent to express a vote in the Chamber by means of a motion and thus give an interpretation to a technology-neutral law, as the Minister himself proposes. That is why I tabled a motion and not an amendment. In the latter case, I wouldn't be doing it technology-neutral anymore. I would make a distinction between metadata and substantive communication, and we do not really want that. After all, it is no longer technologically neutral.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u148	Thank you for the explanation. I understand that. I hope that Mr Verhoeven understands that it is important, when writing the legal history of a constitutional change, that the scope and scope of the Constitution be discussed consistently from box K. It's not the cabinet's intention to put it that way. That's why I'm dissuading the motion. Mr Verhoeven says he understands that, so we agree. As a result of Mr Van Raak's contribution, there seemed to be a misunderstanding that the present draft Constitution no longer provides for judicial protection in the event of infringements of the traffic in messages. That is not the case. On the contrary, it is even being extended to those messages which are not covered by national security. The current Constitution does not provide constitutional protection and the new Constitution does. For example, if it is a commercial interest or other legitimate interests in their own right, the new Constitution will no longer allow it, unless a judge gives an authorisation to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u149	Mr Van Raak has another clarifying question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u150	The Minister is absolutely right about that. Thank you! However, I was, of course, mainly concerned with the observation that there is some imbalance in the Green Left amendment. That was the point of my comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u151	I understand. Despite the disagreement between GroenLinks and the SP, I hope that we can organise one big front that will ultimately support the unmodified proposal. The answer to Mrs Özütok's question as to why I do not include letter secrets under the same regime as the current law is therefore that the government expressly prefers to make this technology independent and that the government considers it decisive. I therefore do not dissuade the amendment because of its ease or scale, but because of the principle that we can finally make the Constitution technically independent on this point. That is what we want to do. That is the answer to the question why we feel this way. Mrs Bruins Slot referred to the discussion that we had and in which I said that the completion of which traffic data may or may not be covered by Article 13 could eventually also be done with ordinary legislation. Yes, even if there is a law, this can be further clarified by the judge. Mrs Bruins Slot asked me to give an example. You should always be careful when ministers start thinking for themselves, but when I do, I am thinking, for example, of registering registration certificates and their traffic in the city. This could be for parking policy or traffic flows. In that case, the ordinary legislator could have a discussion about whether there is a breach of privacy and whether you should want to do so. That can be played out there. The Constitution itself does not limit this. I think I've answered all the questions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u152	Except for one last burning question from Mrs. Bruins Slot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u153	Is it sufficient instruments to which the Minister refers in writing, only legislation or are there other forms? And are they various forms of legislation: lower and higher? I would like to know which instruments these are. That also says something about the speed with which you can make further rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u154	In a way, there is a hierarchy, because it can be regulated by law but it can sometimes also be left to the General Local Regulations. There is also such a thing as legal form, in which case law can lead to something being regarded as factually established in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u155	Mr Koopmans also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u156	Mr Verhoeven's second motion was rejected by the Minister. I understand that, but I think the debate initiated by Mr Verhoeven is extremely important for this House. I do not want to go along with that, because I think that the Chamber should take the initiative on this point in order to work out and manage the debate on horizontal privacy. Mr Verhoeven's motion asks the government to take the initiative. I actually think that is our job, but I do not want to see this as a contradiction. I would ask the Minister whether, if we do not go along with this motion, and if we take the initiative ourselves, we can count on the active support of the Minister to work this out as quickly and fully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u157	The answer is yes. In fact, if the Chamber asked us from the government to do something about horizontal privacy protection, I would have to discuss with colleagues whether this is primarily with V and J, with BZK or anywhere else, but I can imagine that we would then decide in the Cabinet to respond to it and to do so actively. The answer is, in any case, yes, but my objection concerns the link to the constitutional framework. But I fully agree with Mr Verhoeven on the importance of this. Mr Koopmans agrees with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u158	Anyway, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u159	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u160	That seems very spacious to me. Thank you very much. That seems to me to be a good conclusion to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-3.u161	The votes on the amendments and the motions will take place next Tuesday. After lunch, we will continue to offer the annual report of the National Ombudsman for 2016. The order of business will then be followed.
