ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, dear family and friends in the public gallery, today is the last time we will meet in this composition. Tomorrow, the new room will be installed. Some of those present will be sworn in again tomorrow, but 71 of our colleagues will be saying goodbye today. Some of them have expressed their desire to stop membership, some have not been listed by their own party and some have to say goodbye as a result of the election results. That is the way it works in our democracy: the electorate decides who can represent him or her, and the electorate spoke on 15 March. Farewell is part of politics, but it is not always easy. Especially for those who are last here today, this is a special moment, loaded and with some melancholy. Of course, we do not allow that moment to pass unnoticed. I am now going to address all 71 colleagues personally; you will be prepared, because this is going to be a really long time. After that, I will give the longest outgoing MP the floor. It is a good practice in this house that this nestor has the last word. I see everyone watching: who could that be? At least it's not Geert Wilders, Kees van der Staaij or myself. We're staying. You'll find out later. We're going to say goodbye to a few MPs in a special way. I'm going to see the outgoing members first. That's what I do on seniority. I'll start with the MP who was the shortest here. Why don't you sit down for it, I'd say. I know where everyone is, but it would help if the Members in question raised their hands and I could look them in the eye. I'll start with Jock Fellowship. "A change in injury time," that's what you called your coming to the Chamber. You did get a serious wallet, didn't you? Even if the time was short, you wanted to give substance to parliamentary membership. Your maiden speech was about child labour. In this contribution, you managed to link up the personal and party politics nicely. Of course, that is not surprising for a liberal at heart. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u2	Rien van der Velde. You have been clear about it from the beginning: you would replace Sjoera Dikkers and you did not aspire to a new period in the Chamber. In the six months you have been a Member of Parliament, we have come to know you as an optimist. You can't do that if you were born in Nagele, the symbol of the creative society, designed by architects Aldo van Eyck and Gerrit Rietveld. In this house, your plea for a quality mark for animal and environmental products has sounded clear. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u3	Amma Asante. You gave a moving maiden speech in September. In that you told me about yourself. Born in Ghana. Daughter of a former factory worker and a chambermaid. In your almost 200 days as a Member of Parliament, you were present in a pleasant way. You immediately took your role and organised an extensive hearing on conflicting values at school. You also received a substantial amendment from the Chamber on training abroad. In everything, your message was that we should always look at the possibilities of people, starting with children. You are now an experience richer and I am sure you can use this experience anywhere. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u4	Daniel van der Ree. Like Rien van der Velde, you clearly said that you came to the Chamber for a temporary replacement. You have a nice nose for files that are a little boring and dry. As a city council member in Amsterdam, for example, you dealt with land affairs. You did that at exactly the right time, because every house owner in Amsterdam knows how much there is to do around leases. You also manifested yourself directly in the Chamber. You've been a Member of Parliament for six months, but leave a sympathetic impression. Never tired to tambourize on the opportunities of robotisation and lifelong learning. I certainly believe that the combination of experience in Amsterdam and in The Hague will come in handy in the future. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u5	Remco Bosma. "A leap into the deep end," you called your coming to the Chamber. Yet you were not afraid to make your own sound. For example, you voted as one of the seven VVD chamber members in favour of the initiative legislative proposal on organ donation, just like Daniel van der Ree, by the way. Before you entered the Chamber, you gave the Parliament a 9. An A was only there for the birth of your children. I hope you were able to hold those 9 here during your time and look back on a fine time as a Member of Parliament. Thank you. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u6	Harm Brouwer. Three times is a charm. You've replaced a pregnant colleague twice. Just before the summer recess of 2016, you were installed as MP for the third time. In the group we said goodbye to you every time. And yes, there he was again! Some kind of Heinty Davids. Always cheerful and cheerful. As a Drent, you were able to deal with the problem of shrinking areas. You also spent four days behind bars for an internship at Van Mesdag Clinic. I'm glad you got out, too. Hopefully, at municipal level, you will be able to re-devote to the bottom of society. That's where your heart is. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u7	Judith Swinkels. When you became a Member of Parliament, you jumped on a moving train that was already a long way away. That's what you did with suitcases full of knowledge and experience. As a lawyer and later as a judge, you knew a lot about security and justice. In the Chamber, you often treated complicated legislative proposals as a spokesman. You did that in a solid way, always well-argued and driven from the content. And even if the Chamber turned upside down, if you weren't convinced of the legal basis, you weren't in. I liked to see that. It is very important for the Chamber to have such legal expertise. We're gonna miss it now. Your staff especially glorifies your empathy, your ability to connect and your pleasant way of working. That's a nice compliment. You leave politics, but I hope and trust that your knowledge and experience will be preserved for our rule of law. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u8	Joyce Vermue. A year and a half you were in the Chamber. You started your maiden speech with rules from a poem by Remco Campert, which I also like: "Resistance does not start with big words but with small deeds." You have done a lot of small deeds, which have a great deal of scope at the same time. Thus, you provided a limit on the voluntary parental contribution. You arranged 10 million extra for the Dutch cultural sector and repeatedly asked for attention to be paid to online sales of medicines. You also advocated a study to strengthen the budget law of the States-General. And if you come to The Hague again, hopefully you can drive through a toll-free Westerschelde tunnel. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u9	Borrows the Lange. Without anyone knowing, you have made one of the most substantial contributions to the House of Representatives. Recently, I was invited to reveal an aed cabinet with you. It's just been hanging on the façade of the Chamber Building. And there were more unexpected actions of yours. In February you organized the "Leendert listens bike tour," a bike tour along special initiatives in Voorschoten, Wassenaar, Lisse and Noordwijk. Citizens were given the opportunity to bring their initiatives to the attention of the House of Representatives, you collected impressions and stories that you could use in your daily work and you took a nice day off. You referred to membership as the honorary division of decision-making. You were therefore very meticulous and conscientious in everything you did. I'm sure that's gonna come in handy in other places, too. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u10	Jeroen van Vineyards. You make no secret that the farewell of the Chamber is too early for you. In your maiden speech, you quoted former SDAP member George van den Bergh: "A democracy without respect for the personality of every human being commits betrayal of its own being." You also cited Molly Geertsema and Frits Bolkestein, as two important sources of inspiration. With such a great heart for our parliamentary democracy and the people working in it, it is no surprise that you would like to be a Member of Parliament again. What you're typing is that you seem calm and ambivalent, like a real gentleman. No one knows how the future goes. In 2012, we said goodbye to you. In 2014 you flowed in the middle of a period. You never know. In recent years, you have shown that your interest is broad: from gambling to acquisition fraud. Today we say goodbye to you, but I do not rule out the fact that we are going to see each other again. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u11	Hayke Veldman. As a Member of Parliament, you fell in the butter with your nose. You were allowed to dig into the Environment Act. The media, in my view, did not pay enough attention to this. I was sorry to hear that. It was a historic bill, bringing together about fifty laws. Minister Schultz and all MPs, from left to right, moved together and managed to find each other. In the debate on this, you cited your home town of Nijmegen as an example. The second bridge over the Waal, a bridge of 1.4 kilometres long, required 148 permits. That is one permit per ten metres, you said in the debate. In doing so, you summarised the amount of regulation that citizens face. In the Chamber, you tried to simplify the rules. If it's up to you, local authorities will do much more themselves, and there will be a one-stop shop for citizens. If that succeeds, I think many people will be grateful that they are no longer sent from the locker to the wall. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u12	Henk Leenders. There are MPs you should look for the link between their personality and their wallet. With you it is obvious; it was logical for you to become a spokesperson of nature. You are a real natural man, an outdoor man, raised between cows, pigs, chickens, apples, pears and plums. "Whoever has this wallet," you said, "can put on his boots and get in the mud." Perhaps it is precisely because of that personal affinity that you have always kept such good contacts with society, with the people who stand with two feet in the mud, the people who matter. Also in other ways you have always searched for the connection. In your eyes, nature doesn't stand on its own. There are links with agriculture, the environment and health. You leave, but leave the new Nature Protection Act to which you have made a substantial contribution. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u13	Perjan Moors. "I've felt liberal all my life," you once said. And indeed, with your background as an independent entrepreneur you are the prototype VVD'er. You have always been interested in politics and loved working in the heart of Dutch democracy. As a representative of the people, you also carried out the liberal sound. Within your portfolio, you committed yourself to more self-responsibility. You were also active at European level. And with result: the position paper on European Arbo legislation, which you drafted together with John Kerstens, was well received by the European Commission. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u14	Tjitske Siderius. Mrs Siderius is 37 weeks pregnant and therefore not present today. But this goodbye is live, so I'm gonna say something to her anyway. When you became a Member of Parliament, you knew the Chamber from the inside out. You were a member of the group for four years. In 2012, you became a popular representative with the appropriate education, childcare and youth assistance portfolio. Together with Mr Van Meenen, you presented a law for smaller classes. You did research among the staff in special education and in child care. We have come to know you as a very wary Member of Parliament, although I think your heart ultimately lies in practice, in tangible solutions rather than large structures. The kitchen table conversations and the large-scale design of them were a disaster to you. "Your future," you said, "is with a social organisation in the social domain." Education, culture or care, closer to the people. I know that's gonna work. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u15	Yasemin Cegerek. You seem like a modest person. You're someone who can easily step over her own shadow. But you can also be surprisingly direct. If anything hits you, the gloves will go off. In addition to the environment and spatial planning, you were also spokesperson for the circular economy. And that's what you did with verve. From the role of rapporteur, you were also closely involved in the Energy Conference, which we organised as part of the EU Presidency. You were active in Europe anyway. You were present at climate conferences in Paris and Marrakesh and you were also often found in Brussels. In addition to your official portfolio, you had an opinion about our society, and you made it clear, both in the group and outside. In a written document, you said that as a representative of the people, you see it as your task to remove prejudices about citizens of non-Dutch descent. In your words: "So that everyone is judged by who he or she is, and not by where he or she comes from." Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u16	Rudmer Heerema. You entered the Chamber in September 2013. We also knew that: three hours before you were sworn in, you rang the bell of the traditional Alkmaar cheese market. That didn't happen in Alkmaar, your hometown, but here in front of the door, on the Square. We also saw Henk Krol, who was transported like a creamy old cheese by two cheese carriers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u17	Yeah, really! You'd rather move yourself. We met you as the sportsman of the Chamber. You swam in the national youth selection, golfing, running fast. I'm always so tired of sports, but you seem to be getting energy from it, so I've heard. In the summer of 2014 you made the news. You wanted to shoot the legally protected gull. I am looking at Marianne Thieme: we have never heard of that proposal again. So now we can say that every sport is really your thing, except for the shooting. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u18	Marith Volp. You came to the Chamber as a general practitioner in 2013. And so did you, on Fridays mostly. Even here in the Chamber, you performed effectively a few times. You have managed to accommodate a few fainting MPs in time and you have always been able to find staff who needed medical advice in the building. Politics was, as it were, walking into your office in Amsterdam Slotermeer, Amsterdam-West. The inhabitants of this district suffer from social and economic problems. For example, they die eight years earlier than average. The Parool called your wallet the trash well, but that's not right. You always worked for those vulnerable people. You've always thought about these vulnerable people. You went over the Drinking and Horeca Act and put forward an initiative bill with colleagues that would make it illegal to have sex with prostitutes suspected of being victims of trafficking in human beings. Even if it is no longer in the Chamber, in the future, people who have suffered less will never call upon you in vain. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u19	Robbery of Laar. You entered the Chamber in 2013 as a side-intromer. We immediately met you as a robust and passionate man. Some people seem pretty pissed off about you. You've been arrested by the military police in the State Passage with a gym bag. You said, "I'm sorry, I'm a Member of Parliament." To which they said, yes, yes, that's what they all say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u20	You have a great heart for development cooperation and fought against child labour and sexual abuse of children. Despite a food allergy, you went to Tanzania, Ethiopia and Vietnam with the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation on a working visit. The kitchen staff in Ethiopia handled that creatively. Each dish you were not allowed to eat was marked: Please don't eat Mister Roelof.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u21	You're leaving, but you're leaving something. If the Chamber agrees to your initiative for the recognition of Dutch sign language, the weekly press conference will now be accompanied by a sign interpreter. Thank you very much. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u22	Eric Smaling. I know exactly where you are! You are the Great Friendly Giant of the Chamber. As soon as you threatened to get up, the messengers already ran to the chair to raise it. If the messengers forgot to lower it again afterwards, the next speaker had a problem, namely that you only saw the head. And even if we say goodbye to you today, I showed the new Members of Parliament last Monday where the buttons are at the speaker's seat. Your maiden speech was about plant protection products. You said: 'That seemed incredibly boring to me, but on second thought it is not that bad'. It is your humour and your content, thought-out but above all friendly way of debating that make you able to get along with everyone. An exception might be Minister Kamp. In your view, he could run a lot faster to implement motions on the Drenthe peat colonies. You also crossed swords about the gas extraction in Groningen. But Drenthe and Groningen aren't the only places that make your heart beat faster. You have a fondness for Africa. That's not so crazy. It's the continent of red earth. You must appeal to that, as a "redneck" with a huge knowledge of everything that has to do with the soil. I certainly do not rule out the fact that you will be able to find much in Africa now that there is more time. Of course, that's fine, on one condition: that you will be back in time to honour yourself during the Tower Chess Simultan. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u23	Manon Fokke. Your Home Office portfolio kept you closely involved with the local government, but your eyes opened when you were pregnant with Berend. In the meantime, the second one is on its way. At that time, you were a Member of Parliament and turned closer to home in politics, in Maastricht. You then realized that that is where your heart lies, with the government closest to the citizen. Still, we haven't noticed anything of your homesickness in the Chamber. As a loyal member of the working method committee, you were very concerned about the proper conduct of this house. Thanks to you, there was a whistleblower arrangement. You were an indispensable member of the ICT Committee. And thanks to you, the consultative referendum has been added to the arsenal of opportunities for citizens to correct politics. I don't know if everyone's happy with that, but we've clearly noticed that it's loosened something in society. With you we say goodbye to a Member of Parliament with a lot of legal knowledge, a Member of Parliament who sought the cooperation and always did a decent job. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u24	Sultan Günal-Gezer. You are not one of the most well-known MPs, but that does not always mean anything. Of the nine motions you have tabled or co-tabled, no less than eight have been adopted. You formed a great duo with Angelien Eijsink in the field of defense. You have received a great deal of media attention in your fight against piracy off the Somali coast. You love the Chamber of Acts. In that room, in one of those books, your words will be stored tangibleally. These words bear witness to the love of your parents, who have always supported you unconditionally in your new country, the Netherlands; so you said in your maiden speech. Sometimes there are circumstances that make membership very difficult. In your case, it certainly was when your beloved husband Ömer died last year. We wish you much strength and happiness in your new phase of life. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u25	Duco Hoogland. Every morning you make a careful decision. Flowers, cubes, hell blue or green? An impressive wardrobe, which fits your cheerful and exuberant appearance, which allows you to walk to the Room in the morning behind the pram with sons Sef and Moos. You always seem to be on the move. These are not by chance the subjects for which you have worked most in recent years: rail, public transport and car traffic. I know you like to run. You seem to be setting impressive times. You don't seem to be able to go hard enough, I understand. Although, of staged mopeds, you shouldn't have anything. An undercover operation led you to discover that three in the four BOVAG garages are willing to perform a scooter. And there was that little corporate accident when you advised the PvdA to vote against Mayor Van der Laan's proposal and the Amsterdam PvdA to introduce a mustache duty. Yes, it continues to haunt you. All Amsterdam MPs in the group revolted. Luckily, that little accident was fixed. So you are again: you listen to arguments. You are leaving the Chamber now, but I bet we'll see you flash again in the future. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u26	Roald van der Linde. You came from the Treasury Department. The image that is about that is still a bit official, boring, I say. In recent years, you have developed from a politician with an official touch to a politician's pur sang. What remained was your reliability. You were present at all committee activities and were always willing to replace the chairman of the committee. You're a Member of Parliament who people can count on. Involved and accessible. You were not of the long-winded stories, but liked short and clear lyrics. In a debate on the amendment of Book 7 BW in connection with the introduction of an energy performance fee, you said: "In plain Dutch: as a tenant you get a better house, you get a much lower energy bill every month, and in return you pay something extra to your landlord." It can be as simple as that. I think that combination of friendly and firm will bring you a lot more. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u27	Sjoerd Potters. It was never your ultimate goal to go into politics, but you grew up with it. After September 11th and the murder of Pim Fortuyn, you thought it was time to stop looking along the sidelines and take political responsibility for yourself. That started at local level, as alderman in Waalwijk. An important lesson you took in the Chamber is that happiness is not spread across the country from The Hague. You believe in your own strength. This also sounded clear in your spokespersonships, for example when the Participation Act was introduced. In your maiden speech, you said that you like to be close to people, that you want to make your own environment better. That direct contact is ahead of you. You have not accepted your appointment, but again choose the local government, this time in De Bilt. It may never have been your ultimate goal to enter politics or governance, but the public case seems to be in your blood. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u28	Grace Tanamal. In your maiden speech, you considered the fact that you were the first woman of Moluccan descent in the House of Representatives. You said that your parents would have been proud if they could have seen that their lessons were studying hard, doing your best, taking chances and taking care of each other, and finally brought you into the heart of our democracy. In the Chamber, you dealt with employee insurance, family care and volunteering. But your most important achievement is perhaps your initiative paper on neighbourhood rights. Powerful neighborhoods by powerful citizens. That was at the heart of the proposal. More control for residents. That commitment at local level hasn't gone unnoticed. A resident of Founding Vecht sent a letter about you to the Volkskrant. I quote: "We never appealed to her in vain. Never give up. Keep going. Untiring. A top-notch one." Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u29	Ronald Vuijk. You exude peace and modesty. That came in handy in your defense spokespersonship. Before entering the Chamber, you were alderman in Delft and Central Delfland. So you had the necessary political baggage. In addition, you had experience in the military. You told me about it in your maiden speech. Your military service was in 1985 and coincided with the thirteenth Elfstedentocht. You were in an army tent on the moors at the time, without central heating. "A little getting used to" you said a little euphemistic. In the Chamber, you debated all kinds of defence issues, including the JSF. But outside the Chamber, too, you moved when it came to defense. An important lesson you gave burglars: never hide in the garden of a defense spokesperson. You recorded from minute to minute how the police arrested a burglar in your backyard. You took pictures of your garden and put it on Facebook and Twitter. You complimented the police, but received in response from your followers: take a new turf. But if I know you a little bit, I think you'll make more time for the public business in the future than for your garden. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u30	John Kerstens. In the Chamber, you've always been a union man. You have made clear what is and is a decent labour market for you. Besides, you didn't just look at the common man, like the bricklayer on the dock. All of a sudden, I was thinking about Hans Spekman's video. I don't know why, but that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u31	Flexwork in general had your particular attention. You opposed the exploitation of Poland, Bulgaria and the Philippines. Your experience in the union also came in handy as chairman of difficult committee meetings, which you always managed to manage. But even if you had your own debates, you knew how to do it very well. You sometimes had the right task of defending cabinet policy. Your colleagues didn't make it easy for you. But you remained calm and continued to seek cooperation in those areas where there was agreement. It's a pleasure for you. We also saw this in the twitschritties with colleague Paul Ulenbelt. It could crack, but in the end you could still go through one door, as evidenced by the many amendments and motions you submitted together. I hope you can hold on to that quality, that balance. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u32	Norbert Klein. You entered the Chamber with Henk Krol. You chose 50PLUS because your previous party, the VVD, was you to the right. In the beginning there was some confusion about who was now the real 50PLUS. But you've gotten through all the commotion. In the beginning, the parliamentary process took some getting used to. You said: 'You must know the rules of procedure, the difference between general consultations and procedural meetings. Everything's moving fast here. There are only two of us, and that requires sharp choices." When you moved on alone, you chose to broaden your vision. In this way, you, the original grant specialist, put forward proposals for legislation on the abolition of electoral districts and on the flexibilisation of old age pensions. You issued an own-initiative paper on an unconditional basic income. And, last but not least, you had the answer to the pressing question why elephants have pink toenails. The answer was so he wouldn't stand out in a strawberry field. There was no laughing then, and now there is no laughing. It's a bad joke!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u33	It was a bad joke! Whatever you do, Mr Klein, I wish you every success. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u34	Reinette Klever. You're the only PVV room member leaving today. With good heart, you said in an interview. After one and a half years of First and more than four years of Lower House, you want the balance between work and private to go to the other side and more time for your family in Ermelo. You leave with two records in your name. You are the PVV member who has most often managed to get an amendment adopted: three times in total. You are also the Member of Parliament who managed to get the unflinching Minister Camp on the closet most often. And there was another certainty. Whether it was wind power or gas extraction in Groningen, it almost always resulted in a clash between you and Jan Vos. Often that led to a vote upliftment. In one of your debates, you promised Jan Vos a few earplugs. I don't know if those earplugs have ever been there, but that fierce tone tells me a lot about the drive with which you defended your views and showed the PVV sound. What struck me as President was that you, as one of the few, never negotiated the number of minutes spoken or the number of interruptions. You had just finished your story and managed to formulate your message sharply. You looked from the content at what could and could not be supported by the PVV. That's what you did with verve. I've been watching that very closely. Of course, I hope you will find the balance you are looking for, but I also hope that the experience you have gained in Parliament will be preserved for your region, close to home. Thank you very much. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u35	Marit Maij. I know exactly where you are and that also has to do with the following sentence. You're a colorful person. Literally. There is no one who can combine different colors of purple as you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u36	You brought some of your wardrobe from China. You were a diplomat there. It makes you stand out among all those men, I'm sorry to say, in dark suits. Your focus has always been beyond our borders. For example, you played a major role during the parliamentary dimension of the Dutch presidency of the EU and you are an active member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. In the Committee on European Affairs, you were face-to-face. You were always willing to receive international delegations. Colleagues who did not see the importance of it spoke to you about their responsibility. During these visits you showed that you are constructive, but also sharp, that you do not shy away from the confrontation and do not have any difficulty to shake off that diplomatic from time to time. As Brexit rapporteurs, you formed a beautiful duo together with Pieter Ommzigt. In recent months, you visited Brussels, Paris, Dublin and London in a short time. Now that you're leaving the Chamber, I'm afraid Mr. Omtzigt will fall into a black hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u37	You leave with a special award in your pocket. In 2016, you were appointed Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur. But perhaps the best compliment is what Trouw wrote about you in 2014: Marit Maij quietly managed to make the lives of asylum seekers and foreigners a little better. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u38	Arnold Merkies. Today we say goodbye to the financial duo of the SP Group, to you and to Farshad Bashir. You guys had a kind of duo track where you were seamlessly complementing each other. You were general financial spokesman, and he did, among other things, taxation and the Tax Administration. At a question from a journalist or the Treasury portfolio that "defining figures" is not incredibly boring, you said that in the six years that you were a Member of Parliament you have never been bored. In your words: "The crisis has faced us with new and so rigorous problems that you often have to break taboos with completely new solutions." One of your most important achievements is that you managed to get the President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi, to the Chamber for a discussion on monetary policy. That visit was postponed by a few months, which unfortunately means that you will not be able to see it in your position as a Member of Parliament. Draghi says it's his full agenda, but we know he's nervous. With your departure, the Chamber loses a conscientious, dutiful and careful MP. I'm sure you'll be elsewhere, somewhere where the work will be less volatile, because that's what you thought of parliament as an asset. Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mohammed Mohandis. Even for you, this farewell comes too soon. You're still full of plans and energy. Your cover picture on Twitter shows a club of happy young people flapping with their OV-chipkaart. You're standing between them laughing. It shows what you've been working for in the past cabinet period. You have sought equal educational opportunities for all children, regardless of their background, origin or the level of education of their parents. You did that, as I said, with unbridled energy, but at the same time a little quietly. In the light, you played an important role in the negotiations with opposition parties. You yourself are the living example of a stacker in education. You are therefore pleased that as from 1 January, underage MBOs can also travel free of charge by public transport. You have shown yourself how far you can get if you continue, not only in the Chamber, but also as a true Gouwenaar. Perhaps the only Gouwenaar trying to unite Gouda cheese and Moroccan couscous in one dish. I hate to break it to you, but you seem to be trying. You're very involved in that city. You recently got me to work at a play shop with dozens of volunteers. In Gouda and in the Chamber, you stood up especially for young people. There are many young people who recognize themselves in you because of their origins and history. I am sure you will continue to work for these young people outside the Chamber. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u40	Astrid Oosen Bridge. A lot of people are offended when they're called a nerd. Not you. You're reacting with a sweet smile. You and your committee went to work in Estonia and thought it was cool, a country that controls itself as a digital platform. For you, ICT is not a luxury for it, but an issue that is interwoven with all policy areas, be it care, education, tax or security. As the only member of your group, you voted against the new AIVD Act at the beginning of February this year. I am sorry that you yourself have found that membership is not appropriate for you. I think that the people's representatives deserve more people like you, and you learned everything yourself, showing that membership is not only for people with a lot of qualifications. I hope you find something that suits you better. But even more so, I hope that you will remain as authentic and as close to you as you have done in recent years. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u41	Anoushka Schut-Thanks. In your maiden speech, you mentioned Thatcher, one of your great sources of inspiration. You quoted the following quote. "I came to office to change Britain from a dependent to a self-reliant society. From a give-it-to-me to a do-it-yourself nation." It was your main motivation to go into politics. Politics was certainly not new to you at that time. Earlier, you were a policy officer at the VVD Group and political advisor to Minister Edith Schippers. You're one of the VVD room members in total it's about five, I understand that they kept the same portfolio for four years. That has a lot to do with your character. You're persistent, a perseverant. "Let no one ever tell you that anything is impossible," you once said in an interview. Ten years ago, you tore a kneeband. The doctor said sports wouldn't be in it anymore. Within a year, you ran your first half marathon. This perseverance was also reflected in the Chamber work. You were stuck in files and were very well implemented in terms of content. For all the debates, you read in full. You knew not only the main features, but all the details, including complex dossiers such as absenteeism, incapacity for work and implementation issues in social security. All that luggage is gonna be okay. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u42	Michiel Servaes. A Brabander in world politics. With your thorough, quiet and charming way of working, you also showed in the Chamber what your background is: diplomacy. For you, that is not a symbolic policy, but a means of achieving things. When you worked at the London Embassy, your hands started to itch. You said you'd rather be on the buttons than carry out other people's policies. We have come to know you as a Member of Parliament with whom it is pleasant to work with. With Sjoerd Sjoerdsma, you issued an initiative paper on a harmonised European arms export policy, and you worked intensively with the other foreign spokesmen. Together you visited countries like Ukraine, Cuba, Iraq and Armenia. For the scenes you were thoughtful and serious, but in the background you were a colleague with whom you could laugh terribly. With your departure, there will be a gap. I personally see your departure as a great loss; that goes for more colleagues. You're breathing abroad. I hope that you will be able to re-use that experience in another place, in the Netherlands or elsewhere, for world politics. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u43	Jan Vos. You can be a bright one. In recent years, you have had to bite yourself regularly. As an entrepreneur, you were independent and quirky and did not have to agree with anyone. That changed when you joined a group. Group discipline was, to put it mildly, not always devoted to you. For me as chairman, it was always the question where you were in the Chamber; you were never in your place. Sometimes you suddenly emerged from the SP benches; sometimes you were among the officials. As an entrepreneur, you were also used to taking immediate action, but in The Hague you had to navigate between your green ideals and the coalition agreements, between angry Groningers and the unwavering Minister Kamp. As an energy spokesperson, you've done a lot. You managed to get the maximum out of it. You showed us what your ideal is: by 2025 everyone drives electric. Together with a large majority of the Chamber, you gave the following cabinet a spicy assignment: the gas crane in Groningen has to close further. You talked about it at Jeroen Pauw's table, in a studio full of Groningers, just a few hours after you were dressed as Santa Claus at the PvdA Christmas party. You recently found satisfied that after 123 debates, the Minister himself counted it! More and more of your ideas about the climate problem and about fossil raw materials. Sounds like a good result to me. Good luck to you; thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u44	Albert de Vries. Some Members of the House mainly live up to the big issues. That does not apply to you, because you dealt with the very small issues, such as shrinkage. These are subjects that can have a major impact on our society at the same time. An exception is the Environment Act............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That was a huge legislative operation. Together with Hayke Veldman, among others, you have made this a success. That's what you did with Zeeland's determination. You wanted to get things done, whether it was with coalition or opposition parties. You have always shown how important it is to keep politics close to home. In your struggle for a good building law, you were not primarily concerned with the technique of the building, but with the good place to live for everyone, especially for people who are not self-employed in life. In Zeeland, your departure from The Hague will be felt as a lack. I wish you every success. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u45	Loes Ypma. Don't tweet, will you, during this speech? More than ten years ago, you were a social school teacher, and in fact, you always have. From kindergarten to the Cito test, for you the content of education matters. Last month you also convinced the First Chamber of your initiative proposal for the funding of humanist and religious education at public primary schools. You turned your fellow roommates into giggling teenagers when Goedele Liekens taught sex lessons at your invitation. You mainly wanted to show how to teach young people how to define limits in sex and relationships. You are interested in and involved with colleagues, citizens and chamber staff. But people shouldn't be wrong about your friendly, sweet look. Behind the scenes you can be sharp and ambitious. When you were 30, you were alderman in Woerden. With your membership of parliament, combined with your pragmatic approach, you have laid a solid foundation for the future. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u46	Johan Houwers. Together with Roland van Vliet, Jacques Monasch and Norbert Klein you had the largest portfolio in the Chamber, namely: everything. In practice, you focused on spatial planning, public transport, road safety and the environment. Your return to the Chamber was not undisputed. But once that storm lay down, you turned out to be an active and constructive Member of Parliament. You were always prepared to sit in front of general discussions, you knew the procedures and you didn't like long speeches. After more than a quarter of a century in politics, it will get used to getting out. But, as you said yourself, there is a time of coming and a time of going. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u47	Click Yücel. There is a red line to be found in your membership: on the one hand, the government must fight discrimination, but on the other hand, people must also do their best to move forward in society. In this way you have also fought for your own emancipation, by wanting to continue where your environment has long been satisfied. In the Chamber, that red line was expressed by your involvement in the emancipation of women, including the salary they receive. And thanks to you, a teacher or student may not be expelled or refused just because he or she is homosexual. You didn't leave it at all with your ideals, but you were on the boat during the Gay Pride. Also in Istanbul you participated in a boat with many rainbow flags. That was one boat, but as far as you're concerned, it was the beginning of an entire fleet. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u48	Ybeltje Berckmoes-Duindam. I hope I pronounce your first name right. Yeah, thank God. You put yourself, a little outside the spotlight, in the field of emancipation and child regulation, and later also Defence personnel. What you particularly cared about is that both men and women are financially independent. You were also one of the seven VVD room members who were in favour of Pia Dijkstra's own-initiative proposal. With your interview with BNR News radio you leave with a bang. It was a week really: one week before the election campaign started. Everyone was in a rush about your statements. But my only concern was: I hope she doesn't split up!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u49	But you just went ahead, voted along and served the ride. I want to thank you so much for that. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u50	Ingrid de Caluwe. Your interest in politics arose when you were 15 years old. You read books about coups in Africa and the war in Vietnam. When you were 16, you visited the Binnenhof for the first time. You were sold at once. In 2002 that was Pim Fortuyn's time you became politically active. You felt that solutions should be found. It was too easy just to name the problems. In 2011 you entered the Chamber. In your maiden speech, you called yourself a privileged person and considered the social and economic development opportunities we have in our part of the world. We have come to know you as a cheerful, committed and energetic MP. You were a member of almost all the committees and you were also travelling a great deal. You made election observations in Russia, Georgia and Ukraine. In an interview, you said that was the greatest sacrifice of work in the Chamber: the time you have to turn in. You liked to talk about it, but you may also be pleased that there is now more time for everything outside the Binnenhof. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u51	Joost Taverne. Your party is known for the appreciation of the good things in life. But you're pulling the crown. Who else would park a Porsche in the Pleingarage? And who else will leave King Willem-Alexander six seconds at the time of the throne change?It felt like minutes then; yes, that continues to haunt you waiting because he wants to close the knot of his jacket first? You have a sense of style and detail. That's what we see when we see you walking, with your elegant shoes and always, but always, red socks. His socks are now being pointed at. Still? It is, isn't it? No? Today's brown? Oh, okay. I think you're buying them somewhere. I don't think it's "get two, pay one."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u52	And that is what we see in the debate in the Chamber, in your constant meddling in matters of state law and the Constitution. You were the only one against the rest of your group when you did not want to support the third package of aid for Greece. You leave, but your name will occasionally fall here, for example when we talk about the proposal you put forward with Kees van der Staaij to set up a general committee on constitutional matters. Good luck to you and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u53	Karin Straus. In a farewell interview, you made the joke that you're going to bake cakes after membership. To add a bright look in your eyes, it says in the interview "No way!" We have come to know you as an ambitious MP with a great heart for politics and your portfolio. The development of children is close to your heart. You are committed to good and efficient education for all. With your own initiative paper, you also drew attention to education in shrinking areas. You have good memories of the visit you made with the Temporary Committee on Lessons from recent labour migration to Bulgaria and Romania. Mr Ulenbelt and I were there, and I shall come back to that later. I do not believe that we will ever see you again in 'Hel Holland Bakt', because the politicians in you will continue to exist, albeit no longer at national level, but perhaps closer to home. Good luck. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u54	Syura Dikkers. Last year there was a radiant white appearance on the terraces of the Grote Markt in Haarlem. You weren't on a white horse, you were on the back of a grey transport bike. Your prince was Jeroen Recourt, your colleague from the PvdA group, who you fell in love with in the Chamber benches. We thought they were on work visits, but later we heard something else. But your heart is bigger. After your studies, you wanted to save the world, you once told me. You started in Africa and later became director of Stop Aids Now. Once in the House of Representatives, you couldn't bear to see the cuts knocked down on the poorest of the poor. In the Chamber you were, among other things, spokesperson for agriculture and development cooperation, areas that you wanted to see in conjunction with. We were shocked when you became unwell during Question Time last October. Luckily, Marith Volp managed to catch you. You did fall in a charming way, I noticed. We wish you good health as you leave the great world of politics and as a therapist enter the many small worlds of the family. I wish you every success in that. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u55	Fred Teeven. I'm sure you're curious about what I'm going to say. That's everyone, I think. I have experienced you as a Member of Parliament and as Secretary of State for Security and Justice. In all those roles, you were good in your files. As Secretary of State, you once had to be in the Chamber for a debate on, I believe, copyright, but I'm not sure. It's a subject that didn't make your crimefighter heart knock any faster. On the day of the debate, you said to someone who told me again that you didn't know much about it before. But you'd been through all night. You said: "Now I am sure I know three times as well as anyone who is here." That's typical of you as MP, Secretary of State and human. You read in, you bite, you say what you think. I can remember a debate on asylum seekers who have been processed and who have stayed in the church in Amsterdam. It was one night and they were in the public gallery. Together with Sharon Gesthuizen we went a little raging and asked for attention to the people in the public gallery. Then you said, "Yes, I'm sure, but I know a few of them personally; I met them 14 years ago as a prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u56	Then we were angry again, but okay. It's something many people in you appreciate. When you decided to resign as Secretary of State, you reached out to the Chamber on the same night, asking whether you could get to work as a Member of Parliament. It was a difficult time for you, but you kept your back straight, paved your way through the hordes of journalists and went straight into the field of defence personnel and foreign trade. I admire that. You could have gone camping, because you seem to be the only VVD to do so. It is not in your nature to look around quietly. Your car accident has forced a short time-out, but I hope and believe that you will continue to move forward at full speed outside the Chamber. Thank you very much and go well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u57	Betty de Boer. "Room member is the most beautiful dog job you can have. You're always at work or on the road." Those are your words, recently in an interview. In that most beautiful dog track, you have made the most effort to make that "on the road" as pleasant as possible, whether it was public transport, taxis, sea and inland waterway transport or the brown fleet. Without transportation, everything stopped, you thought. You developed into a strong spokesperson, with raucous observations and ideas. For example, companies in the rail sector had to prove themselves before being rewarded by the government. A quality that, I think, may have been a little underexposed, is your diplomacy. You initiated a commission visit to Berlin, where you spoke with the government and parliament to encourage better connections between Germany and the Dutch hinterland. Within the permanent Committee for Infrastructure and the Environment you are known for your short and targeted e-mails, which you always concluded with tribute and thanks. Today, these are tributes and thanks to you, and enjoy the fact that you can stand still again. A lot of good things and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u58	Louis Bontes. You are not present today, but perhaps you will follow this farewell live from home. I would therefore like to address you. Order and security, that's where your priority was in the Lower House. First for the PVV, later for the Group Bontes/Van Klaveren. On your initiative, there were debates on the possibility of arrest in criminal cases, and you denounced the problems with the 112 emergency call. That's where you showed yourself to a policeman at heart. It was in firm terms, with a clear Rotterdam tongue. It was not easy for you to be deceived. So you are probably the only MEP who does kickboxing. You're the only MP with a tattoo. Or no, maybe not the only MP. I'm not. Mrs Oosenbrug, for example, had it in the newspaper, so I can say it. Mr. Bontes, you have a tattoo of a koi carp on your upper arm. Koi carp swim against the current, you said about it in a newspaper. We have experienced your intransigence in the debates on the MH17. And of course we all remember that fierce debate about "who are you?'. For a second there, I thought you two were gonna fly into each other. At 50, you graduated cum laude. What are you looking for to surprise us again at your 61st? I can't wait to see what's coming your way. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u59	Tjeerd van Dekken. You have clearly enjoyed the membership of the Chamber, but unfortunately you could not spend time with your favourite football club in Groningen. Your youth hero was Simon Tahamata, the watery dribberler, and also the first Moluccan footballer at the Dutch Team. In your youth, you lived in the Groningen Marum, where politics was, as it were, on the streets. You lived in the Molucca district of the village during the infamous train hijackings. It was at that time that your political interest arose. Especially in the north, you were active and well-known. Of course because of your views, but also because of your hairdos, which Jan Vayne would be jealous of. In the Chamber, you've gradually lost your wild hair. You're not the only one! Oh, but not your fighting spirit. You remained very involved with the Groningen people, especially in the debates on gas extraction and earthquakes. Even if you weren't an energy spokesperson yourself, you were always there. You also acted as a real captain, as chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. You attach great importance to good relations, and through your natural flair you achieved a good atmosphere in the committee. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u60	Ed Groot. Diederik Samsom called you one of our smartest MPs. And he should know. Letterbox companies and public limited companies: with your years of background at Het Financieele Dagblad you have a great knowledge of a world that many of us only vaguely see through. When you spoke it didn't always come across, but I don't know a lot of people who write nicer and better. You wrote clearly and clearly. And you obviously enjoyed it. In the PvdA Group, you were the driving force behind everything that had to do with taxes. You handled all those complicated files. You did that mostly behind the scenes. It is reported that you have ever invited MP and fiscalist Roland van Vliet to join you in Amsterdam. Of course, you know each other by and large from the time you were Vice-President and he was chairman of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations. I've got a picture of that, on the steps, but I'm not gonna tell you. A cheerful image, I must say. You're both known for your humor and your word jokes. With the writing talent you have and your experience in the Chamber, I am sure we will hear a lot from you in the future. Thank you very much, Ed. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u61	Joram van Klaveren. You have spoken out in your ideas, not afraid to proclaim them. We've all noticed that. At the same time, you think that SGP youngsters find you on the boring side, because you have no gadgets, no watch, no iPod, no smartphone. It's that you as a MP can't really do without a cell phone, otherwise you'd get rid of it, so you once said. If you had included that in your election programme, perhaps the composition of the Chamber would have looked different now. It is the most widely heard complaint that I receive from citizens, namely that we are constantly working on our phones. I'd just say change your Twitter photo. There you are with a phone attached to your ear. You are the Member of Parliament who has submitted most of the legislative proposals for initiatives in recent years. A handsome achievement, with a fraction of only two men strong. I found the debate on your initiative proposal on extending freedom of expression one of the most beautiful debates I was allowed to chair. I would like to thank you very much for that. It's a shame you haven't been able to finish the defense. I wish you every success. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u62	Ahmed Marcouch. With your background in the Amsterdam youth work and the police you have always stayed someone off the street. Or, for those who argue it the other way around, you are the policeman who brought the practice to the reality of The Hague. You are a representative of the people in the most purest sense of the word. You're in the middle of society, knowing what's going on on the street like no other. If there were signs of e.g. ethnic profiling, homophobia, anti-Semitism or violence against mosques, you'd be on top of it. You were the first to get in the car to look at it with your own eyes, and then asked questions about it or filed motions. In the Chamber, you weren't the soft one. Young people who are no good had to go to school if necessary. And that while education wasn't punishment for you. You recently told NRC that you enjoyed your training as a furniture maker. At school, you made a ladder so strong that it's still in your brother's garden. I think that ladder is a nice symbol of the path you've gone yourself. Up. Come on. And although you're leaving The Hague now, there's always a next step. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u63	Jacques Monasch. "In good times it's nice to be a politician, in tough times it's important." You said that in 2012 in an interview. "There's gonna be rough years," you predicted. It was. For the cabinet, for society, but also for you personally. In debates, you were always able to make the translation to the citizen. Often that was with an original angle. An example of this is your fervent plea for cheaper cheese sandwiches at Schiphol. Despite the fact that you were in the coalition, you weren't afraid to crack critical notes or attack party mates. In any case, you were looking beyond your own party boundaries. Together with Farshad Bashir, Ineke van Gent and Kees Verhoeven, you submitted an initiative bill on public transport procurement in and around Amsterdam, The Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht. At the end of 2016 you decided to go your own way. Maybe that'll bring you to your own art dealership someday, but I actually think you'll always be committed to the public cause. There's no other way, given your involvement over the past few years. Take care of yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u64	Jeroen Recourt. With your coming to the Chamber, a shipment of legal knowledge came in. For the PvdA, that was a while ago. You were a thorough lawyer, who played an important role in many complex cases. You leave an impressive list of parliamentary achievements. There are ten different own-initiative papers and legislative proposals. These included minor traffic violations, fur animal farming, matrimonial property law and data law. Your legal background, also as judge on Aruba, was also useful in your role as chairman of the Kingdom Relations Commission. You were the driving force behind harmonious and constructive consultation, after years of conflict. Yet you wrote parliamentary history with something quite different. I was just talking about it. That started in the Water Line Dunes, which I thought you were on a job visit when you went down your knees for Sjoera Dikkers. I think we all recognize ourselves in the description that Sjoera Dikkers gave you in the Algemeen Dagblad: "Jeroen is very much involved. He has a very highly developed sense of justice, and he doesn't spare himself either. He's very reasonable in almost everything." That's how we've been with you. We will miss your rest, your knowledge and skills, but also your humour, in The Hague, but also in Oranjestad. Good luck to you. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u65	Roland van Vliet. You are without doubt the Member of Parliament who is the most articulate. And you were annoyed when others didn't; especially when colleagues were talking about the landlord's tax. It's a landlord's tax, all right? Another widely heard statement: The Netherlands is not a tax haven. When you split off from the PVV, you kept picking up big jobs. You were always prepared to chair committee meetings. That's what you did powerfully and with humor. In particular, you made a name for yourself as chairman of the Committee of Inquiry into Housing Corporations. When presenting the final report, you mentioned some of the secondary activities of these housing corporations: an elephant statue parade, the adoption of a monkey and a loan to a funeral home. About the latter, you said: "Corporate money for a funeral home... A special interpretation of the promotion of lifeability." You could be fierce in debates. But at the heart of the matter, you are and will remain... I can't make anything else out of it... a friendly stuffed bear... with those naughty funny little eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u66	The farewell of the Chamber makes you melancholy. I know. But I hope you enjoy the special time it was. And luckily, there's someone waiting for you with open arms. Good luck to you, along with your new love.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u67	Mei Li Vos. You find anonymous leaks about colleagues horrible. That's why you're in the paper every time with a name and a name. Every time you gave an interview, the PvdA group held her heart, because you were never too bad to say what you thought. Your defence was always, but it wasn't anonymous, was it? You must, in your own words, "always find something very much of it". And that's the opinion you'll never get under your skin. Sometimes it's about personal things. You said in an interview in the Volkskrant that you shouldn't think that people at the campsite in the tent next to you, and I quote, "are all going to be romantic." In the Chamber it was often about serious issues, such as market forces. And you've worked like no other forzzp'ers. In the debates you were direct and to the point. In addition to your regular chamber work, you were Vice-President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry Fyra. You added a lot. Not only did your scientific background come in handy, but also your character: laughter, with a nose for a good or wrong joke, curious, approachable and not dirty of a solid discussion. As we all know, at that time you were struck with a heavy, sad blow. I have a great deal of appreciation for the way you got through it, and I think this applies to many people with me. I'm sorry, too. You actually picked up the thread right away and went straight back to the Chamberwork. You're leaving now, but leave something substantial. You played a major role in the sounding board group that looked at the knowledge and information position of the Chamber. You interviewed many colleagues and made recommendations to better organise committee support. In doing so, you have given the new Chamber a firm position. It is a very important legacy, for which I am very grateful, partly on behalf of the Bureau. Lots of good luck and good luck. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u68	Ton Elias. Mr Elias, dear Ton, you're not here today. I see an empty chair, but I know you're looking. Yesterday, you were in surgery. I'm glad you're okay. I know you're watching this goodbye with Monique. Where do I start? I think we can say that you are a characteristic, outspoken Member of Parliament. That makes you loved and feared. Afraid of the clerks sitting next to you when you were in charge of the plenary. They knew that they were given an oral hearing on the Rules of Procedure for free and for nothing. Feared also of the people of the Registry in plenary, who sent you text messages from the plenary room, in capital letters, with the question: "This DEBAT CAN BE VERY SNELLER; CAN WE EVEN GET A NEW SHEEP, WHETHER WE HEAR THE TEMPO?" But taken by the bank, people like you. You are fierce and critical, but always fair. If you don't like something, you say it too, not through but straight to the face. And admit it, you often have a point. Outside you stand for your employees and have an eye for their commitment. So the entire committee of inquiry Fyra, including the staff, was allowed to enjoy the pâté you made for them. And if they were interested in a ride in your old-timer over the Binnenhof, no problem. You were loved by the French, too. As chairman of the contact group, you cited bilateral parliamentary relations. You were awarded the prestigious title Chevalier dans l'Ordre national de la Légion d'honneur. And of course you made sure that good French wines were ordered. No Chilean! And you were loved, and you're still loved with me personally. You were my opponent in the battle for the presidency, but you have always shown yourself to be an ally. As the first Vice-President, I could always call on you to replace me, both in the Chamber and in commemorations or receipts. You did that with all due respect and until the last moment. On the night before the election recess, you were still ahead. You are a hard worker, with knowledge of the procedures and heart for our Parliament. Thanks to you, MPs think three times before using abbreviations or English terms. I know your departure hurts you very much. There's no other way, given your involvement in our parliament. Whatever comes your way, I am sure you will handle it as you have handled everything here: full of surrender and the sharpness of the cut. Thank you very much for your commitment and loyalty! Feel better, and you'll be well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u69	Farshad Bashir. You wrote parliamentary history before you had even had one debate. You were 20 when you entered the Chamber on behalf of the SP, and thus the youngest representative of the people so far. Untiring and full of energy. You travelled up and down to Leeuwarden every day and were very prominent in all the debates. Living as a spokesperson brought in a very own vocabulary during the debates. Apart from the slogan "building, building, building" that you used too often, you referred to the mortgage interest deduction as "villa subsidy." You were one of the few MPs who managed to draw the sometimes unwavering Minister Blok out of his shell, inter alia, by calling for the landlord's tax to be converted into an investment obligation. You were consistent, punched, but you were also able to collect. You leave at a "fresh moment," you say. I told you at your farewell reception at the SP: I think your website is symbolic. For those who don't know him, there's nothing on it. Completely blank! So you can still go either way. But whatever road you take, with your age and nine years of Room experience, there seems to be a bright future for you. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u70	Fatma Koşer Kaya. After the departure of Gerard Schouw you returned to the Chamber in 2015. Again, because you became a Member of Parliament in 2004. In 2006, you continued your membership because of the nearly 35,000 preferred votes you received. In 2015, you picked up the Home Office portfolio effortlessly, as if you had never left. You were just as active. Together with Henk van Gerven and Rik Grashoff you released the initiative paper "Wei voor de koe." You came up with an initial legislative proposal for the repeal of the Sunday Act, and an initiative paper on a sustainable future for fish and fisherman. In 2012 you said goodbye to the Chamber. The President then referred to you as an accessible, open and warm person. These qualifications are all true, but you also have a temperament. You are steadfast and sharp, and you are not easily convinced of the opposite. You had a subscription to the interrupting microphone. Often you stood there with a slightly uneven look, your glasses steady on the head. Hold that, that active attitude and especially that particular combination of gentleness and spirit. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u71	Lea Bouwmeester. At the end of August, you said in the media that it was time for something else. You weren't until the late 20s when you entered the room. In the meantime, you are a wool-painted MP. You have a huge network in the care world. You have worked hard for a clear healthcare system and fair funding. In doing so, you always paid attention to the importance of the patients and clients. And each time you insisted on the quality of care and well-regulated supervision. Well, now what? What else are you gonna do? It is clear that you cannot work as a lobbyist. Together with Astrid Oosenbrug, you presented an initiative proposal to end shady lobbying practices. Maybe it's time, after ten years in the Chamber, just to be active in society doing beautiful things. I think you can do that for sure. As a born polder girl, you carry qualities that come in handy. You are focused on the compromise. You often come up with surprising proposals, at surprising moments. Unconventional, sure, but also original. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u72	Agnes Wolbert. In an interview in the Volkskrant you once said: "I am not one of those MPs that has a lot of text on the outside. But I know in the smallest debates what commitments I want to have. I went into politics to accomplish things, not because of my career." I find that strikingly worded. In the PvdA group, you had the space to specialise a little bit in the light. And that this kind of precision can lead to something, you proved in the debates you held in your policy areas. They dealt in particular with socio-economic health differences. A social injustice, you found and said. And whether it was about primary care or disaster management, you knew in detail what you were talking about. I've come to know you as a committed, loyal MP. In 2016 you replaced me during the Frankfurter Buchmesse. I know you had to swallow three times when you saw your daughter and grandchildren leaving for Australia. I hope there will be room for a visit now or at least for intensive skype sessions. I know you're gonna do that this week. Enjoy and enjoy! Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u73	Brigitte van der Burg. You entered the Chamber in 2006 as number four on the list. The VVD gave you a place behind Mark Rutte, Rita Verdonk and Henk Kamp. As an independent entrepreneur, you knew a lot about entrepreneurship. You were an expert in the field of unnecessary rules, or rather, in reducing them. And you like asphalt, I understand. You like tears in your blue Maserati. Yeah, all the secrets are coming up now! In the Chamber you started as a spokesperson for housing, major cities policy and emancipation. In 2008, together with Jan ten Hoopen and Arie Slob, you submitted an initiative proposal for combating cracking and emptying, which was adopted by the Upper House in 2010. It is a tangible success that directly affects our society. Perhaps less tangible but at least as important was the work you have done as chairman of the committee. You are known as a worthy and sober chairman, who manages to lead the debates neutrally and with authority. I know that the committee members appreciate that very much in you. Personally, I remember the plenary debate on the formation of groups, which we had not so long ago. You presided over that debate with a tight hand and were able to balance between leaving space and keeping it short. We're gonna miss that. Good luck and good luck to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u74	Henk van Gerven. Happiness is service to society. That's a quote from Charlie Chaplin that you quote regularly. I can therefore imagine that this farewell will make you melancholy. Since 2006, you have been committed to greater equality. You stood up for the lowest income groups, but also for the younger generation. And you fought against market forces in healthcare. As a red doctor in the Lower House, care had your attention anyway, but you were also active in the field of agriculture. It shows that you are willing to look beyond the boundaries of your own party if you want to achieve anything. When I think about it, there are really very few resources that you didn't use if you wanted to achieve anything. As a Member of Parliament, you were a little bit drab sometimes. May I say that as chairman? It is, isn't it? You often said you didn't avoid discussions. Every time I thought, "Well, it's done," but then you came to the microphone and said, "I see it differently." You often rubbed it against the edge or just went over it when it came to rules or procedures. Without friction no shine, also a beloved pronunciation of you. And granted, in some cases that was also functional. Perhaps the best example is the Committee of Inquiry Fyra, where it was yours and yours to get the bottom of it. "Luck is service to society." No matter how your path will run in the future, it will never be far from that public cause. Take care of yourself. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u75	Sharon Gesthuizen. "There's more happiness than you can see. There is also more effort than you can see." It is a quote from you from 2014, in an interview in the Reformatorisch Dagblad. You wanted to say that the outside of people, that what you see, is only part of reality. Over the past ten years, you have shown us a lot of that other part of reality, of what really drives you. You were a Member of Parliament with heart and soul. That had a lot to do with your wallet. It wasn't about abstract matters, it was about people. You stood up for the most vulnerable in our society, such as refugees and displaced asylum seekers. You never did that half-heartedly. You were always full of them. And although you can never say that the work is done here, the circle is complete. I met you when we were stuck together in the file on sexual abuse in the Roman Catholic church. You leave the Chamber as soon as you have ensured that there is an independent investigation into the role and responsibility of the government in preventing sexual abuse, not only in all kinds of public institutions, but also in youth care and sports. And maybe it's not always visible, it's mainly something people feel inside, but I'm sure your commitment has contributed to the happiness of a lot of people. I hope that's what you cherish. Take care of yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u76	Lutz Jacobi. I used to learn to look out for rail crossings: another train can always arrive. That's how it is with you. If you pass the Chamber, a trainload of visitors may come after you. More than a thousand visitors a year led you around the House of Representatives because you are convinced of the value of democracy because you love people. You found it difficult that these visitors all have to go through the security street at the entrance these days. You've really been annoyed by that. You've shown that to me a few times. You don't look down on anyone and you don't look up to anyone. That characterizes you. If you get a ribbon later, if you get a ribbon later, maybe, I don't know! This is because of the many social functions you have held, such as your administrative work for a school for special education and your long commitment to the ggz in Friesland. The staff of the Chamber loved you. You showed your involvement with messengers, restaurant staff and group staff. You gave a couple of Frisian socks to a deputy griffin who had become a father. And recently, you went to a football game with two cars full of chamber officials. In the meantime, you were right in front of topics such as water, shipping and agriculture, and of course the sheep-skuddes: not as a race debater, but as an approacher, always looking for cooperation with anyone who wanted to. Take care of yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u77	Helma Neppérus. Your life has always been dominated by top sport. First, that was rowing, from 2006 on, parliament membership. Rowing requires explosive force; in the Chamber we have just come to know you as a silent force. If there was a need for a replacement, we could always call on you to chair the plenary debate. As chairman of the Committee on Petitions and the Citizens' Initiatives, you had an important role to play in involving the outside world in the Chamber work. That wasn't always easy. I remember Arjen Lubach's request to claim the title of "Farao der Nederlanden." Look at that... But you did! The answer was "no." You were facing more hot fires. During the treatment of the 2015 estimate, you did not fight for yourself, but for your sister for the return of tonic to the Chamber. And if that didn't work out, then bitter lemon. "Tonicgate" became a hit. Twitter went wild. Even the conversation about fractional formation disappeared a bit to the background. I believe you have received crates of free tonic in the weeks after that. But what I find more important to report here, because that is what you did today, is how seriously and conscientiously you have fulfilled your role as a representative of the people, in the footsteps of your example, Haya van Someren-Downer. You were chairman of the VWS Committee and Vice-President of the Financial System Committee. Last Saturday, as chairman of the Committee for the Examination of the Letters of Faith, you were still present at the inspection of the minutes. For the sake of continuity, you have already started the transfer of your portfolio some time ago. This is a very warm heart for our Parliament. Thank you very much. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u78	Paul Ulenbelt. I was just talking about our work visit to Bulgaria and Romania in the summer of 2011. Karin Straus was there too. It was hot and we were looking for Bulgarians and Romanians who might come to the Netherlands if the Dutch labour market opened in 2012. You were a tireless actor. As good as the dessert wine tasted at the ambassador in Bucharest, you were standing next to the bus in the morning, still with a cigarette. You don't smoke anymore; everyone knows that, I think. Working conditions, both of Dutch and foreign workers, have always had your interest and attention. Whether it was mail delivery or truck drivers, you organized round tables and hearings to hear and solve their problems. You didn't do that from an ivory tower, but by seeking intensive and direct contact with the workplace. For your staff, too, you were an easy-to-reach MP. You were always willing to think with it and also understood if something could not be done. We're going to miss you, as an enthusiastic MP and as a pleasant colleague. Thank God you're not sitting still. I told you at your farewell reception, I heard you were going to assist Shell and the NAM in Groningen as image manager. In your application you gave a insight into the strategy that you have in mind. A quote: "Less earthquakes and less thunder with damage-handling means less misery for Groningers and therefore a less bad image." Not a pin to get in. I wish you every success. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u79	Rose Vermeij. You once in a while dwarfed all those billions in the poll room. The big boys from the banking world, you saw them all come by when you were a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Financial System. But you knew: although we are a small committee, we often know better than they do. That's what you exuded. It characterizes you as a person. You like to look into complicated files. You like to work at a high rate. This was also demonstrated by your spokespersonship on complex issues such as pensions and labour market policy. You don't want to be hijacked by crises. You know that substantive debates and thorough research are necessary for Parliament to stay alert and control the giants. The magazine Vrij Nederland characterized you as calm, a bit in the background. We come across you here so often and in so many functions that we can hardly imagine that there are people who do not know you. But indeed, your strength lies in your willingness to do a great deal of work, for example as a Presidium member or as a thorough chairman at committee meetings or in the plenary. Now that all that hard work is over, you'll realize how special that was. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u80	Angeline Eijsink. As the middle of eleven children, you've learned from home that you have to negotiate to get things done. You know that it can never happen overnight and sometimes it takes a long breath. That class came in handy in your wallet. I remember the discussion on the JSF, a very controversial subject, and you also had to deal with a divided PvdA constituency. But as sensitive as it was, you persisted. That's typical of you. Also outside the Chamber you searched for the connection or alliances. This was expressed, among other things, when you were appointed Vice-President of NATO Parliamentary Assembly in 2004. You took Parliament very seriously. Because you're a public representative seven days a week, 24 hours a day. That is your firm conviction. On weekends you were often on the phone or went into the country or into the water. In 2005, you did five days of internship on a submarine. You were the first woman to do that. In this way you wanted to experience for yourself how the Secretary of State's plan to admit more women to the elite units would turn out in practice. Afterwards you were smiling in the picture in the newspaper, but your statement was clear: mixed crew, no good idea, no way. In January of this year, you paid the last tribute to Veterans General Ted Meines at his funeral. Inspired by impressive veterans like him, you became the first Veterans Act petitioner. The Chamber unanimously adopted this law, which regulates the social recognition and medical care of veterans, in 2011. Something to be proud of. You also took the committee chairman very seriously. You were always prepared to the point. At reception and visits you found hospitality and etiquette very important. In that you were demanding, and I express myself very mildly. Sometimes you found it difficult to let things go. But you yourself put so much time and energy into everything you did that everyone quickly forgave you. Today we say goodbye to you. From Miss Armed Forces. It's the sweetest thing Han ten Broeke knows. That's what he said. It's not my words. And in the words of Raymond Knops: a PvdAer more agile than the JSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u81	I know your heart is with the veterans. I hope that you will be able to do a great deal for them in the future. Take care of yourself. Thank you so much for everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u82	Anouchka van Miltenburg. You're one of the longest-sitting MPs we've said goodbye to today. In your early years, you were mainly concerned with health care. You played an important role in the treatment of the Social Support Act. Later you were also active as media spokesperson and chairman of the Permanent Chambers Committee for Defence. As Vice-President of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, you were known as clear and tight. You did that vice-presidentship with a lot of attention. In 2011 it was said in Elsevier that there was no fraction as disciplined as the VVD, because Van Miltenburg managed to keep the frogs in the wheelbarrow. In 2012, you became President of the Chamber. It may not have brought you what you expected, and it must have been very difficult at times. But I hope you have warm memories of it most of all. As President, you are committed to strengthening the position of national parliaments within the European Union. You gave speeches in Warsaw, Vilnius and Rome, and attended the celebration of 25 years of democracy in Poland. You were closely involved in the preparations for the EU Presidency, which went very well. But the highlight of your presidency was perhaps the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the States-General, with the unified meeting in the Knight's Room and the open day that attracted more than 10,000 people. After your resignation, you began to work on the portfolio of emancipation with good courage. You were just a member of parliament again. You showed that you knew the possibilities of the Chamber of Commerce when you organised a wide-ranging hearing on dividing lines in our society. That was a very special hearing. She was followed up close by all kinds of groups. Now you leave the room behind. I would like to thank you for your unwavering energy, for your commitment and your commitment, in the fourteen years that the House of Representatives was your second home. Thank you very much for that. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u83	And then we get to the last MP to leave: Harry van Bommel, our nestor. But anyone who thinks you belong to the wallpaper of the Chamber is mistaken. Yesterday you were trending topic on Twitter!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u84	I don't know how you did that. Ten minutes, yeah. In the eighteen years you have been a Member of Parliament, you have always been colourful and expressive. I'd like to walk past a few milestones. Starting in 2004. You said later in an interview, you were in a serious slump. That doesn't sound like you, but it was. I quote: "I thought: my God, it is always opposition! It's not gonna get any fuck. Every once in a while, a motion is passed. But yes, that doesn't change the world." That dip ended in December of that year. At the party council, you gave a speech on the European Constitution. You noticed that Europe was a far-from-my-bed show for most SPs and you suggested interfering in the referendum. The secretary of the party didn't believe in it, but you got what you wanted. You were given a budget, a staff, and you could campaign. And as we all know, the Netherlands said no. That has made a great impression on you. In the same interview, you said: "The idea that you can still stop an important European treaty without ruling gives you a powerful feeling." It has made you more optimistic about the opportunities that the people's representatives have. Another important moment was in 2009 when, on your initiative, an investigation started into the Dutch political support for the war in Iraq. The investigation made it clear that there was no adequate international mandate. According to you, it has caused a watershed in our political thinking about the support for military missions. Later on, the coalition agreement established that there should be adequate legitimacy before the Netherlands participates in a mission. But you were more than a foreign spokesperson. I remember a debate a few years ago. I was Vice President at the time. That debate was about manure and agriculture. I suddenly saw you appear as a spokesperson behind the chair. I said to you then: Mr Van Bommel, I cannot associate you with manure, agriculture and that sort of thing; for me, you are just a foreign spokesperson. Then you said, well, Mr. Chairman, if there's shit going on, they're gonna take it off the SP Harry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u85	And that's not so crazy. Politics is in your DNA. I think you're going to miss the nightly debates. We will miss your knowledge and experience, but also the outbursts. It was never boring with you. We can quite rightly say that the Chamber with Harry van Bommel is losing an icon. We're gonna miss you. Take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u86	Colleagues, they were: all the Members who are in these blue seats today for the last time. Whoever I would like to mention and thank, and I am now looking at the public gallery, your relatives and friends. I also see children sitting in the public gallery. They have often missed you, because MPs are you seven days a week and 24 hours a day. It's not a nine to five function. It is my firm belief that in this political arena you can only stand up if there are people behind the scenes who support you in it. I would like to thank you, the people in the public gallery, very much for having missed Members of Parliament in recent years, perhaps on birthdays, during illness or when they had to cancel at the last minute. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u87	For some of you there is a special token of gratitude. I already missed out when I addressed Mrs Jacobi. Maybe not entirely unexpected, but therefore no less special. I can inform the Chamber that His Majesty has pleased the King to appoint some outgoing members as Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau. In alphabetical order: Betty de Boer (VVD), Lea Bouwmeester (PvdA), Brigitte van der Burg (VVD), Yasemin Cegerek (PvdA), Angelien Eijsink (PvdA), Lutz Jacobi (PvdA), Anouchka van Miltenburg (VVD), Daniel van der Ree (VVD), Karin Straus (VVD), Grace Tanamal (PvdA), Roos Vermeij (PvdA) and Agnes Wolbert (PvdA). May I ask these Members to come forward so that I can pin on them the decorations that are part of this appointment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u88	I would ask Members to allow me to leave my seat for some time without suspending. The present press is given the opportunity to take photos after pinning the decorations. (The President spelled out the decorations associated with the award.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u89	From this place on behalf of all of us, I would like to congratulate you most warmly on your royal award. I give the floor to Harry van Bommel, with 18 years of the longest-standing MP leaving today. I really don't know what he's gonna say. We're all curious. I give the floor to Harry van Bommel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. As a nestor in the Lower House, it is a special honour to address you all from the large group of outgoing MPs; 71 is huge. I cannot do that on behalf of the movers, because I have not been able to discuss with them beforehand the text I am about to pronounce. Some colleagues had already cleared their rooms on the first day of the recess and were no longer visible in fields or roads. My 23-year-old residence in this building, of which nearly 19 years as a Member of Parliament, have made me need a little longer for that. I solemnly promise you that by the end of this day at the latest, I will empty my room. I would like to thank the President herself for the kind words she has addressed to all outgoing Members of Parliament. I would also like to thank her for her excellent work as President, which allowed her to begin in the interim during this term of office. Mr President, you have done very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u91	Congratulations are also due to those MPs who have received a royal award today. That's not nothing. Not everyone attaches great importance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u92	But it cannot be denied that such an award is special, especially in obituaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The last four years have been special. The government has often been forced out of need to seek agreements with opposition parties. On the one hand, that clouded the image and distinction between opposition and coalition, but on the other hand, there is nothing wrong with looking for majorities. In the end, we all have the same tasks: to control the government and to legislate. Each party and every MP do so in their own way. Contact with ordinary people and their organisations outside the Chamber Building is essential for this. It was also not such a crazy proposal to force MPs to spend a quarter of their time on the streets, among the people. It is a pity, however, that many have failed to do so. A concern concerns the sustainability of parliamentary membership. That when I was 50 years old, I became the longest-sitting Member of Parliament, I had to think about it. The average term of office of Members of Parliament is now less than six years. Especially for Members of Parliament who have little or no political experience, that is very short. Once upon a time, parliamentary membership was a crowning achievement of a good social career. Now it sometimes seems like a stepping stone to a nice job. Personally, I would have no objection to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u94	And I wish all colleagues who wave with me today exactly the same. Another concern is the tone of the debate. Sometimes you wonder if the language of the street has crept into parliament or if the words we are doing are repeated on the street. For example, the advice to leave the Netherlands if you adhere to certain ideas has become commonplace in recent years. Those who started it are not described, but that it sounds good, is absolutely certain. It is rarely a solution to problems. The rich diversity makes the Netherlands strong. Politically, we also see this diversity translated into the results of the last elections. Our democracy can handle having politicians in parliament who question the foundations of that democracy. With that, I would like to welcome all newcomers arriving tomorrow. The introduction of social media, such as Twitter and Facebook, has accelerated public and political debate. There too, there has been a brutality. What was once solemnly referred to as "the digital highway" sometimes resembles an open sewer. Everyone, including me, can slip. That's how it's done in a sewer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u95	I would like to apologize to those colleagues who have been painfully affected by social media. I expect a few back, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u96	Over the past period, a record of splits of members of their political groups has been shown. Almost all parties will have their turn. A good solution to this problem appears to be difficult to find. Maybe it's not a real problem either. It is not rare that splits also give rise to entertainment, both inside and outside the Chamber. If it can increase Parliament's entertainment value, then at least one positive goal is served. However, do not regard this as a call. Possibly in the coming parliamentary term, Parliament will have to find housing elsewhere for a longer period of time because of the renovation, the renovation of this house. That is not an enviable matter. I wish you all a great deal of strength in this process, which will undoubtedly lead to a great deal of discomfort. It seems to be a Hague custom to close the access roads and bridges to Parliament for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u97	Soon it will be Parliament's turn. Ignorant visitors may take this as a policy of discouragement for visits to the House of Representatives. Therefore, make sure that the removal messages leave the door on time, otherwise visitors, protesters and school classes will be waiting for them to get access for a long time on Square 2 or Lange Pots 4. We could not do this work without the support we get in our own groups and without the support we get from all the services of the House of Representatives. Every day of course we see the staff of the restaurant, the security, the registry and the messengers, but behind the scenes there are many more people who make this work possible for us. I am sure I speak on behalf of all of us when I say that there is great appreciation and thanks for that. The dedication and kindness with which they serve us, sometimes very difficult customers, is exemplary. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u98	Finally, for all of us, today is a special day. This is the last time we've met in this assembly. Defenders know there's a life after politics. Happy and newcomers know that there is a life after politics. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was a pleasure to be in your midst. Take care of yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-22-tweedekamer-5.u99	Thank you for these lovely words. We now miss all your contributions and your presence in the Chamber. Take care of yourself. You can all see that I am also a bit ready at the end of this sitting. That's where we're now; we're almost done. I just want to tell you that you will not go home empty-handed, but that you will receive a photo taken recently. This will permanently remind you of your stay in the Lower House. The large version of the photo will be hung in the room. Finally, I would like to invite you and your family and friends for a drink in the State Passage. This brings us to the end of this sitting.
