ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u1	I raise the issue of the SZW 2018 Collecting Act. I welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Koolmees, among us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan of the VVD as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. She has five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr President. For the Minister, I think the headline was already finished this afternoon, but I too look forward to a good cooperation in the coming years. Every year, the Social Affairs and Employment Collection Act sees small changes in different laws. These adjustments are neither extensive, complex nor politically controversial. The same applies to the law now before us. Most of the questions raised by my group in the round that we always do in writing have been answered with satisfaction. Only a part of this is not the case and my group is left with a feeling of displeasure. I'm talking about the hostage care in relation to the minimum wage and minimum holiday allowance. My group, together with other political groups, has already expressed its concern about the position of host parents who are affected by this law. The host care system seemed unintentionally to be the victim of the new legislation around the minimum wage. At that time, the Minister made a commitment to the Chamber to make an exception for this kind of childcare. This commitment seems to have been partially fulfilled. The Minister has the group of host parents who receive children in their own homes and do so on the basis of a contract of engagement, indeed excluded from the law. That is good, because without this exception, every parent would have to pay the minimum wage to the host parent. That would, of course, be extremely expensive. However, there is a group of host parents who care for children from different parents at one of the demand parents at home. It may be a little technical, but it's really happening. This group does not now appear to be covered by that exception. In answering our questions, the Minister states that this group of host parents often works through the Home Services Scheme. This would in fact be a contract of employment and would therefore not be affected by the legislative amendment which will enter into force on 1 January. That is where the shoe seems to be wringing, because it is as if the theory and practice are not quite aligned. We are getting signals from this particular group of host parents, i.e. from the host parents who receive children from different parents in the home of one of the demand parents, that they will indeed be covered by the new scheme and therefore still have to ask for the minimum wage per parent. The consequence is that they are priced themselves out of the market. The trade association also indicates that this group of parents works on the basis of a contract of employment and not, as the Minister states, through the Home Services Scheme. We would like to see this point clarified, also because last year the Chamber was promised that there would be an exception for this sector. I would therefore like to hear on the basis of what information the Minister states that most host parents often work through the Home Services Scheme. As I said, we are getting other signals. Mr. Chairman. The VVD wants quality, affordable childcare and choice for parents. Guest-parent care for different children, including in the home of one of the demand parents, should remain possible in our view. The change actually removes the freedom of choice for this kind of childcare, because it becomes too expensive. We do not want this change to mean that parents should seek alternative care for their children and that the host parents concerned should lose their jobs. After all, the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Benefits Act has not been tightened because there are abuses in the remuneration of host parents. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister whether and, if so, what possibilities he sees for excluding this group or offering an alternative that does justice to this particular situation. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u4	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. I would like to give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP. You too have five minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I congratulate the Minister on his first bill. In recent years, I have negotiated a lot of things with this minister. If he's gonna stay as flexible as he was then he's gonna have to be okay. "That's not gonna happen," says the Minister. Don't you, reporter, want to include that in the report? 'Cause he didn't officially say that. My point concerns the so-called hybrid system of sickness and disability benefits. Employers can insure themselves for illness and disability through the UWV. They can do it themselves, take their own chances. If they do, they can run it themselves or turn on a private service provider. We believe that this is a good model, because it drives competition and ensures that it takes place more efficiently and effectively. But then it has to be equal, and there's a problem. The Tax Administration wants to distinguish between UWV and private service providers, as private service providers need to apply a more comprehensive calculation of premiums and payments. This not only causes a lot of red tape and implementation questions, but also results in employees' contributions to the UWV being offset less far-reachingly than private service providers. Now I have considered tabling an amendment. But I know these kinds of processes in collective laws. Directors don't have to wait for that. I've got it under control. I even have it on me. I can file it à la minute. But first, I'd like to hear the Minister's views on that situation. It would actually be the best thing, especially at the beginning of a new cabinet period, if we looked at the system as a whole again to see where opportunities for improvement lie. So I would like to receive a response from the Minister on this point. Finally, I would like to draw attention to problems which may arise from 1 January in agriculture and horticulture as a result of a ban on deductions from the minimum wage. That prohibition is intended to protect workers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Surely that cannot be the intention of the law, which is intended to support the employee? In the end, the employee is worse off. That is why the previous cabinet has already regulated exceptions to that statutory ban for health insurance and housing. In ordinary people's language, it actually means that it can go through gross wages instead of paying taxes on them, which are deducted from the employee. In my view, this does not require any legislative amendment and can be dealt with by an exemption, simply by a decision of this Minister. That was already done by Asscher, but that expires on 1 January 2018. So I would not ask the Minister to change the law. I would not ask him to make a decision on the spot now, because I do not think he will. No, you see, I see him shaking no. However, I would like to ask him to look at this in consultation with the sector over the next few weeks, to see if there is a good solution and to inform us about it in good time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Dijkgraaf. I now give the floor to the third speaker from the Chamber, Mr Van Kent of the Socialist Party. Five minutes' speaking time for him, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is quite a risk to have your first debate on a collective law as a minister, because of course it amends all possible social security laws and so the debate can go on everywhere. But luckily for the minister, I'll keep it clear. Knowing the minister, he will have read the book The wealth of the nations of Adam Smith. I see him nodding. Smith argued in 1776, that the piecework should be abolished, because piecework would encourage workers to work overtime and thereby risk their health. Smith's concern was justified. Piecework is a common system, because it leads to working at a high rate and therefore to a wear and tear. The youngest, the strongest and the fastest have the most chance. That's how the piecework plays people apart. But hundreds of years later, that piecework is still on the table. Last year it became clear that Bastion Hotels paid his staff per cleaned room instead of per hour. The inspection carried out an investigation and could not determine whether or not the minimum wage was met. In the end, a fine was imposed, but it was not possible to establish the infringement because the correct information was not provided. We also know other abuses, for example in the post office and in horticulture. In this collective law, the piecework is adjusted a bit, after the revision of the minimum wage and minimum holiday allowance legislation has already gone well. However, exceptions may still be made, allowing people to still be paid on the basis of the medieval system. As a result, people who often earn the lowest income are uncertain whether they can earn sufficient wages within the time allowed. They will then remain dependent on proper monitoring and enforcement and proper time recording. Pressure from an employer can still ensure that one does not write the hours that one has worked, but the hours that the employer thinks should be able to carry out the work within it. It shouldn't matter what work you do; you should always be able to count on a decent income. That is why the SP has tabled an amendment to finally say goodbye to the piecework after hundreds of years and thereby ensure that employees are always paid by the hour. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you very much, Mr Van Kent. I now give the floor to the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mr Özdil van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As my fellow Members have just pointed out, the collectible law is mainly about technical amendments. In the written round, my group asked questions about the Action Plan Perspective for Fifty-plussers. This is intended to make it easier for older unemployed people to get a job. Specifically, it concerns the temporary reduction of age for the compensation scheme for older unemployed people in 2018 and in 2019. My question to the Minister is what he is going to do when the reduction in age is working very well and employers are going to make great use of it. Will the reduced age continue after 2019? And if so, where does the cover come from? In addition, Mr President, my group has asked whether non-contributory beneficiaries who wish to submit their own assessment request for the target group register should be allowed to do so. We're happy to read that that's allowed. The chances of getting a job for those people are greatly increased. However, I have a question about this: how does it work in practice? Do the people who are involved get the necessary support from the municipality? For example, is the scheme sufficiently known to both the non-contributorys themselves and the municipalities? Or is additional action needed to bring this to the attention of the public? I also agree with the VVD's questions about the host parents. Finally, I would like to make one final point, which I made earlier in this Chamber. When reading the collectible law, I noticed that there is always talk of "customers," but I really think this is about people. Does the Minister agree with me that people who receive benefits are not customers who take a product, but just citizens who exercise their social rights? The previous Secretary of State for Social Affairs indicated that they agreed with me that we needed to think again about what human image is based on the terms used by the government towards the citizens. How does this minister intend to deal with this in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Can he go straight to his term? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. That sounds wonderful!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That does sound wonderful. I would like to thank the Members of this Chamber for their kind words and also for the input to this collectible law. I can tell you that I would have liked to start with a sexier law than the collectible law. On 25 laws, I believe, an amendment is now being applied. This is the very first law I can treat as a minister. So that is an honor, but it is a very broad law with a lot of issues in it. I can also tell by the contribution of the Chamber. The collecting law is actually a law that gives omissions and clarifications on existing legislation. This year, even five letters of amendment were added at a later stage. Yeah, that's the way it goes from time to time. Later you'll find out about mistakes that need fixing. That's always going on a fast train ride, at a late hour. We apologise for that, but it is also important that this law can enter into force on 1 January 2018, precisely in order to remedy these omissions. I'm just going to see the spokesmen and the questions that have been asked. I can do that relatively quickly, I hope. I shall begin with Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan's question on the host parent's file. It is true that my predecessor said in the previous law on the statutory minimum wage that host parents should be excluded. However, that was specifically about host parents working from their own home. The idea was that host parents who work in their own homes could also carry out household tasks. This gives them a special position. So that was not explicitly about host parents who work in someone else's house, because there can be another relationship of authority, for example, and it can also be that they work under the Home Services Scheme. I must say that I see Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan standing up threateningly and I do not want that to happen in my first debate. Having said that, I do understand the point made by Mrs Nijkeren-de-Haan. I just don't have a one-two-three solution to that. So I should like to say to Mrs Nijkerken that I will continue to talk to the host family in the near future in order to determine whether and to what extent problems arise in practice and to what extent with the industry I will see how we can solve problems in existing regulations. My proposal would be that I should try to get back to that in the budgetary procedure, so that it is also limited in time. I hope that Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan will vote in favour of this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u12	We'll see. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u13	I welcome that commitment; that is obvious. I think it is a very important point. We are going to hit a group of host parents, parents and children, who are unintentionally sucked away while there are no abuses at all in the area of underpayment, because in the end a host parent always captures at least two children. If you do twice the hourly rate for child care, you're above minimum wage. I think that is perhaps part of the solution. I'm happy if you want to look with the industry for a way to fix this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u14	I'm not gonna do that, but the Minister is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u15	I would like to make one more point. You are right to say that this law must pass quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u16	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u17	Excuse me. The Minister says this law must pass quickly, because January 1st is coming. I hope that you will take that with you in your search, and I hope that you will perhaps be able to pull something out of your hat in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u18	I understand the request. It's very difficult for me. I'm not gonna give any guarantees about it, because this law has a history. A distinction has been made for host parents who work from their own homes. The reason is that they are excluded from the minimum wage law. That's a very specific defined group. At the same time, I really do see Mrs Nijkerken's point. So I'm gonna go in consultation. I'm gonna go check it out, but I want to be clear. I can't break iron with my hands. Let's go find it. I can go back to the budgetary procedure and hopefully we will be a step further. But there are no guarantees. I'd like to have that highlighted. I know Mr Dijkgraaf very well as a fellow negotiator in many agreements. I am even going to be very flexible for Mr Dijkgraaf today. He made two points. The first concerns the distinction for private performers in the Disease Act, in the hybrid system of UWV, own risk carriers and private performers. The SGP, Mr Dijkgraaf, indicates that it is not desirable, from the point of view of employee equivalence, for private service providers to meet different requirements than, for example, the UWV. I would like to emphasise two things and then make a move towards Mr Dijkgraaf. Firstly, the workers do not notice any of this. Either your employer is your own risk carrier or you go through the UWV. The performance that lies between them, of course, works for the employer, for the own risk carrier. In addition, private service providers are subject to the same requirements as employers who hire them and all other employers who bear the disease risk themselves. Having said that, I do understand the concern expressed here by Mr Dijkgraaf, because of the difference between private service providers and the UWV. Mr Dijkgraaf has threatened an amendment. I don't think this is necessary. I think we need to work together to see if we can bring the system more broadly into line. I would like to make the following offer to Mr Dijkgraaf, namely that I have the time to work with the Tax Administration and the UWV to see how we can achieve a better level playing field. I look forward to Mr Dijkgraaf's response. I see him nodding. Then there is probably no need for an amendment either. This is a little entrapment, Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u19	Yes, it is. And Mr Dijkgraaf also has a second term, but you managed to trick him into interrupting. Mr. Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u20	I thought: I leave the Minister in suspense until the second term and then I threaten the amendment again, but yes, that is all a bit difficult now. I think this is a good route. Frankly, the amendment is also quite difficult. Then, in the second term, I will table a motion which will allow the Minister to seek a solution in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u21	The Minister continues his response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u22	Mr Dijkgraaf's second question concerned the legal minimum wage, particularly in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, and the prohibition of deductions from the statutory minimum wage. This prohibition entered into force on 1 January 2017. I think that Mr Dijkgraaf is referring to the change in the minimum wage law in the field of extra work which will enter into force on 1 January next. So that's like another law. It provides for additional work to be paid at least at the level of the statutory minimum wage. The note on the report on the Collecting Law also asked questions about this. The scheme which covers additional work under the statutory minimum wage means that the additional work allowance at the level of the statutory minimum wage should no longer be exchanged for unpaid expenses. These unpaid expenses for migrant workers are provided for, for example, travel expenses to the country of origin and housing costs in the Netherlands. This exchange means that the employee himself does not have full access to the wml, which we have, of course, defined as the minimum level of pay, and this is likely to come underneath. Untaxed charges related to the employment can only be provided on top of the wml and not as part of the wml. The so-called cafeteria scheme, which allows the collective agreement to exchange tax wages for such unpaid expenses, is therefore not possible for wages falling within the statutory minimum wage, especially from the protection of those workers. It can indeed cover housing costs and care costs up to a maximum of 25%. This is also explicitly regulated by the law. It can exceptionally be done in a collective agreement. However, at present the LTO does not yet have a collective agreement which includes such certification standards and therefore cannot currently include them in the WMM. Mr Dijkgraaf asked me to talk to the sector to see if this could be resolved and taken a step further. I can promise that I will consult with the sector on how to find a solution within existing legislation, for example by including accommodation agreements in a collective agreement. They could be in line with the quality mark that the temporary agency industry has included in the collective agreement, the Stichting Noordering Flexwonen. But the promise is that I will get in touch with the industry and talk with it, as Mr Dijkgraaf has asked me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you for that. Then all I have to ask is the timing of the story. Honestly, I'm not quite sure myself. Perhaps the Minister would better assess that. If the scheme is continued and a decision has to be taken, then my proposal would be that, if it is not too late, this should be done before the budgetary treatment of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u24	I'm also looking at my support... I'll come back to it in my second term because I can't give it one-two-three answers right now. It's being sorted out now. Then I come to Mr Van Kent's contribution. It's always refreshing when someone from the SP starts quoting Adam Smith.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u25	That was a one-time thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u26	That was a one-time thing, he tells me now. I thought it was refreshing. Since Adam Smith's time, of course, some changes have been made to labour law. Oh, thank God, I'm gonna add it. So also the reference is not entirely right anymore and up-to-date. In the revision of the minimum wage law, the payout of at least the statutory minimum wage is guaranteed at the bottom. For piecework, this means that employees must be paid at least the statutory minimum wage per hour worked. There has also been an amendment by Members Van 't Wout and Pieter Heerma, which stipulates that a piecework standard can be applied at the request of one of the members of the Foundation of Labour. This amendment was not introduced through the Collection Act 2018, so not through the law we are discussing today, but through the revision of the Minimum and Minimum Holiday Fees Act. So it's kind of a weird duck in the bite today, but I still want to handle it. The Van 't Wout/Herma amendment has made it possible for specific work to be designated by the Minister as work to which the piecework standard can be applied. That's also surrounded by guarantees. I call it a review of the social partners and a review committee of the employers' organisation. I think there is also flexibility, in line with the Van 't Wout/Heerma amendment, to allow this in practice, with guarantees from the social partners or a review committee. I do not know whether I should provide for an opinion in this period, but it is clear from my argument that I should discourage this amendment, because I think that this system is now surrounded in practice by sufficient guarantees and is also in line with a previously adopted amendment in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u27	This leads to a response from Mr Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u28	Actually, more of a question. Is it then the case that this Minister is defending the use of piecework and also wants to maintain it in the form that exists now after the adoption of that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u29	I believe that the form that exists today, with either a review committee or an agreement by the social partners, including the guarantee that someone must earn at least the minimum legal minimum wage, which ensures that people cannot be underpaid, is indeed a sensible line. In addition, Article 18b of the WML makes it possible for the inspection to be checked by means of records of whether the work carried out has been rewarded in accordance with the standard laid down. In other words, this law also gives an extra handle to check. Given that interplay of things, I find it highly defensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u30	Apparently, we have a difference of opinion about the use of piecework. I have just described in my contribution what this can lead to: that it really drives employees apart, that the fastest, the youngest, the fittest gets a higher reward than someone who is less fast, young and fit. That seems unfair to me if they are colleagues in the same workplace. I would like to ask the Minister the following question. When it comes to allowing piecework to be used under all these conditions, should the minimum wage be the norm or should the collective wage be the norm?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u31	Now I'm gonna improvise a little bit. That may always be dangerous in a first week of my ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u32	I'd just do it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u33	Yeah, I'll just do it. I think it is different by situation and sector. It depends on a number of things. Is there a collective agreement? Are there any guarantees? I'm gonna go get confirmation from my officials. I think it's different from one situation to another. If the social partners have to agree on it or have to review it as a review committee, there is often also a collective agreement. At least that is what we are suggesting. So I think it's different by sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u34	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u35	The law only provides for the right to the minimum wage. I think very few employees work for the minimum wage. Fortunately, by far the majority of employees work in accordance with a collective wage. I hear the Minister saying here: I do not know exactly what the situation is, but if the social partners have agreed a collective agreement, it should also be the norm when it comes to guaranteeing piecework. Is the Minister prepared to look further at this and possibly come up with additional proposals, so that the standard is not the minimum wage but the collective wage for piecework? Of course, the social partners are responsible for maintaining this, too, in order to ensure that it is respected. But I think it would help to give the trade unions and workers a strong position too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u36	I don't think you can put that generically, because, of course, we have the legal minimum wage as a minimum. This applies to everyone in the Netherlands. In addition, we also have collective agreements which apply to certain sectors. I am going to consult with the officials in the suspension in a moment and then I will come back to it in the second term. Then I came to Mr Özdil's question on the Action Plan Perspective for 50+. That action plan shall be evaluated. The evaluation framework, the information on how it is evaluated, was sent to the Chamber on 15 May 2017. The temporary adjustment of the compensation scheme for the elderly unemployed is also part of this. This is part of the evaluation framework. I expect a monitoring report by the end of 2018, which will be sent to the Chamber. The evaluation study will be finalised by the end of 2019. That's in line with what was agreed earlier. At that time, so if the evaluation report is there, I will decide whether the reduced age will continue. I cannot anticipate that at this stage, because I want to evaluate the scheme before I make such decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u37	I would like to thank the Minister for his clear answers and kindly ask him to help me out a little bit and briefly explain which frameworks they are. The Minister says: I wait until the end of 2019 and then I decide. I get that. At the same time, however, my question was clear: what happens if much use is made of the scheme? Surely the Minister will be able to lift a little bit of the veil on this matter by now? What's he gonna do? That simply makes perfect sense when it comes to vision and policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u38	I can't anticipate that. We have this arrangement. We've made a proper deal with each other that we're going to evaluate them properly. There is even a whole framework for this, also in order to make clear agreements with each other in advance and not to shift the goalposts during the race. I think that order is wise, and I want to keep it. It does not seem sensible to me to anticipate all sorts of things, because then I will have another discussion with you later that I will have to take things back. I don't think that's a good idea anyway. Mr Özdil's second question concerned the non-contributory beneficiaries in the target group register. Mr Özdil has made a compliment. I'd like to thank him for that anyway. He also asked a question on this point. Staccato: the municipalities know that people from the target group of the Participation Act can request an assessment for the job appointment from UWV themselves. The same applies to the so-called nuggets, the non-contributorys. One municipality is committed to mediation of the nuggets "Sorry," the non-profit-holders "Sorry," and the other is less committed to this. That is, of course, also a freedom of the municipalities. That's local policy freedom. They can make their own choices. An important group of non-contributorys are pupils of secondary special education. For them the project will soon start Enabled, to encourage this group to come into the picture early and also to work. The Ministry of Social Affairs supports this initiative. Education and employers' organisations also participate in this project. I believe that I have also answered Mr Özdil's question on this point. Finally, Mr Özdil had a more philosophical question. Are we talking about "customers" or "people" or "citizens"? I understand the question. I even feel some sympathy for it. I think that "customers" are established over time as a term used by the operators of the schemes, for example when it comes to customer satisfaction or customer focus. How do you make sure people get the best help? So yes, I have to say that I have no firm opinion on this yet. I'm gonna think about that at the Christmas tree. Maybe I'll come back to that in the new year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u39	Thanks to the Minister. A brief reply from Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u40	I'm willing to help the Minister very much in that reflection process. I look forward to discussing this further in the forthcoming debates. However, a short question about this freedom of policy of the municipalities. Am I to understand that the Minister says he can't do anything about it himself to make it more equal? It seems logical to me that nuggets or non-contributorys should be able to seize their chances in the same way everywhere. If one municipality provides more information than the other or has more contact points than the other, then I do not think that it would be good for the equality of law in our country. Does the Minister say that he can't do anything about it, or does he say that I want to leave it to the freedom of the congregations?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u41	I'm saying that last thing. We have made an explicit choice in this house, both in the decentralisations as well as in the Work and Assistance Act, to make this a local responsibility, a policy responsibility for municipalities. That's what this is all about. That was a deliberate policy choice and I do not want to enter into it, especially on a Tuesday night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u42	Thank you. Let me look at the Members to see if there is a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first speaker in the second term to give the floor to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan of the VVD. You have a third of the speaking time of your first term and that includes the possibility of tabling a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr President, I can be very brief. Thank you again for the Minister's outstretched hand to enter into consultation. As has already been said, this is really an important point for us. Fortunately, the budget debate has been pushed a little backwards towards the end of December, so that will give you sufficient time to enter into consultation and to let us know the outcome of the discussion, which I hope will be positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf, SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No amendment, but the Minister said it: a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, for the implementation of the hybrid sickness and disability scheme, it is important that the position of the UWV and its own risk carriers, whether or not linked to a private operator, is as balanced as possible;]] [[noting that the Tax Administration intends to require private operators to include income items other than benefits in the calculation of social insurance contributions and contributions to the Health Insurance Act as from 1 January, which results in a difference between the UWV and the own risk carriers which have entrusted the performance of their responsibility to private operators;]] [[Calls on the Government, in consultation with the Tax Administration, to examine how a more equivalent implementation of the hybrid system can be developed and, to that end, to suspend the envisaged policy until 1 January 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Dijkgraaf and Mr Nijkerken-de Haan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34766-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u46	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment for the second term. I'm gonna ask for backup, see if we can get the cathedral down a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u47	A little bit. I'm not that big, Mr. President. I'll answer it right away. I would like to thank Members for the second-term questions. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan asked me to consult. Yeah, I'm gonna do that. We have the budget on 19 or 20 December. I will see to it that you receive a note about the progress of these talks before then. I'll give you my word on that. I come to Mr Dijkgraaf. I had another point open from the first term about the LTO. We can talk to the LTO about the budget. But if you want to solve this, this has to be settled by collective agreement. I do not think it is covered by the collective agreement by 20 December. I want to raise clear expectations towards Mr Dijkgraaf. Yeah, I'm gonna talk to them. After that, of course, it has to be resolved in collective agreements. I can't guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u48	That's the kind of thing I get. It also depends a little on what comes out of the conversation, I think. I am concerned that we should get a note from the Minister on the state of play before the budget is discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u49	That's what I'm telling you. I come to Mr Dijkgraaf's motion on the hybrid system. It seems to me to be a clear motion. Thank you for the space given by Mr Dijkgraaf to resolve this in consultation with the Tax Administration and UWV. I have one more comment to make. The final sentence of the motion is to suspend the policy until 1 January 2019. For that, I really need to consult with the Secretary of State for Finance, because the execution goes through the Tax Administration. I just need to talk. That hasn't happened yet, it's still to be done. This would mean that the existing tolerance policy would have to be extended for a year. I am going to commit myself to this, but I do need this comment. It's not my decision, it's the decision of the Secretary of State for Finance, who I'm going to consult with. With this interpretation, I would like to leave the ruling on the motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thanks for that. As far as I'm concerned, that's no problem at all. We MPs are pretty smart. We do not say "call on the Minister of Social Affairs to do anything." No, it's a request to the government. As far as I'm aware, the Secretary of State is part of it. So for him, the motion is as good as for the minister. We will not take care of the Minister, but we are going to hold the Secretary of State very accountable if he does not carry out this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u51	I hope the report also goes to the Secretary of State! We're gonna do the best we can. Finally, I had an open point from Mr Van Kent's first term on piecework. The legal minimum wage is indeed the minimum. That's just the legal minimum. The piecework wage standard at wml level is agreed between social partners in the sector. Trade unions are therefore involved. If the employers' organisations themselves submit a standard, it must be approved by the review committees. In the case of parties to a collective agreement which include a piecework standard, it can only be above the wml level. So it's a higher reward than at wml level, otherwise you don't need a collective agreement. That was the last question that was open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u52	I believe that employers, or at least employers' organisations, can also apply for an exemption on their own. In my view, this means that it is much less secure than the Minister now suggests. But wouldn't the SP's proposal be much simpler? That is a very simple proposal, namely: we are moving away from the medieval system of piecework pay and we are moving towards an hourly wage for everyone, where, of course, the collective wage applies immediately instead of the minimum wage guarantee. I think that in all its simplicity is very attractive. It makes enforcement much easier for inspection, workers' rights are much clearer and it is also much clearer for employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u53	I find Mr Van Kent's request very charming, also charming. Nevertheless, I remain in line with my assessment of the amendment in the first period. On the subject of employers' organisations, this can only be done if a review committee approves it. So there are certain guarantees about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u54	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u55	If I'm well informed, that's the Labour Foundation. In my view, this does not necessarily mean that employees are represented and involved in drafting them. It is not for nothing that employers' organisations can make this request on their own. So I do not think those guarantees are as strong there as the Minister suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u56	I'm just reading my own notes right now. Either the social partners together or an employers' organization with an assessment by the review committee, indeed by the Foundation of Labour. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u57	We see great risks in that. I hope the Minister will not be surprised that we would like to put our amendment to the vote because we believe, in principle, that piecework belongs to the Middle Ages. We really need to put that time behind us and just reward workers properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u58	Clear, thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his contribution to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-11.u59	Vote on the law, the amendment and the motion tabled will take place next Tuesday, 14 November. I would like to take this opportunity immediately to mention that the vote on the motion will take place at the EU Defence Council on Thursday 9 September. That's next Thursday. November, excuse, excuse! November 9th.
