ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u1	Today we will continue with the discussion of the Social Affairs and Employment budget. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, the people in the public gallery, the Members of Parliament and the staff. The next item is the first term of office of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm standing here with a double feeling. That's what I mean positively, because I'm a guest here, but I feel a little at home here. After having been a member of your Chamber for seven years, it has always come home to this Chamber. I would like to thank your Chamber very much for yesterday's fine contribution. I thought it was an interesting debate. This morning you received a set of written answers, both from me and from the Secretary of State. I would like to thank the officials in the department for having worked through last night and last night to give those answers and to prepare my text. Hail for that. I'm on it now. I'm about to give you a sketch of the cubes that I want answers to. Rest assured: I'm not going to have very extensive reflections today. It's the last day before the recess; I understand that. I had Fidel Castro-like lyrics in preparation, but I'm gonna skip them today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr President, I hear that the Chamber needs that. I've prepared them, so I'll have to pronounce them as well. No? Okay. The question is: content or length? Both of them, of course. That's the way it's supposed to be. Mr. Chairman. Now, before I start the cubes, I'm gonna say this. What I liked in the debate yesterday was the discussion between Mr Özdil and Mr Heerma about the Dutch dream, the Dutch dream. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Eppo Bruins also spoke about this. I like that theme. You can see great political differences here. I really see political differences in opinion about how you look at society, but there is a broad sense of unrest in this Chamber, a feeling of: how do we deal with the threatening gap, with threatening contradictions in society, in the labour market and in the integration debate? It is precisely by using the political discussions to see where we can get together that we in this committee should try to overcome these contradictions in the near future. In Mr Özdil's speech, with a reference to his grandfather, and Mr Heerma's story about the Dutch dream, I see many points of departure, including policy. I will come back to that later, but as a kick-off I wanted to say that I like that point. It's a nice beginning of what's to come, because I want to plan and execute with you. I want to look to the future together, but I also want to build on what we already have. And that's okay with some Dutch dreaming in time. Mr Özdil asked me what kind of politician I want to be. I'm mostly a Dutch realist. I don't just want to dream about what can be done, but especially see how to do it and how to do it. I want to get things done; that is my motto for years to come. You do that by taking action and by working together. That will be my guidance for the coming time. Again, I don't have long introductions today. I will answer the questions thematically. I do, of course, have a brief outline of the coalition agreement on a subject-by-matter basis, because it must be contextualised, as the Prime Minister would say. I have three priorities. First of all, I want to restore the balance on the labour market and narrow the gap between fixed and flex. The reason for this is simple. I don't want a society of insiders and outsiders. Everyone deserves the same opportunities. My second priority is the renewal of the pension system. We need to break the deadlock and restore confidence in the system, for example by making the pension more personal and insightful. We really need to prevent generations from coming up against each other. The third priority during my presidency is that the policy of integration must be brought to fruition. Newcomers need to learn the language and work as quickly as possible. That is really not happening at all, with all the consequences. Joining in is the credo from day one. You will often hear this motto from me in the coming years; I warn you. On these three cubes I briefly go into my introduction. Next, I will deal with a number of issues that were raised yesterday, namely education and skills, labour and care, and a block of purchasing power. Afterwards, the Secretary of State will address the issues of pay dispensation, Wajong, labour discrimination, Inspection SZW, enforcement and poverty and debt. I will start with another block, namely the discussions I have had with the social partners and their results. Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Kuzu explicitly asked for this. Last Friday, I sent you a letter. Let me drop the door in the house: the situation I found at my arrival is very complex. Because there was...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u5	I'm a little confused, a point of order. Has the Minister now started answering the first block? Because I don't quite know what order all the cubes will come in, for example, the block of integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u6	For the sake of completeness. I have a block I'm starting right now, block zero: social partners. Then I have the labour market, pensions, integration, training, labour and care and purchasing power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u7	Okay, I get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u8	First of all, I would like to dwell on my letter from last Friday on the trial. Again, the situation I found was extremely complex. Over a year of negotiations between employers and employees on important issues in the labour market and during the formation the negotiations were not successful, but with a significant amount of mistrust between the parties as a result. I find that worrying, because I do not want a stalemate in the polder to paralyse the progress of the labour market and our pension system. Again, I'm a realist and I know you don't break a stalemate like that by trying the same thing every time. That is why I have had constructive discussions with social partners over the last six weeks. I've chosen another approach route, actually for five routes. That is what you read in my letter last Friday on the labour market balance. Careful coordination in those five routes is paramount. My efforts will continue to be focused on achieving maximum support. For each theme I have looked at what is now needed to make real meters. That is what I want to do in the years to come, together with you and with the social partners. Because together, we have to cut corners to reform the labour market and the pension system. I deliberately opted for different gears, different solutions and different partnerships. Because the issues before us are not only answered with the right answers, but also with the right process. Otherwise there will be a real standstill. Only by seeing the coherence can you make progress. In short, I want to bring about changes quickly, but with an outstretched hand. I am aiming for maximum support in the polder and in this Chamber, without losing speed. Because I also heard a number of times yesterday: make it quick! I also take that to heart. I now turn to a few questions about the timetable and the process. More substantive issues will be discussed in the individual blocks. Several parties have called on me to speed up consultations with the partners and to write the legislative proposals. Again, I take that call to heart, but haste is rarely good. That's what I'm saying. I want to be careful. I have outlined in my letter five routes that reflect a timeline of how I see the process and those legislative proposals in mind. The third route focuses on a number of topics related to the combination of fixed and flex. Mr Wiersma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins spoke in detail yesterday about the WWZ, the payroll, the transition allowance from day one and the premium differentiation in the WW on a proposal from SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party. I would like to send the legislation to the Chamber soon after the summer recess of 2018. Mr Wiersma asked if it would work before the summer. I really did the best I could. I've also looked at the most feasible timeline. We are dealing here with implementation tests, with an SME test that Mr Wiersma has asked for, and also with care. I am really going to put the turbo on this, as Mr Wiersma asked, with the aim of sending the bill to the Chamber in its entirety in the third quarter of 2018, including the process of the Council of State. You're noticing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u9	It would be helpful if you'd finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u10	I saw Mr. Wiersma get up, so I'd like to have a drink of my coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u11	Oh, then it's okay. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u12	I understand the point of care. I'll be the last one to say that doesn't matter. But the Minister has ambitions and also the ambition to make this happen quickly. This also means that it should not only go to the Lower House, but also to the Upper Chamber. I am therefore curious to see how the Minister sees his planning for this and also what the possible date of entry into force of the overall package is. Because that is something that should be rushed as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u13	I agree with Mr Wiersma. To quote Mr Frans Weekers, we are pulling on the same side of the rope. I have also asked internally what needs to be done. There must be consultation with the UWV and with the Social Insurance Bank. Then there must be a bill to the Council of State. There must be careful advice. It is just realistic to expect that after the summer we can submit the package to the House of Representatives. I hope, then, that I will also look at the President of the House of Representatives, so that it can go to the First Chamber very quickly afterwards. A large part of the laws must enter into force by 01-01-2020, but that means that you will have to be ready with legislation by 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u14	Second question, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u15	I just heard from my colleague that Mr Weekers also said that you should not sell tubers for lemons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u16	Oh, am I being accused of something now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u17	I'll take that right back, of course. In this context, it would be very important for our group to keep pace and to examine whether the entry into force would be possible even in the summer of 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm really gonna do my best. Once again, I fully agree with Mr Wiersma. I also think there should be speed here. It's been discussed for a long time. This type of subject has also been discussed in the polder for a long time. I'm gonna do it carefully. I am not going to make any chunks, but I take Mr Wiersma's appeal to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u19	It is good to hear that we have a minister who has the strength to act, who wants to speed up, with a hand out to the polder and to the Chamber. Well, it's a coincidence that there's already a bill on payrolling at the Council of State, of GroenLinks, the SP and the Labour Party. Is the Minister prepared to take a serious look at that? Then he does not have to wait until after the summer, but we can introduce that proposal very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u20	In my text I happened to have arrived at this exact block. All the proposals I mentioned, from WWZ and payroll to a transition fee from day one, relate to the balance between fixed and flex. This also applies, for example, to the payment of wages in the event of illness. These proposals all have to do with fixed and flex. I greatly appreciate the initiatives of the SP, the Labour Party and GroenLinks about payroll, but also about the premium fund. These issues are also included in the coalition agreement and are part of this legislative package. What I find complicated is that the package must, of course, be substantive and politically balanced. I can't shop out of parts. It is simply a total package that we have agreed on. I also feel responsible for achieving this overall package. So if Mr Gijs van Dijk says that he is going to look very positively at the overall package, then we are getting somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u21	The payroll legislation doesn't fall from the sky. Think of the Hamer motion from years ago and the social agreement. This has not been possible in the past period. Of course, there must be coherence, but this is actually a strengthening of the current security for employees. I understand that there must be political coherence, but if there really is a hand out of the cabinet, we should just do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u22	If you're gonna shake hands, you're gonna have to raise both hands. Once again, I appreciate the fact that two parts of the coalition agreement are now laid down separately in an initiative of the SP, the Labour Party and GroenLinks. There are some differences in content, but we are still going to talk about this in the substantive discussion. Once again, as Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said yesterday, it is a question of substance and political coherence. Mr Van Dijk is right that the discussion on payroll has been going on for some time, but that also applies to the discussion on WWZ. By taking these things together, I think you're strengthening the power.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u23	This minister wants to relax the right of dismissal. Would he like to explain the relationship between relaxing the right of dismissal and amending the legislation on payrolling, so that these people get an income that colleagues also have?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u24	I'd like that. I often hear that a lot of employers are reluctant to employ people on a permanent basis. They are willing to give people a flex contract, or two flex contracts, but then they have to look for someone else with a flex contract, because of all kinds of obligations linked to the employer. Part of that has to do with the Work and Security Act. Another example, which Mr Van Kent also spoke of yesterday, is the payment of wages in the event of illness. The other day I spoke to an employer from Dokkum, who said: I have hired someone who is now in the Disease Act and I have to pay them for two years, so I'm not going to give people a permanent contract anymore. If that's the situation we're in, something's gonna go wrong. With the combination of the adaptation of the Work and Security Act through a cumulation ground and a higher redundancy payment, which makes it a balanced proposal, we want to tempt employers to offer people a fixed contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u25	We're gonna talk about the right of dismissal. I am convinced that the right of dismissal is not a problem at all for an employer who deals well with his employees. But I don't understand the link with the payroll laws. Do I understand the Minister correctly that, as long as the right to dismiss is not relaxed, it is apparently fine that people have a payroll contract or that they work at Deliveroo as a bogus self-employed person? Is that all linked up like that? If the answer is yes, I do not understand it at all, because a number of things are simply undesirable and we have to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u26	Honestly, I don't understand this question. On the contrary, yesterday in the debate, it was very clear that everything has to do with each other. In recent years, you can see that the share of flex contracts in particular has increased significantly. The economy is attracting. The labour market is attracting attention. The number of permanent jobs is also increasing, but the number of flex contracts is still much higher. That has everything to do with our institutions and with how we arranged it in the Netherlands. We now want to do something about the fixed contract and pay for sickness. This makes it attractive for employers to employ people. At the same time we make flex a little more expensive again, for example because of the transition fee from day one or the premium differentiation in contracts. In this way, on two sides of this balance, we will bring the steady orbit closer. That's why my letter is also called "Towards a new balance on the labour market," which I thought was creatively made up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u27	I agree with the Minister on the substance. I have a question about the timetable. The Minister just said that he thought, and perhaps feared, that the law on flex and fixed in the third quarter would work, but that it would still have to be worked on. Will the Minister promise me that he will continue to make every effort to get the law into the Chamber a few weeks before the summer? I understand the Minister can't promise, but I just heard him say that the law comes in the third quarter. I would like to make that clear: but he is going to do everything in his power to get the law in the end of the second quarter here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u28	As I have just said to Mr Wiersma, I am going to do my very best. A complexity is that it is partly not in my hands, because it concerns, for example, opinions from the Council of State. Another complexity is that the summer recess of 2018 falls early. These are circumstances which I must take into account, but I hear the comments made by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van Weyenberg. I wrote them down and I'm on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u29	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u30	The second route in my letter is about the pension system. I'm still talking about the timetable and the process. I'll get to the contents in a minute. That's gonna get mixed up, I can see that now, but I'm gonna do my best. In the coalition agreement, in line with previous ESC opinions...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u31	Before you continue, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u32	Apologies, Mr. Chairman. I didn't realize the first block had already been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u33	No, I was still in the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u34	Okay, then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u35	In line with previous ESC opinions, the government agreement includes an ambitious package of measures to renew the pension system. This also requires a careful approach. The social partners have an important role to play here, as the cabinet recognises. The cabinet calls on the ESC to come forward with an opinion quickly on the renewal of the pension system. Mr Wiersma asked me yesterday about the planning I have in mind in this area. I am trying to reach an agreement with the social partners at the beginning of 2018 on the implementation of the broad lines of the frameworks contained in the government agreement on the pension dossier. The objective behind this is that the legislation will be passed by 2020. This means that between mid-2018 and 2020 we have time to work out the legal technique, make the sums and work out other things. So that's the timeline. I predict that there will be a long transition period after that, but there will have to be an agreement on the broad lines at the beginning of 2018 and the legislation will have to be drafted by 2020. Finally, Mr President. Route 1 in my letter is about the skills, the securities needed for the labour market for the future. These include lifelong learning, sustainable employability and retraining and further training. In the discussions with the social partners on this subject, which is also mentioned in my letter on rail transport, as far as I am concerned, is also covered from work to work. Mr Heerma referred to that yesterday. One can't do without the other. Without the right skills it is difficult to change jobs and without changing jobs it is difficult in some sectors to achieve a healthy finish line. I often give the example of the firefighter, where they are presented at the age of 45: what position are you going to perform for the rest of your career so that you also get to the finish line healthy? That really has to be the norm. I happened to open up a subsidy scheme two weeks ago for career advice from the age of 45, precisely from this point of view. I also note yesterday's debate and the amendment that was tabled that this can count on a warm interest in this Chamber. As employers and workers are primarily responsible for the training of workers, agreements on this matter with the social partners are of great importance, as Mr Van Weyenberg rightly pointed out yesterday. The talks will take place in the coming period. The Minister of Education has already indicated in the budget debate that the Cabinet will be sending a letter to the Chamber for the summer on the state of lifelong learning, including the individual learning account. Mr. Chairman. This was all trial and timeline. I hope that I have answered the questions that have been asked. I shall now turn to the content of the legislative proposals. Then I come first of all to the labour market block. The labour market can be a lot fitter, even though you might think it's going pretty well. There were new numbers this morning. The labour market is just going like a spear. The number of vacancies is rising, unemployment is falling as a madman and today unemployment is under 400,000. And that's just good news. The lowest point in eight years. The number of working 55-plussers has never been this high. I also think that this is important to stress. In the last 50 years, unemployment only fell faster than it is today in the 1990s. They are records to be proud of and also praised for the previous cabinet for the measures taken. I also look at Mr Gijs van Dijk to strengthen the starting position. But if you look closely, you can see that the labour market is not up to new developments that affect us. Trends such as digitisation, robotisation and globalisation make jobs change, disappear, but also arise. Only a fit labour market can cope with such changes. What you see is that the balance of the labour market has been disrupted. Flexible and fixed work once supplemented each other, were interrelated, but in recent years these two have grown more and more apart. Some people have a fixed contract with a high level of protection and security and have the opportunity to develop, while others, for example, can no longer take out a mortgage by means of a more flexible contract; they therefore themselves bear all kinds of risks and there is no room for development. A healthy labour market is like a gel-oiled machine that keeps itself and all the wheels running. In such a labour market, people are given the opportunity to work in a way that suits them. They get the chance to grow, to develop. In such a labour market people also get a fit pension, there is perspective on a match. In summary, there is a development from job security to job security. We have to have the courage to make choices. How do you handle flexibilisation? How do we stay healthy until we retire? How do you keep people developing? The point of departure of the cabinet is, of course, that work must pay again. We need to restore balance on the labour market. The gap between fixed and flex leads to an unacceptable gap in opportunities. I don't want a society of insiders and outsiders. That is why I think it is extremely important that we reduce these gaps. Not by removing all the differences, I believe that Mr Özdil said yesterday that some forms of flexwork are very good and offer people a chance to get in between them, but rather by working on a new balance that suits these times. In this context, Mr Heerma raised the interesting question of what the measures I have the greatest confidence in are. I thought about that last night and last night. I'm going to give an evasive answer, excuse me for that, but I think it's precisely the integrated approach that is needed. Mr Heerma and I have negotiated the coalition agreement together and we also know the background to the discussion. It is precisely the fact that we chose to do both at the negotiating table, and to be firm and flexible, and also to see coherence in this, that I think is the added value of these plans. Out of the blue, those might all be little schemes. From the transition fee from day one you can ask yourself what it represents, but if you add up all those things together, the transition fee, the differentiation in contracts, but also thezzp'ers at the bottom, the approach of the payroll, the zero-hour approach, has a balance. I think that's where the added value lies. Then I would like to answer a number of specific questions raised by your Chamber. I'll start with Mr Van Kent. This is in line with the speech I just made towards Mr Heerma. Contrary to Mr Van Kent's suggestion, the cabinet is establishing a more balanced cabinet and flex, because in its analysis of the labour market, the cabinet makes a distinction between the different forms of flex. The labour market position ofzzp'ers is substantially different from that of employees with a flexible contract. I shall look at Mr Van Weyenberg, who is most satisfied with their position as a zzp'er. Only a small part would prefer a permanent job. The reverse is the case for people with a flex contract. The majority of them are dissatisfied with their position and prefer a fixed contract. I think it is very important to include this distinction in the way you look at the labour market. The cabinet is therefore committed to improving the position of flex contracts. On the one hand, by focusing on less flexible employment contracts, by strengthening the legal status of workers on call contracts, which means that payroll is no longer an instrument for competition on working conditions. Where I disagree with Mr Van Kent, the cabinet believes that the permanent contract should also be attractive. I have just had an interrupting debate on this. It is precisely through this balance, precisely by doing both sides, that you achieve more balance in the labour market. If you're just gonna pull on one side, you're not gonna restore that balance and you're actually gonna have the risk of getting back into new forms, like contracting, to get out of the permanent contract. So you have to do both to be able to take a step forward. I can therefore be clear about Mr Özdil's question on the type of employment I want. That follows on from this discussion. It is my ambition that more people can work in contracts for an indefinite period of time. Mr Özdil agrees. Mr Wiersma asked me to take concrete cases out of practice in the draft law on cumulation of dismissal rights. I am already working hard on the elaboration of this measure from the coalition agreement and, of course, I am also looking at the practice of dismissal, just how things are going in practice. Although this does not mean that we will re-assess a specific case, because I cannot sit on the judge's seat. I can, of course, take the experience and incorporate it into the legislative proposal, but not look back on concrete cases. In order to bring the law into line with practice, employers and employees will be involved as an additional guarantee in the development of that measure. I am also aware of the practical applicability of the other measures, including those for small employers. Mr Wiersma mentioned an SME test. It does not exist formally, but I do understand what Mr Wiersma means by this point. We'll take it into account. Another block of questions is about thezzp'ers and the DBA Act. I am going to go into this a little more in detail, because a great deal of attention was rightly drawn to it yesterday, but it is also a complex subject. This falls in route 4 of my letter Towards a new balance on the labour market, together with the impact of the payment of wages in the event of illness. There's a lot to do and it's complicated, I'm just saying. It's not for nothing that I've disconnected this route from other routes, because there's just a lot of work to be done there. I hear a lot of questions about the qualification ofzzp'ers, because on the one hand there is the uncertainty that real self-employed people and their clients are currently experiencing since the introduction of the DBA Act. On the other hand, I hear a lot of noises about organizations working with bogus self-employed people. It is precisely the balance between these two that is a complex discussion for me. I fully understand your impatience in the Chamber to deal with this matter. I'm unbearable, too. I have also heard Mr Wiersma's question to put the turbo on it. Mr Wiersma is a fan of turbo. I heard that very well. Let me first outline the agreements in the coalition agreement and then take a number of steps to get ahead with this. In the coalition agreement, the cabinet announced that it would replace the DBA Act, because this law did not provide the clarity that was desired and did not lead to restraint on the part of clients when it came to the hiring of swp'ers in false self-employment. In reply to Mr Bruins' question, can I outline what the new law is going to look like? The law is replaced by three measures. First of all, people working at low rates are given a contract of employment in the government agreement between €15 and €18 or 125% of the WML in the case of regular business activities or activities lasting more than three months. Secondly, according to the government agreement above €75, people who can apply for higher rates for their work are offered the option of opt-out from the payroll tax and employee insurance if they provide their services or do not carry out regular business activities for less than a year. Third, a client can obtain a prior declaration of assurance on the liability or non-payment of payroll taxes and employee insurance premiums, of course as long as work is carried out in accordance with the provided information of that client's statement. These are the three steps taken under the coalition agreement. Again, this is behind a complexity of legislation, enforcement and feasibility. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State for Finance and I want to remove the current unrest as quickly as possible and give as much clarity as possible, as many groups in your Chamber. However, these are major changes to labour law with major implications for implementation, enforcement and tax administration. This means that we must be careful in our work. Besides, it shouldn't be a drawing board exercise. The danger is that we'll end up in the drip again and haven't solved a problem yet. That is why we are going to listen carefully to field parties, such as thezzp organisations, employers and employees, so that the measures are also feasible in practice. I can inform you that in the meantime, together with the Secretary of State for Finance and the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, I have sent an invitation to thezzp organisations to meet at the end of January and to explore all options from the government agreement, as well as to look more broadly at the future of thezzp'er. That will happen at the end of January. So we've got to work on this and we've got to work on it with all the agencies. In my letter, I indicated that I would aim for entry into force by 2020. I understand very well that this feels very far away, but such major amendments require a legislative amendment and need adaptation in implementation and enforcement. It is therefore already an ambitious objective to aim for 1 January 2020. The focus of the cabinet.................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Client Declaration could enter into force by 2020. Mr Van Weyenberg asked for that. I see a few people eagerly impatience to ask a question about this!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u36	I see them, too. Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u37	The Law DBA is gone. There will be new plans from the cabinet, which we will certainly look at carefully, but we are now living in a sort of no-man's-land. In particular, it affects the bogus self-employed. Yesterday we talked in the Chamber about Deliveroo, about the bicycle delivery guys. We also see it in the cleaning. We'll see it in the restaurant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u38	Your question is...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u39	My question is what the Minister will do in the meantime to maintain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u40	Mr President, with your permission, I will come back to that in a moment. This is right up ahead in my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u41	It is very good that the Minister wishes to explicitly involve many parties in the plans forzzp'ers. Thezzp'ers have also been in the newspaper the last few days with exactly that call. It is therefore very good that this is being followed up, but they have another call, namely to come up quickly with clarity and clarity. That's what the Minister says: that's nice; I heard that turbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u43	I'm also curious how he's going to apply it, because of course there's a group ofzzp'ers, those are the real entrepreneurs...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u44	The Minister. The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u45	...who have been in uncertainty for the past year. Can we not give them more clarity, for example in those criteria...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u46	It must be really short, Mr. Wiersma, really. I'm getting really annoying today. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u47	I can tell, but it's gonna be okay. Can you do it faster, is my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u48	The same goes for you! Can you do it faster, Mr. Wiersma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u49	I understand Mr Wiersma's impatience. However, I have outlined that it is really very complex in practice, including in the legislation and also in its implementation. So I understand impatience, but I don't want to make mistakes either. I do not want to have the situation again that we are not removing the unrest, which is our goal, but making it bigger. I therefore ask for some understanding of this complex implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u50	Very quickly, very briefly. There's always that understanding. Only it would help the realzzp'ers if there was clarity, for example by clarifying the relationship of authority and also by clarifying the higher rate. Couldn't this be done already in January 2019, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u51	I'm gonna think about it and I'm gonna come back to that in second term. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u52	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thezzp-ship and everything around it has a lot of advantages, especially when you have a good time, but it also has a lot of disadvantages. In any case, the Minister is working on it now. That's good to know, but I'm still curious what he's going to do for the people who, for example, are under the €15 to €18 per hour on assignments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u54	The coalition agreement is very clear in that respect. People who are below €15 to €18 or 125% of WML are not zzp'ers in the future. That means there's an employment contract.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u55	That's kind of crazy. There are a lot of people who, for example, take assignments in totals and use an x-number of hours for that. If you would calculate that back, they could do so for example for €10 per hour. In other words, what is the signal to these people, who are trying to fight the best for each other for their little business as a zzp'er or in other ways? Are they gonna be zzp'er or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u56	This question is actually divided into two parts. The first part is: do you think this group is an entrepreneur or should actually be employed? The answer in the coalition agreement is clear: pay. The second point is precisely why this legislation is so complex. I understand Mr De Jong's signals very well, because I have them myself: how are you going to maintain that, how are you going to do that in practice? That's why we really need time to work this out. Let me add that this is not a new area. In the Netherlands, for example, we also have the Law minimum wage. Such a structure could also be used to evade the law. It is also maintained in practice. It has also become a standard for employers to apply. But Mr De Jong is right. In the execution is the complexity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u57	I think that in the second term Mr Wiersma and I will challenge the Minister a little more about this clarification forzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u58	Oh, is there a threat here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u59	This is called a heads-up. In good Dutch, that is an announcement, I believe. I have a question about the business agreement, so the more far-reaching look in the government agreement at its own legal position. That too is very complicated and must be careful. Can the Minister indicate what the timetable is? I assume that all the legislation does not stop thinking either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u60	Definitely not. I take two things from Mr Van Weyenberg: the re-evaluation of the relationship of authority, not in execution but in the Civil Code, which is also covered by a passage in the government agreement, and the business agreement. They fall into my letter on track one. That requires a fundamental exploration. I find it very difficult to outline a timetable for this, because it really needs to be given fundamental consideration. But I'm going to start this discussion now so I can finish it in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u61	Would the Minister, in his conversation with the Secretary of State for Finance with the organisations ofzzp'ers and I hope that with a number of individualzzp'ers, in addition to the legislation for the follow-up of the DBA Act, also want to put that future exploration on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u62	Yeah, I will. I'm just not going to mention a specific term. I think that's too much of a link right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u64	Then I'll come back to the point of... But now Mr Gijs van Dijk is not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u65	There is, but just...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr Gijs van Dijk had just had an interruption on the enforcement and discussion of an individual company. I've listened very carefully. I have widely felt the inconvenience in the Chamber and I have also heard the call for attention to enforcement when it comes to false self-employment. I think it is a dilemma, as I have outlined before. In addition to removing unrest for clients and for the self-employed, there are also in practice constructions that resemble false self-employment that I would like to do something about. As you can see, I am not going to judge individual companies. That does not suit me, but the signals that come from the Chamber and from the hearings are clear. The Secretary of State for Finance has also made it very clear in the General Financial Reviews. So I think it is also a worrying development. The measures in the coalition agreement take important steps to address this, in particular with regard to the minimum rate. What I can already say to Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Dijk is that, by means of a letter from me and the Secretary of State for Finance, I will let you know how the cabinet continues to enforce the evildoers until the new legislation comes into force. That letter comes in the course of January, end of January.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u67	Is this a new letter or is this the letter that also affects the job economy, to which the Minister referred earlier this week in answers? Is there also a very explicit consideration of the role that the Inspection SZW can play in this regard? Previously on PostNL, there has also been a reference to mainly the Tax Administration. There is a motion by Mr Van Weyenberg and myself that says that the inspection should also have a role to play there. We're making more money for the inspection. That's also aimed at constructions. Does the inspection therefore have an explicit role to play in this and will it be addressed in the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u68	Mr Heerma's first question was whether it was a new letter. Yeah, it's a new letter. The research on the platform economy was completed in March, as I indicated in the replies to Mr Özdil. This is a new letter when it comes to thezzp, because I think the signals are very clear, also considering what has happened in the Lower House over the last few weeks. The second question. Of course, there are more instruments. The SZW inspection the Secretary of State is about to go into it in detail in the field of risk-oriented supervision and also looks at where labour legislation is not being complied with. That is certainly something that needs to be taken into account. You also have the legal minimum wage. We've got the Law Approach bogus constructions. So there are different legal possibilities and constructions, which are certainly always used. What I want to do in the letter is, together with Secretary of State Menno, quickly give a broader outline of how we are going to deal with the debate on thezzp in the near future, in anticipation of the legislation that is coming. But that's a new letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u69	A letter with reflections is always welcome, of course, fine. But I actually have a very simple question for the Minister. In the case of Deliveroo or other companies where this is going on, is this cabinet going to maintain it, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u70	It's always enforced in accordance with the law. The complexity of this situation is that the legislation that we have in mind is not yet in place. It is a complicated issue, in which I must also be careful. I must therefore also ensure that I do not create any new unrest in the labour market, in clients, inzzp'ers. I just need to be careful around here. That is why, in response to Mr Heerma's questions, I said that letter towards the end of January. That is because I find an important signal from the Chamber, but also because I do not have the solution right now. I'm gonna have to think about it a little longer. I also hope that Mr Van Kent will understand this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u71	Yeah, "think longer about it." I mean, this has been going on for a long time. The government's been informed a long time. We've asked written questions about it. That's when the investigation was announced, that we'll get somewhere in March. We all see what's happening, and so does the Minister. I really can't understand why the Minister here is saying that we need to be careful. No, the cabinet has to act hard. What's happening here can't be. Therefore again the question: is this minister prepared to act in the case of Deliveroo and similar situations, or does the Minister choose to send letters, investigate and be cautious?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u72	I understand Mr Van Kent's rhetorical trick. I would like to point out that I do not want to create new unrest. Because if I were to create new unrest, Mr Van Kent would be right back at the interrupting microphone to ask how I'm going to fix this. What I have indicated, also in response to questions from Mr Heerma, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Kent yesterday, is that I take the signals about false self-employment very seriously, that I am going to work on this and that I am going to see what can be done. The existing tools are: the Wet approach dummy constructions, the WML, the Inspection SZW and risk-oriented supervision. But I do need the time. I've been Minister for six weeks now, so yes, some things aren't going so fast that I can come up with a letter next month, along with Secretary of State Snel, how to deal with it. The signal from society and from this Chamber is clear and I'm working on it. But I'm not going to raise expectations that I can't live up to. I hope you can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u73	Then I will go to Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u74	There is also the regime of the evildoers, which lies with Finance. Is the Minister willing to look into that when it comes to Deliveroo?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'm not going to make statements about individual companies. I hope you can understand that. In my position, that's complicated. But indeed, the existing practice is, also following the DBA Act, enforcement of the evildoers. I'm gonna take a look at that, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u76	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u77	This was my block of labor, Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u78	A question of order: if we assume that the Minister is done with hiszzp-block, I do not think I will be able to answer my questions on the possibility of taking out insurance at the minimum rate forzzp-ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u79	I do not think it is in the written set. In my opinion, Mr Van Weyenberg gave an excellent answer yesterday: precisely the rate setting in the case of 125% WML is, of course, based on the idea that it is above what we normally use as a minimum, in which there is room to pay premiums. Mr Özdil also knows that there is no obligation to take out such insurance, but there is room for that. Therefore, 125% WML is included.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u80	80% of the employees do not have disability insurance. 70% of them indicate that's because they think it's too expensive. Does the Minister agree with me that a free choice to take out insurance is only a reality if there is actually the financial opportunity to pay for that insurance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yes, I agree. This was taken into account in the coalition agreement when the tariff was built up. By the way, in the written set that was sent this morning, there is a reference to the consultation with the Association of Insurance Companies, which I have at the beginning of next year on these issues. But that question has been answered in writing, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u82	The Minister's response is optimistic. Can I therefore assume that he will take my request with him to include this point of departure in the final determination of the minimum rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u83	Yeah, that's already done. So I can easily commit to that. It's already in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u84	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u85	Finalizing, Chairman, question 1c. I have here a commitment from the Minister that the minimum rate that is to come will be at least enough to enable that insurance to be taken out. Then you have a free choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u86	Just for completeness, clarity and purity, the following. My answer was just: in the tariff arrangement in the coalition agreement, 125% WML was chosen, which is more than 100% WML, the minimum, precisely to create space for these kinds of aspects. So I do not have to make the commitment, because he is already in the coalition agreement. But if Mr Özdil wants to, I'm going to take his signal. Already did, but I'm so incredibly flexible I'm taking it back. Mr. Chairman. Block 2, the pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u87	I have received a reply from the Minister to my question on the service of the UWV, in the context of good guidance for people into the labour market. We have indeed received positive news today. I wonder if it would have come true if it had been less positive. I have a question for the Minister. The minister says that everything is fine with the UWV, but we have asked for more customization. We now see and hear the following about the service. We're getting reports about that. I quote from an internal memo from UWV: "customers with the bsn-terms 8 and 9 get online services and customers with the bsn-terms 0 to 7 get regular services...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u88	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u89	... If there are questions about why one customer gets an invitation to a conversation and the other doesn't, we say that we tailor the service to what we think the customer needs." That's not customization, is it? With one bsn-number you go in one mill and with the other you go in another mill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mrs Van Brenn's question contains two aspects. The first is the suggestion that the CBS would not be independent. I want to take it away. The CBS published this data this morning. We really have no influence on timing. I'd like to have that named anyway. Then there is the second point. Just for customization at the UWV, 70 million has been made available for more face-to-face conversations in the coalition agreement. Those 70 million are divided over both the WW pathway and the disability pathway, precisely from the point of view of: how do we ensure that the UWV can provide more services to help people from a distance to the labour market to get a job? The parties of the coalition believe that more attention should be paid to this. The coalition agreement is also clear about this. That is why 70 million has been earmarked for these activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u91	I was just telling you how it treats UWV people. I would really like to know from the Minister whether he approves of this kind of thing and whether he thinks it is custom-made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u92	I'm gonna check this out and then I'll get back to you in the second term. I don't know this example of those bsn numbers, so I think it's dangerous to philosophize about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u93	I've got it right here, so I can give it to you in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yeah, if you give it to me, I can get it sorted out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u95	Yes. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u97	In this small block, I think I can also ask a question about unemployment rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u98	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u99	I would like to know from the Minister how many people currently have jobs of under 12 hours a week, how many of the new jobs added is a flex job and how many flex jobs are currently in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u100	I remember sending written answers to 395 questions related to the budget, including a set sent to the Chamber last week. There are a lot of factual questions about the composition of the labour market and the number of hours. I can send the answers to these specific questions to you in writing later, but I do not know by heart. The only figure I remember is the number of permanent jobs, which has grown by about 50,000 in the last year, and the number of flex jobs, which has grown by about 100,000. But now I'm going to philosophize and associate freely, and I think that's dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u101	The reason I am asking this question is that figures came out this morning. The Minister says that he is extremely proud, while the figures show that a lot of people have flex jobs, a lot of people don't have permanent jobs and a lot of people still want to work more than they do at the moment. How does he rhyme with his sense of pride? The Minister doesn't know the figures by heart either, but good. If he sees that a lot of people are still on the sidelines, how does he rhyme with his sense of pride?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u102	My pride lies in the fact that unemployment has fallen very quickly and that a lot of people have a job again. They have no benefit and are not on the sidelines, but are back at work. I think that's a good thing. At the same time, Mr De Jong's entire speech is proof of the importance of the coalition agreement. I have just indicated that precisely the development of flex jobs and the gap between fixed and flex jobs is one of the developments that worries me. We want to do something about that to bring it closer together and bring more permanent jobs into reach. In fact, Mr De Jong says that he wholeheartedly supports the coalition agreement, and I think that is positive news.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u103	No. What I am saying is that there are still 1.3 million people with unused labour resources on the sidelines. And then there's a minister right about there with a red nose, orange hair, champagne bottles and confetti to bring out the new unemployment figures. But the reality is that at the moment there are very many people who are dealing with that uncertainty, who are living in insecurity and who do not have their financial space in order. And then this minister says, "It's really nice." I just want to know from the Minister how many people currently have a job of less than 12 hours, so that we can get those people back to permanent employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u104	I reject Mr De Jong's suggestion in this question. Of course, there are still more than 1.3 million people in benefits. I think it's more like 1.6 million people. The coalition agreement is very broad in that respect: the Secretary of State is working on the pay dispensation and the Wajong, and I am working on the integration agenda. How do we get people out of welfare? How do we ensure that people who are partially disabled can get a job again? How do we get people in the Wajong to get a job? In other words, I say in the direction of Mr De Jong: how do all those who are still on the sidelines get a chance to participate in the labour market? Mr De Jong mixed this with the specific question of how many jobs there are with less than 12 hours a week. I don't know. I would like to have it looked up for you on Statline of the CBS, so that you can get an answer to that in the second term, but I simply do not agree with the suggestion in Mr De Jong's question. For the first time in years, it is going well again: unemployment is falling. Let's be happy about that. At the same time, I note that growth is mainly in flex jobs, and I have just made a whole argument that we are going to do something about it in order to make the permanent job available again. Mr. Chairman. Retirement, block two. Our pension system is one of the best in the world, according to all those international rankings. But also if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u105	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u106	I would suggest that the Minister finish this block first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u107	Well, I'm just getting started on the pension block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u108	All right, I'll give Mr Wiersma the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr President, I apologize. I had to get out of the hall from behind. I asked a question yesterday because there is an investigation into the nature and extent and growth of the job economy and any bottlenecks in it. We feel the need to take a broader look at where the employment contract is cramped with how we have completed labour law. Our request yesterday was whether the Minister is prepared to carry out further investigation into this matter. In the answers he states that he does not want to anticipate this investigation. But we had a discussion yesterday about contracting and other forms that arise. In any case, could the Minister promise that, once that study on the job economy has been completed, he would like to take further steps by looking at other forms, which not only affect the job economy but are important for the future of the contract of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u111	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u112	So we have a good pension system. But it's like we have a collective blind spot for the strong signals out there. Older people who are angry because their pension hasn't been indexed for years. And of young people who are afraid that there will be no money left for them at all. Frankly, we've raised expectations that you can't live up to, and that creates uncertainty. We have to stop people from going mentally. I want to renew our pension system and not, as Mr De Jong suggested yesterday, abolish it. I am not doing that because I want to reform so badly, but to restore confidence in the system. Of course, I can't do that alone. The social partners play an extremely important role in this. First of all, because the pension is, of course, an employment condition, but also because you can only set up and carry out such a large operation well and carefully together. For example, it is important that the transition to a new building system does not exclude groups, and that the effects of the transition are balanced for all participants. The cabinet helps, by providing extra fiscal space during the transition in the government agreement and by setting up frameworks that allow for customization. At the same time as abolishing the average system, the transition to a new pension contract, as stated in the government agreement, will be greatly facilitated. To Mr Van Kent, I say that a balanced transition to a new way of pension building is a joint task for the social partners and the cabinet. It is really necessary that we do this together. The debate on the sustainability of the pension system is not today's or yesterday's. She hasn't been here since the coalition agreement either. We've been talking about it for ten years. In 2009 and 2010, the Goudswaard Committee and the Frijns Committee identified the structural problems of the pension system. During the previous cabinet period, social partners, the pension sector and experts made a strong contribution to the National Pension Dialogue. In 2015, the Economic and Social Council issued an important pension opinion, and in 2016 supplemented that opinion. So there is still a lot of good material that we can build on. In addition, all parties attach importance to a good occupational pension system. We have a shared interest in this. That is why I am convinced that at the beginning of next year we will be able to take good steps together in the ESC. Mr Özdil also asked about this. Because together, we need to find answers for a pension system that can last for decades, a system that is better suited to the changing way we live and work, better suited to people's personal needs, and which we can rely on again. That's what we're doing it for. Mr Van Kent explicitly asked: why are we doing this? For this. It must be clear what you can expect from your pension, for example with a pension contract with personal pension assets. There needs to be a more neutral way of building up pensions, where contributions and accrued rights are better balanced. In response to Mr Özdil's question, I would like to make it easier forzzp'ers to participate in the building-up of pensions. Again, I do not want society of insiders and outsiders. Finally, I would like to see whether more options can be created, a tailor-made pension. Of course, we should not throw away the baby with the bath water, because collectivity, risk sharing and compulsoryation are wonderful core values that we need to preserve in our pension system. But only by changing in time can we also preserve these beautiful core values and restore confidence in the system together. Mr. Chairman. A link to life expectancy is important for the sustainability of the old-age provision system. I'm also...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u113	Finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u114	Well, I'm actually going to the AOW and other forms, and I think Mr Van Rooijen, who's on the interrupting microphone, wants to talk about the discount rate. Of course, I'd like to think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u115	I am surprised that, when I talk about the pension system for five minutes, the Minister does not give me any answer about the discount rate while he provoked it himself. I am also very disappointed by the written answers we received last night. I asked a question about Article 83 of the Pension Act, and I did indeed talk about the discount rate. I want an answer to both questions. The Minister says about Article 83: well, that is also on the agenda; it affects Article 83, so that will be part of it. I would like to know whether the Minister intends simply to delete Article 83, as was the case in the real system. And I want to know from the Minister why he thinks that risk-free interest is the best way for the current system, and whether only that risk-free interest rate is not simply the cause of the loss of confidence. You didn't agree to that. I don't think that's very fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u116	I can go into this for a long time, but I'm still trying to be brief, if that's okay with you. I have also said in my written set, which was sent to you this morning, that Article 83 of the Pension Act will be part of all discussions on the future of the system. As I have just pointed out to Mr Wiersma, it is really a question of the fact that there is a great deal of technique between an agreement on the broad lines and implementation in legislation. This includes the entry into force of old rights, premiums and transition. I'm sure it'll come back to that. That is what my reply refers to in the written set. On the second point, that of risk-free interest rates, Mr Van Rooijen has often had a discussion, including with my predecessors and the previous cabinet. Let me be very brief about that, because we can really have a separate AO on the whole pension system for once; I think that is wiser. I am in favour of using risk-free interest rates because it is the same in determining the level of cover for pensions on both sides of the balance sheet. The liabilities and assets of a pension fund shall be valued in the same way. If you're going to charge a different interest rate on one side of the balance sheet, with an artificial, higher interest rate, you're actually giving a wrong idea of things. I don't think that's justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u117	We may have an AO on this one time, but we are talking about a big subject here. The Minister actually says that all the technology is still under discussion. I would now like to hear from the Minister in charge whether he is going to delete Rule 83. That's a common expropriation. That's boarding. If the cabinet intends to do so, we will be fighting it from this moment on. The real contract has also been wrecked. I said: we are going to Strasbourg. Then we'll go to Luxembourg later. You are here to throw 1,400 billion over the fence and board it, because you say that you are just going to put the existing claims in a personal jar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u118	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u119	That is a very fundamental choice. I don't understand why you're walking all the way down there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u120	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u121	You didn't even give me an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u122	I do not really understand Mr Van Rooijen's emotion. I have indicated that all these issues will come back to fruition. No decision has yet been taken at all; let alone an agreement on the main points. We need to develop this in this field in the near future. Then this subject will certainly come back. I just said that. There is no cabinet position on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u123	But you also know that the ESC has been working on this for years. I also asked you whether you would like to submit the calculations of the intermediate variant or ask the ESC. I can't get an answer to that either. That's where you're all going. Do you know what the Dutch translation of the French "fait accompli" is? We are going to get a whole law through the Economic and Social Council, which will then just be rushed through and that you can't change anything about. The elderly have checked and lost their collective claim, their property rights. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u124	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u125	Mr Van Rooijen really goes through this discussion with hiccups. I have just outlined that this discussion has been taking place since 2010, through the Goudswaard Committee, the Frijns Committee, ESC opinions and parts, that the Economic and Social Council, in which employers, employees and Crown members are present, should come up with a broad opinion, that we need a year and a half to work all this out in legislation and in a translation and that it is really too early to have this discussion at the moment. I understand Mr Van Rooijen's question, but if we have been having this discussion for ten years and Mr Van Rooijen translates it into a 'fait agree', I think that is a complex observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u126	Mr Van Rooijen, this is your fourth question at this point; I say that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u127	We now have a coalition agreement. In it, it is clear that the coalition agreement actually takes over the expected SER advice that you know for a long time, but that depends on the calculations. That's the failure accompli I'm referring to. Let me ask you another question. You're defending the existing accounting rate. For the premium calculation, the expected return shall be used. It is completely inconsistent that you are allowed to work for the premiums with expected return and not for the obligations; everyone thinks so, including De Nederlandsche Bank. That's double standards, just like the UFR. Insurance companies have 4% and pension funds now have 2%. Those are totally different treatments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u128	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u129	The danger is that three things will be mixed up here: the UFR, the premium fixing and the coverage method. I would like to go into that, but I'm afraid that's just gonna take more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u130	Will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u131	I think it would be wise to do this separately once in a general discussion and not here in the budget, unless the President...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u132	Then what are we talking about here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u133	There is no proposal from the ESC yet. The Economic and Social Committee must reach an agreement on the main points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u134	I'm gonna step in. This is a budget. If you wish to devote the budget treatment to pensions, Mr Van Rooijen, then you must make an order proposal. Then we are going to have a different kind of debate, but there are about eight items on the agenda, including pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u135	Yes, but pensions are the responsibility of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u136	Of course. That's why I'm giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u137	If we don't talk about that in the budget and if they're thrown away in an AO, after there's gonna be a failure accompli... The minister said there's nothing yet, but if there is, it's too late. I warn you here for the last time: this must not happen. Article 83 is a property right and otherwise we will go to Luxembourg. The Treaty of Lisbon gives that opportunity. As a participant, you go to your pension fund, you ask for compensation and you say you want to retain your right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u138	I take note of this. We will continue to work out the agreement. I hope that the Economic and Social Council will reach an agreement on pensions at the beginning of 2018. That's already under consideration. This includes Article 83. That's what we're gonna talk about when that's agreed. Before that is speculation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u139	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u141	So I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u142	This is not an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u143	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u144	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to the debate on the sustainability of the system and its link to life expectancy. I am very pleased that Mr Gijs van Dijk said yesterday that the freezing of the AOW age is not real. I'm really happy about that. At the same time, in your Chamber, including Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Özdil and Mr Van Kent, I am very concerned about the rise in retirement age and whether people can make it to the end. I understand very well that there are concerns about this. Therefore, much attention has also been paid in the coalition agreement to the ability to work until the age of AOW. Among other things, it stressed the importance of lifelong learning and an ambitious, age-conscious staff policy, and the role of the social partners in this process. It was also stated in the government agreement that the cabinet would look at possible obstacles to longer working. This could include part-time pensions and generation pact schemes. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked me yesterday whether I am prepared to consult with employers and employees on these issues. Sure. I am certainly prepared to do so, because I do see opportunities to find a solution for people who are struggling to reach a healthy retirement age. It is good to look at the precise problems and the solutions that can be found in this consultation with employers and employees. But you can see from my answer that I see a lot of space there. I also call on employers and employees to take that space together and to find a solution. These solutions must, of course, be sustainable. Mr Heerma was right to ask yesterday: how are we finally going to regulate education structuralally, precisely to ensure that people are able to reach the AOW age in a healthy way? It must also fit in with the financial frameworks, but I am certainly prepared to consult with the social partners on these broad issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u145	However, I would suggest that you conclude this issue, pensions, first, because there cannot be a number of interruptions after each sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u146	I'm done with pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u147	All right, then Mr Özdil has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u148	If I understand correctly, the Minister also wants a regulation for people in heavy professions so that they can retire early. He thinks that is desirable, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u149	What is complicated about this discussion about heavy-duty professions is that it has been going on for a long time. Social partners have also recently concluded that it is almost impossible to distinguish between what is a heavy occupation and what is not a heavy occupation. There are also figures that say that 50% of the Netherlands actually have a heavy occupation. I can imagine that, too. Think about teachers, nurses, construction workers and street makers. There are other definitions. I see Mr Grashoff shaking his head now. There has been a lot of thought and talk about it, but there is no clear definition of heavy-duty professions. That is why, in my reply, I also indicated that we need to look for specific solutions to specific problems, not generic solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u150	The EIB has a definition of heavy sectors. I've asked questions about that, too. That definition is: a sector in which the risk of disability is twice as high as the average, we can define it as heavy. Other countries have done the same. That works. What is the Minister's reflection on that? Is he willing to look at that definition and try to implement it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u151	This discussion has been going on for a while, since the 2009 pension agreement. There has always been an attempt to find a definition. A few months ago, before this cabinet was set up, social partners also sent a letter stating that it is actually impossible and that it is not the solution. The solution lies in specific solutions to specific problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u152	Is the Minister going to talk about the AOW or is this matter over with?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u153	I said that I was pleased with Mr Van Dijk's words that freezing the AOW age is not a real option. I think it is clear that this cabinet is not in favour of bringing the AOW age back to 65. I myself indicated this in response to Mr Gijs van Dijk. So the subject has indeed been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u154	This is your sixth interruption, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u155	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I can count, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u156	Well, I'm just warning you, because also Mrs. Van Brenk...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u157	Yes, of course. It's very concrete. I asked for a response from last week's planning agency. It is very remarkable that in the answer of three pages the word AOW is mentioned once. I specifically asked what you thought of Mrs Van Geest's suggestions to slow down the acceleration and possibly to separate life expectancy from the AOW age. Both questions are not answered in the letter. I would now like a clear answer from the Minister to those two views on which I asked for a letter in the course of my work and for which I have not received an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u158	The government policy and also the government agreement are clear on this point. The coalition agreement is based on a link between the AOW age and the increase in life expectancy. Recently I sent a letter to the Chamber about 2023, because life expectancy in 2023 is indeed lagging behind previous expectations. That letter states that the AOW age will not be further linked in 2023. But for the rest, it is linked in the government agreement and all financial transfers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u159	So you're not going to comment on Mrs. Van Geest's suggestions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u160	No, I do not go into the suggestions made by Mrs Van Geest, but I do deal with those made by Mr Van Dijk yesterday. I believe that we really need to have a serious discussion on how employers, workers and the public authorities are working together to ensure that people reach their retirement age in a healthy way. I would like to stress that the longer-term system is not financially viable and not sustainable if we let go of that link. This applies both to the AOW system and to the supplementary pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u161	So you are not going to think about slowing down the acceleration that might be linked to the pension system? I want a clasp-and-ready answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u162	No, this cabinet has no plans for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u163	That was your eighth question, Mr. Van Rooijen. So 50PLUS has two more questions. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u164	The Minister calls lowering or freezing the AOW age untenable and unfeasible. I believe that the further increase in the AOW age is unfeasible and therefore unsustainable. We see the influx into the WIA, the disability insurance. I'm talking to a lot of people who simply can't work. A 63-year-old painter with a worn back, for example, cannot possibly carry out his work. In addition, people with heavy occupations often started working earlier and now work longer in practice. I believe that the Minister is on the wrong track and shows the reality that this age should not only be frozen, but even reduced. Does the Minister agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u165	I do not agree with Mr Van Kent. That's okay. That's okay. That's okay. A number of answers to the written questions raised in connection with the budget have also been given on the financial implications. I have recently sent answers to your Chamber in response to questions from Mrs Van Brenk about the WIA influx. If you look at the participation of older people in the Netherlands, there is positive news. I think it is important to stress that participation is increasing like a madman. Yes, I see at the same time that there is a higher influx into the WIA, namely 1.25% influx of people between the ages of 61 and 65. I have put this in Mrs Van Brenn's answers. My appeal to the social partners and also to Mr Gijs van Dijk is: how do we ensure that we find a solution in collective agreements at sectoral level so that people are healthy enough to reach retirement age? The other answers include the financial consequence of not linking. That's a lot of money: 13.5 billion euros, 1.8% GDP feasibility. This is unrelated to the effects it has on the pension system. Because of the AOW increase and the link to life expectancy, the pension system has, of course, also become more sustainable. If you let go of that, the insurance council of pension funds would also go down and should be reduced further. So, no, I don't think it's a sensible or real solution to bring the AOW back to 65.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u166	As a member of parliament, the minister was one of the first to suggest that age should go directly to 67. We know D66 as the party that wants people to work endlessly, up to 71.5 and then you can continue working even longer if you would like to record the AOW later. But people simply don't make it and flow into the WIA. The Minister also acknowledges that there is an increase there. What does the cabinet do next? This is restricting entry to the WIA through the inspection requirements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u167	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u168	Are you trying to mask in this way that people who simply cannot work through become disabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u169	Three answers. Firstly, participation among over 60 people has increased significantly in recent years. Mrs Van Brenk's answers say that the number of 60-plus workers has increased from 850,000 to 1.2 million. I'm saying this out of my head. The influx into the WIA is indeed higher. It went 5,000 to 7,500 cases. That influx is too high. I agree with Mr Van Kent immediately. But if you look at the larger movement, at the increase in participation, including among the group of older workers, that's positive news. Sorry, I forgot Mr Van Kent's question. What was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u170	Mr. Van Kent, you may repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u171	I was talking about tightening the entry requirement for the WIA, to mask the fact that people simply cannot continue to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u172	That's a really wrong idea. By ensuring that people can work longer and reach a healthy retirement age, we also ensure that our collective provision, care, education, will remain affordable in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u173	First of all, this minister, D66, increases the age of AOW endlessly. People become disabled because they simply cannot continue to work. What's D66's answer to that? We are going to tighten the eligibility requirements for disability insurance. That's the world upside down, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u174	We have had a discussion in the Dutch Parliament for about ten years on how to ensure that our pension system, our AOW system, is sustainable in the future. How do we make sure this is affordable? At the same time, how do we ensure that there is sufficient money left for important public services such as education, health care, infrastructure and defence? Not only this cabinet but also the Cabinets for this have already had this discussion about the AOW age. So even the Rutte I cabinet and the Balkenende IV cabinet, with Agnes Jongerius. I think it is wise that in 2013 it was decided to increase the AOW age by three months per year until 2021. In Rutte II there was, one detail, another acceleration. From 2022 onwards, it is linked to the increase in life expectancy. I think this is a sensible decision, given the long-term sustainability of our public finances, but also the fact that we are getting older, not all on average, in the Netherlands. This decision was actually taken two Cabinets ago. That's what this cabinet's behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u175	Politics is making choices. The same applies to the AOW age. My question is very clear: why do you choose to spend money on development aid and do not choose to use that money to put the AOW age back to 65, when you see that a lot of people are going sick towards the AOW age and do not attract that antisocial AOW age increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u176	I'm gonna go give you a technical answer. I can also have this discussion philosophically and politically. The written answers to the questions on this budget indicate what it would cost to freeze the AOW at 65, as Mr De Jong wants. That is 1.8% of GDP, i.e. structuralally 13 to 14 billion euros. In the Netherlands, we do not spend EUR 14 billion on development cooperation. It's a lot less than that. It's, I say, out of my head, 4.2 billion. In other words, if Mr De Jong really wants to do so, he will have to make other cuts to finance this, or cut costs, or cut health care, for example. The cabinet doesn't choose that. We also want to invest in education, health care and defence. That is why we need to take measures of this kind to ensure that finances are sustainable in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u177	We shouldn't make a political game out of it. The Minister may laugh now, but he can simply use the development aid budget, the money spent on it, to put the AOW age back to 65. That is about 4 billion a year. You come at 12 billion a year, but that's not true. It's 4 billion. You'll have to stick to the numbers, Minister. So my question remains: why does this minister choose to spend money on development aid? Why does he choose to spend the money on asylum and development aid to Africa instead of to our own people, the Dutch, by putting the AOW age back to 65?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u178	Two answers. The first, factual answer is that freezing the AOW age at 65 according to the Central Planning Bureau costs 1.8% of GDP. With a GDP of 750 billion, this is about 13.5 billion euros, not 4 billion euros. That's one. Mr De Jong refers only to AOW expenditure, but I am also talking about tax revenues because more people work longer. It also has all kinds of consequences for pensions. Mr. De Jong has to tell the whole story and not focus on one part. My second point concerns something which surprises me in Mr De Jong's speech. For example, through development cooperation, this cabinet also focuses on reception in its own region, by addressing the root causes of migration. If you cut the budget for development cooperation, you can't do that. I think this is very unwise, also in the light of Mr De Jong's agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you for the Minister's reply and the commitment on the scenarios. Indeed, there has been talk of the AOW age for a very long time, especially about care or bringing people to a healthy end. In the Chamber, too, there is always a wide range of policy measures, regardless of the increase...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u180	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u181	Is the Minister really prepared to take a good look at that? There were all kinds of measures in place to make people work a little less and to be able to achieve a healthy end. To that end, I really call on the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u182	Very much so. I also welcome Mr Gijs van Dijk's attitude. When it comes to part-time pensions, the generation pact and how we can provide tailor-made work at sector level, I very much agree with that. I see the problem, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u183	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u184	I come to block three: integration and integration. The change goes beyond the labour market and our pension system alone. The Netherlands is changing for everyone. It's important that no one stays behind. I don't believe in the creative society, but in an honest one. A society in which everyone participates. You have to have a chance at the same time and do your best. This applies to young and old, to employers and to employees, to newcomers and to old-timers. And yes, there's work to be done for that. The integration and integration of newcomers is not going well. Too many people at home are out of work. They do not know the language sufficiently and therefore have little chance in our society to participate. The system of citizens must be put on the shovel, the cabinet believes. From the first day, everything must be focused on participating, with small-scale care, language lessons starting from day one and getting to work as quickly as possible. The economy is currently offering opportunities for this. Employers are looking hard for people, so this is the time to give newcomers that chance. If that does not happen now, I dare even say that it will be much more difficult in the future. Ah, we have a new chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mr. Chairman. One is connected to the other. Joining in is the key to working our society, for successful integration and for reducing gaps. Only in a country where we live well together can anyone really participate. The cabinet is committed to greater tolerance and commitment in society. Locking people out isn't one of them. That is precisely why I do not agree with Mr De Graaf's suggestion of closing the borders for Muslims. Fortunately, we know freedom of religion in the Netherlands. Everyone in the Netherlands is equal before the law, regardless of faith. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me when there would be a plan of action for the new integration system. Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan also asked. As I promised during the AO of 13 December, a detailed plan will be drawn up for the summer. The focus of integration will be more focused on work. A practical approach to the labour market is a good suggestion by Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan. During the AO, Ms Becker asked for attention to focus ONA, Orientation on the Dutch Labour Market, more on real participation rather than theoretical. I am certainly prepared to sit down with employers and municipalities to investigate this. Mr De Graaf asked me about the development of multicultural society. Diversity affects the Netherlands. We shouldn't beat around the bush. The government also stands for a recognizable Netherlands. Yesterday Mr Heerma made a nice speech about the Dutch dream, which I recognize from the formation table. In line with that, it is important that we also promote a recognizable Netherlands. This is indeed about history, about language, about the flag, about our Constitution, about our democratic legal order, about the values we share. I think it is extremely important for that line to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u186	I welcome the Minister's commitment to the practical orientation of the labour market. Work from day one is incredibly important and we really have to make haste about that. So thank you for that. The Minister did not comment on the other things we agreed on in the coalition agreement, for example the consequences in the case of culpable non-institution. Could you perhaps pay some attention to that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u187	I can say two things about that which are important to stress. On 13 December we had an AO in which we addressed this issue. It's actually something that's still running. At the end of January, we're going to finish that AO in the second term. So I'd like to come back to that. For now, I can say the following. We are going to create a system that is both unnerving and activating. The Secretary of State for Social Affairs is also involved when it comes to maintaining, for example, the language requirement and maintaining existing agreements on compensation. That is also part of the new integration system. The government agreement even states that non-binding agreements must be made with municipalities, for which the Secretary of State and I stand together. Another point concerns the commitment I just made to Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan on labour market orientation. I reported in the AO that I do have a major problem with the exams in relation to the ONA, the orientation on the Dutch labour market. In January I will come up with a letter to find an out-of-the-box solution for the upcoming waiting lists. At the moment, it takes up to 15 weeks until people can take integration exams, which, of course, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u188	Once upon a time. It is indeed a priority, but I think it can run parallel. Do I hear correctly that you are now undertaking that you will incorporate into that plan those other points that I have just mentioned and that we will be able to see that before the summer of next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u189	Yes, for the summer of next year and then it indeed consists of the complex of language lessons, of directing integration into municipalities but with national responsibility for the tests and examinations, of care so that people quickly have time to learn the language and become active in the labour market and out of activation when it comes to the Participation Act, the language requirement and the non-binding agreements with municipalities. The whole thing will come your way before the summer. That is an ambitious goal, but the VVD likes pace and so do I.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u190	Turbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u191	Get the turbo on! What I also think is important in terms of integration to emphasise and with which I also started in my response to Mr Heerma and Mr Özdil on the Dutch dream, is that it is important that we do not come across each other. Mr Heerma put that very nicely, namely that there sometimes exists the image of: they do not want us and we are not welcome here. It is precisely this contradiction that we must avoid, where there is a major problem in integration. There is a lot going in the right direction, a lot of it, with education, qualifications, participation in society and recognition of the democratic rule of law, but there is really a big problem in terms of employment participation. There are several reasons for this problem. Mr Kuzu asked for this yesterday to which I replied in writing. As has been said, there is a big problem there, and we must also do everything we can to give people a fair chance of getting a job in this society and thus also to combat polarisation, to close gaps rather than to strengthen differences. That is a root, and that is a stick, I also say towards Mr Heerma. I'm going to repeat that to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Suddenly another chairman, I see now. Welcome! The Minister talks about the Dutch dream, as did Mr Heerma yesterday, but there are also movements in the Netherlands, which I mentioned quite widely yesterday, which have a completely different dream in the Netherlands. They have a Turkish dream; look at DENK. They have a Moroccan dream; look at the developments that are taking place. But there are a lot of people in the Netherlands who have an Islamic dream. The Minister just spoke about the recognition of the Netherlands that we need to maintain. I see the new coalition agreement as a way of looking away from Islamization, because it is no longer mentioned. Not even integration can be found on the website of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, which was still the case under the minister's predecessor. My question to the Minister is as follows. Can he not mention five aspects of Islam in which Islam enriched the Netherlands, enriched our democracy and our rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u193	I'm not going to answer this question. When it comes to recognizability, when it comes to integration, to integration, the coalition agreement is crystal clear. What are we going to do in the coming years to ensure that people, newcomers from outside, indeed learn the language, participate in society and also have a fair chance? There should also be something about this, namely the willingness to become a citizen. Mr Heerma asked about this yesterday. The willingness to participate in the Dutch rule of law, the democratic legal order. That's a balance. That is what I want to do, with that discussion, and not, let me say, to have a polarisation debate on which group is lagging behind. What are we really going to do to ensure that people are given the opportunity to integrate and are also held responsible for integration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u194	In that case, the Minister's task is, in fact, not to ask for an answer to needs that are at stake in society. That's the Islamization I talked about yesterday. So countering polarization is indeed that look away. Then we all walk a polonaise and then we just don't talk about a number of topics in the Netherlands. That's how the entire coalition agreement works. Yesterday I gave an extensive, let me put it nicely, exhibition on the multicultural hell in which more and more people end up in the Netherlands. The Minister simply refuses to name what's going on, he refuses to answer. I have asked: give us five examples of Islam that have enriched the Netherlands, our democracy, our rule of law. Let me make it easier. Name three.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u195	Mr. Chairman. So I'm not gonna be in this game five, three, two, one. I would like to highlight the policy of the cabinet when it comes to the important issue of integration and integration. That there is a lot of social tension on this, I also saw last week in general consultation with your committee on this issue. My challenge is to take real steps in the right direction when it comes to integration, when it comes to giving people a fair chance and when it comes to appealing to people on their own responsibility. All kinds of games about the top five, the top three, if you don't mind, I'll skip it. I would like to address policy, not questions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr President, we had five more questions, so this is going to be the third one, the last one for me in this block. So I have to conclude on this point that looking away is indeed the norm. Then I have one last question. I've asked questions about the Muslim Brotherhood. In the written reply, the Minister said: I am not going to put them on the terrorist list. But that's not what I asked. I asked: is the Minister prepared to investigate the interests, the members, the influences, the finances of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Netherlands? Because Minister Donner also said in 2011: there are a lot of influences in the Netherlands, but we don't have a good map of them. But in the meantime, so many reports have come out that strict islamic, salafistic tendencies that many people, many parties in the Chamber are concerned about, have mastered the Netherlands. Then it is good to investigate this strong power of the Ikhwan, of the Muslim Brotherhood, worldwide, also in the Netherlands? I would like the Minister to be more indulgent in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u197	Mr. Chairman. If you will allow it, I will come back to the second point in the second term. I have indeed asked for a written set of answers to questions that I thought had been asked by Mr De Graaf. But apparently I misunderstood the question, so I will come back to it in the second term. On the first point, looking away from the norm, I understand rhetorically what Mr De Graaf is doing. It must have worked in the last few years. I think that when you look at the coalition agreement, when you read the coalition agreement, on the very subject of integration and integration, there really is a big step forward to reach out to each other, to close gaps, to appeal to people for their responsibility and at the same time to offer a real opportunity. Mr. De Graaf reduces it to a game top five. I want to stop doing that. I just want to have the debate on policy. How do we make things better, how do we talk to people, and not catch a game of flies? I hope that Mr De Graaf will join me in the coming time, because we have had a number of nice discussions about the European Union and Europe, and we want to have that debate in substance. I'm moving on to block four, education and skills. I have talked about the pension system before, but education is very much needed in order to be able to continue until retirement age. A fit labour market means that people must remain physically and mentally fit. That's what you do by continuing to learn and staying healthy. In a changing labour market, it is wise for workers to regularly reflect on their own development and the future of their profession. This prevents you from catching up, for example in the field of education. That also makes finding new work really more difficult; we see that in practice. The development advice, recently made available, can help workers to reflect on the direction of their own careers in good time, to follow a retraining or retraining course and indeed to remain fit in the labour market. The personal career advice gives workers an idea of their situation on the labour market and what steps they can take to achieve a healthy and working retirement age. A number of questions have been asked on this particular point and an amendment has been tabled. I shall return to the amendment at the end of my speech. Mr Wiersma has asked two questions about individual learning accounts. The learning accounts are already in place right now. Collective agreements deal with individual training budgets or individual drawing rights on collective budgets. The latter is a different form but has the same purpose. It is important that the use of public funds should be linked to these things to ensure that we really boost that education. An ambitious passage has indeed been included in the coalition agreement. I have just said that I, together with the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, will come forward with a letter for the summer to further develop this aspect. We need to be aware of the feasibility and effectiveness of this development, but we must also, and this is a real challenge, reach those groups that are not currently achieved by training. These include older people, low-skilled people and people employed by an SME. We know from the figures that there is a real backlog there when it comes to training. The individual learning account is part of a broader set of agreements made by the government with social partners and the educational field to achieve a shared approach in the field of lifelong learning and to bring a step closer to the breakthrough mentioned in the government agreement. The MBO Council has drawn attention to this, as has the HBO Council. The ESC has also called for attention to be paid to this issue. I will take Mr Wiersma's suggestion with regard to the experiments, the personal learning account and the link with the transition fee. Of course, in the coalition agreement a link has been established between the transition fee and education, but these experiments are an interesting exploration of a further explanation of this. Mr Heerma also asked if I was prepared to discuss this with the social partners as a follow-up. This is, of course, an extension of each other: retraining, retraining, fit ageing and the right job at the right age. I say to Mr Gijs van Dijk that part-time pensions can also be part of this. As you can see, there is a great interface here in this whole discussion. How do we achieve a healthy retirement age? This can be done through training, part-time pension or the search for another job or job, within or outside your own employer. It is a very interesting area where we will have to do a lot of work in the coming period. It is a subject in which the social partners themselves are involved. I like to talk to social partners, where I like to develop and develop plans to take a step forward, but it has to be done in consultation by sector and sometimes by company. In particular, I would like to stress that this is only one of the instruments to address the issue of sustainable employability. The broad agenda is all the more necessary to keep people fit for the labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u198	Thank you for the commitment to also look at the possibilities of experimenting. I assume the Minister will take this into account in the letter he will draw up with his colleague from OCW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u199	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u200	Thank you also for examining the link with the transition fee. We have, of course, been discussing this issue for a very long time, so I ask the Minister if he can see room to do it a little faster than just before the summer, because then we will only talk about it after the summer. It would help if we did that faster. The Minister is, of course, dependent on many sectors, but it is not as if this subject is entirely new. My suggestion would be to do it a little faster. I also asked whether incentives in working conditions could be considered to promote a permanent learning culture. My question is therefore whether the Minister will undertake to include this in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u201	Can we go faster? I'm gonna do my best. Indeed, there are a lot of opinions in this area, from the Sap Commission recently, which can do a lot with it. I don't see the incentives in the terms of employment one-two-three directly. I would ask for a clarification from Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u202	It is also about talking to social partners or learning that pays off, that is to say, that there is also encouragement in collective agreements to develop you and that that is also the link with the learning account, so that we have not just made a very nice system from the government right away, but there is really no room in the working conditions to fill it in. So that has to be connected. My question is how this is going to be linked and whether the Minister can take that into account in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u203	Exactly, then I understand very well. Yeah, it's connected. That is why I also referred to sectoral business agreements between employers and employees. It is, of course, part of working conditions, of the pay area, and so it is part of that. Agreed. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving to block 5: labor and care. I think it is important for men and women to have equal opportunities in the labour market. Unfortunately, that is not yet the case. Pregnancy discrimination is still a fact. The position of women in the labour market can be strengthened in several ways. The partner leave, which was chosen in the coalition agreement, is one of them. This may sound like a paradox, but it is precisely by correcting the balance on leave that you are also strengthening the balance on the labour market between men and women. Spend time with your kids should be the most ordinary thing in the world, for men and for women. In reply to Mr Gijs van Dijk, I expect to be able to offer partner leave to the Chamber before the summer recess. It's also in track 3, along with tight and flex.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u204	I also had a question in my contribution last night aboutzzp and partner leave. I've seen the written answers. Is the Minister willing to do a reconnaissance on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u205	To be honest, I find this complicated. I referred to this in my written answers, indeed. The system we are now building is based on payment by the employer during the first five days, and then five weeks 70% of the maximum daily wage, funded. Sincezzp'ers do not pay a premium, they are not part of that structure. In the design there is therefore no room for that. Moreover, of course,zzp'ers have other tools to buy leave. So the honest answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u206	Thank you for the honest answer. Nor was it my intention to have it financed from the employees' side, but above all to look at what is possible forzzp'ers to organise it, perhaps fiscally attractive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u207	This is where I'm not sure. Part of the reasoning is thatzzp'ers have a self-employed deduction because of the financial space to make insurance, private contracts for things like work and care, disability and pensions. By mixing that again, it will be a pile-up of fiscal instruments. What I do find interesting is that, in line with Mr Özdil's call for disability insurance and pensions, where the government agreement talks about more opportunities for building up pensions, for example, as a social security funder, to look in that direction. If that is a movement that Mr Gijs van Dijk is satisfied with, I am happy to say it. Mr. Chairman. The last block: purchasing power. A lot of questions have been asked about that too. The Dutch are going to feel the progress in the economy in this cabinet period really in their pockets, because the burden is greatly reduced by the cabinet. In general, purchasing power will increase by 1.1% a year in the coming years. That's a year, so it's four years. In the last ten years there have been only three years in total with better purchasing power development. That is a real boost to people's purchasing power. Various measures are being taken to this end, including for vulnerable groups for which purchasing power appeared to decline, such as benefit recipients and pensioners. Mr Van Rooijen has explicitly drawn attention to this. We've increased the care allowance. The child-related budget and the elderly discount are increased. For example, workers, benefit recipients and pensioners benefit from the economic recovery. In addition to the measures taken for 2018 to repair purchasing power, the Cabinet will, on balance, release 5.2 billion euros for burden relief, building up to 2021. The first 2 billion relief will come in 2019. It builds up to 5.2 billion in 2021. This mainly benefits the introduction of the two-wheel system with lower tax rates and higher tax rebates and labour rebates. My first letter as Minister of Social Affairs to your Parliament was dated 28 October, I believe. It gives an extensive purchasing power picture for all four years of this cabinet period. There is also a frequency table showing the spread and what is below. It is an extensive letter of thirteen or fourteen pages which deals in detail with the whole purchasing power picture. I can tell Mr De Jong that this is precisely what the middle class is benefiting from, because a large part of this 5.2 billion burden relief will end up in this two-disc system and thus in the middle groups. This is also apparent from the passing on of the government agreement by the Central Planning Bureau: the biggest increase in purchasing power is among the two income groups that are fashionable and above-mode. The real middle groups, the nurse, the teacher and the cop, have the biggest increase in purchasing power. At the same time it is balanced for the bottom and the top.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u208	Is it not true that these purchasing power figures depend on the development of wages?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u209	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u210	Then my question is how the Minister can claim that success of those purchasing power crumbs. Now wages are not rising at all as we expected. So these purchasing power cards look very different than expected. Would the Minister not want to give a calculation of people's purchasing power development on the basis of the way in which wages really develop? Employers themselves say that they do not have room for wage developments above 3%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u211	The purchasing power development in all amounts of the Central Planning Bureau in the passing-through of the government agreement is a sum of all measures. Indeed, Mr De Jong is right to add up contract wage developments, occasional wage developments, but also burden measures: increases and reductions in charges. They are reflected in the purchasing power picture of all these different groups of households. In my letter of 28 October, I showed that 95% of the Netherlands is improving on the measures taken by the cabinet and on economic development, which I give immediately to Mr De Jong. Indeed, this is partly due to the picking-up in the business cycle and the improvement in the labour market, to the fact that more people are in employment and that contract wage increases are expected to increase in the coming years. That's part of those purchasing power cards. Two or three days ago De Nederlandsche Bank came forward with an account of the economic expectations for 2018 and 2019. It shows that wage increases are going to increase, fortunately, also because the labour market is getting tighter and tighter. This morning we received new figures from the CBS on unemployment. It shows that unemployment is lower and that labour market shortages are increasing. In some sectors, employers are already jumping to hire people. This has consequences for wage developments. All these developments are in those purchasing power cards. To make the picture complete: in 2018 we see a few developments that work in different directions. In 2018, the contract wage increase is lower than previously expected. At the same time, inflation and the rise in care contributions are also slightly lower than previously expected. On balance, therefore, there are three developments that are different from what we had expected before, but which, on balance, result in the purchasing power picture being about the same as we expected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u212	When it comes to wages: a tour of the employers indicates that they cannot raise wages by more than 3%, which this cabinet assumed when the government agreement was presented. That is also reflected in the purchasing power picture. Moreover, the Minister has nothing to say about wages, because it is the employers who are responsible for this. If it's not all gonna happen, which it looks like, then people are gonna get in the way. We can already tell by the current purchasing power figures: if you are a working single person with children, then you go into the minus and you don't have anything left. Plus, what about the increase in the energy bill? In other words, people are made to enjoy purchasing power increases. Previously, they were going to get one percent, but it turned out to be 0.6%, which we have to wait for. They get made every time they're having a hard time. So my question to the Minister is: give those people clarity and be honest when it turns out to be. Because if you listen to the employers, the contract wages don't go up. That's when the people go to shit. Come on, admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u213	Mr. Chairman. I have just indicated in my comprehensive reply what is in the purchasing power figures. It is true that there is an increase in contract wages and inflation. There are also taxes, including the energy tax for households and the VAT increase. There are also reductions in the burden: the two-wheel system and the increase in the labour cut. The total of these measures gives the purchasing power picture. Last Wednesday, so yesterday, I sent my paycheck letter to the Chamber, in which the median purchasing power trend is indeed positive. There are indeed groups that are getting in the way. Also in my purchasing power letter of 28 October you can see that 95% of Dutch people are improving in the coming years, but that still stands at 5%. This has to do with a number of factors, such as the non-indexation of pensions, which Mr Van Rooijen asked for yesterday. But Mr De Jong is not right when he says that we are presenting part of the truth. The purchasing power figures are an integral overall picture of all the measures and economic developments, which are independently estimated by the Central Planning Office, on which we as a cabinet base. Again, 95% of the Netherlands are improving in the coming years, partly because of the economic situation and partly because of measures taken by the government. Yesterday Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Özdil, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Van Rooijen asked Mr Van Rooijen to push further wage developments. The increase in wages is limited, or can only be indirectly influenced by government policy. Because the increase in contract wages in the market sector is determined by the social partners in collective agreements. Wage policy therefore requires customization. That is up to the decentralised collective bargaining parties. The situation varies from sector to sector. In one sector there is much room for higher wages, in the other there is simply no room for this, because of competition, competition with foreign companies or falling demand, so there is simply less demand for certain products. Whether employers can pay higher wages to their employees depends on the profitability and financial and economic prospects of the companies. What is, of course, striking is that a number of economists, including Klaas Knot, and also the Central Planning Bureau, have called attention to the falling labour income ratio, so the share in the economy goes to wages and not to capital, I shall say. That is why Mr Knot's appeal, as well as Mr Rutte's appeal, is an appeal to the social partners to take up their responsibilities and make appropriate use of the available wage space at sectoral level. As Minister of Social Affairs, I wholeheartedly support that appeal. What I said to Mr De Jong: DNB and the Central Planning Bureau came up with new figures this week. Indeed, it shows that the increase in contract wages is something that attracts attention, also as a result of a tighter labour market. In the coming years, I expect this wage increase to continue, precisely because the labour market is getting tighter. DNB expects unemployment to fall below 3.5% in 2019 and thus have an upward pressure on contract wage increases. Finally, I would like to comment on a number of amendments in my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u214	But before you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u215	Can I first make the amendments and then answer the remaining questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u216	Yeah, I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u217	Six amendments have now been tabled. Two of them I'm gonna address. The other four will do the Secretary of State in a moment. First of all, the amendment on item No. 10 on the 2% increase in the AOW benefit. The AOW is linked to the development of wages. In addition, every year we look at the situation of purchasing power, including the purchasing power of older people, and possible measures are being taken. I therefore do not think that an increase in the AOW is necessary at the moment. It is not covered either, and that is why I would advise against this amendment. The amendment in part No. 15 of D66, CDA, VVD and the Christian Union are concerned with training pathways for people with a vulnerable position in the labour market. By training you catch two birds with one stone. Vulnerable unemployed people can get to work through proper training in so-called cramped occupations. This requires a targeted approach. Training is closely in line with the objective of the sector plans. The original budget of the sector plans is used for this purpose. That is why I leave the opinion on this proposal to the Chamber. This brings me to the end of my first term, but I'm sure there are still questions that have remained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u219	I have another question about the head of labor and care. First of all, on behalf of GroenLinks, I would like to stress once again that we are very pleased with the proposal to extend partner leave, but that aside. I have another question about the compensation scheme for pregnantzzp'ers. GroenLinks really thinks that the three-month registration period is far too short. I understand very well that the Minister says it would be better if the payment were made in 2018. My question is: why is the scheme not published earlier in the Official Journal, for example already on 1 January 2018? Let me now turn to the question of information. It is very good that the Minister says: we are going to use the usual means such as websites and social media. Why not send a letter to the home address of the 20,000 women who are potentially entitled to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u220	If it's all right with you, I'll come back to this in the second term. This question is in the written set; I know that. But I do not know the example in that detail, so I shall come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u221	I'd like to talk about the importance of higher wages. If I have just understood the Minister correctly, he says: I endorse the Prime Minister's call. I heard a lot of colleagues in the Chamber talk about this yesterday. But of course there is one difference, namely that this minister is currently also talking to social partners and seeing them regularly. I asked him to repeat this call in those talks, especially towards employers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u222	I've already done that, including for a camera. I will repeat this in my discussions with the social partners, but, of course, it remains primarily a responsibility of employers and employees, including at sector and company level. That's what I just said. In the coalition agreement, it is not for nothing very clear that the cabinet considers it wise to use the wage room if there is room for it. So I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u223	That's very nice. And yes, it can vary by sector or company, but there's just a lot of space. In the past, politics has often said: it is now time for wage moderation. Then I think it is very good that we should also say with strength: now is the time for wage increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u224	Thank you. Before we continue...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u225	...the Secretary of State, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u226	I can still see the minister looking peezy, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u227	I haven't been asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u228	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u229	I was just processing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u230	Before we continue with the Secretary of State, I'm suspending for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u231	The floor is for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of this Chamber very much for their input. I have already replied to some of the questions in writing. I will respond to other questions later. Like the Minister, I will do so in thematic blocks on the basis of my three policy priorities. These are job opportunities, debt and poverty management, and enforcement and the fight against fraud. But before I do that, I would like to outline briefly how I look at employment and social security. Most people can do it themselves, on their own. That's what people show, every day, everywhere in the Netherlands. Even when things are bad, people often get back on their feet. But sometimes it doesn't work out. Anyone can face major setbacks, such as unemployment, disability or debts. Then it is good that there is a government that provides support, looking carefully at individual circumstances, because every situation is different. So what people need is also very different: support in the back, a good conversation, a temporary benefit, but sometimes a firm hand or a strict conversation if they have to. Unfortunately, it is not always possible to prevent people from losing their jobs or losing their jobs for any other reason. Then it is extremely important that their perspective on work does not disappear beyond the horizon. We must ensure that people who are side by side get back to work as much and as soon as possible. Machines are written off, but people aren't. It is also important to realise that jobs arise mainly in companies. There are opportunities for the unemployed to get back to work, and there are opportunities for people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups, with public support where necessary. Many employers want to take their social responsibility and give these people a place, but they should be able to do so without bureaucratic concerns. Taking care of businesses offers a real perspective on work. Mr. Chairman. Work is also a powerful weapon against debt and poverty. But it is not a panacea, because everyone can end up in a problematic debt situation: people with benefits, but also, for example, two-earners with very decent incomes. Here too, every situation is different. But in any case, debt has a disastrous effect on people. Rapid action and easy access to good debt relief are then extremely important. This will prevent worse and allow people to make a fresh start. It is not only important that we have a good social system that does justice to individual differences. We also want to maintain that system. That is why we need to realise that we are bringing these facilities together. Abuse of facilities should therefore be addressed. This is important for the financial sustainability of our social system, but it is also important for social support. If we agree on rules, we must ensure that they are respected. This applies to social services, but also to working conditions, the minimum legal wage or any other field. Mr. Chairman. Without proper enforcement and the fight against fraud, rules exist only on paper. Then they are toothless tigers, who give ample work to, for example, evasion of the minimum wage or abuse of benefits. This undermines faith in a fair playing field and undermines trust in government. All in all, we in the Netherlands have a beautiful social system that is well balanced, a system that exists for people and not the other way around. I'd like to keep that. Having said that, I would now like to address the three policy priorities and the questions raised by the Chamber. In terms of employment prospects, I would like to talk about pay dispensation, the Wajong and the reduction in Wajong, labour market discrimination and labour market regions. Mr. Chairman. As has already been said, work offers security of existence. It is the best remedy against poverty, debt and social exclusion. Work creates social contacts and opportunities for personal development. And work is positively related to health and happiness. But too many people are on the sidelines. We must ensure that they too have a perspective on employment. The momentum is there, now that the economy is going well again and jobs are being created in the Netherlands. Let me drop the door when it comes to this subject. There is a great deal of concern about the introduction of the pay dispensation, even here in the Chamber. Mr Raemakers of D66 spoke yesterday of 'the elephant in the Chamber'. Many questions have been asked on this subject, including by Mrs Voortman van GroenLinks, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Peters, Mr Bruins and Mr Kuzu. Let me be clear about one thing: we all agree on the principle that work should pay. I also understand people's concerns about this. That is also why, at the request of the Chamber, I outlined to the Chamber in the letter of 14 December the outline of the arrangements which I would like to work out with all the parties concerned. I have indicated in my letter that recently images about the intentions of the coalition agreement have emerged that are not correct. For example, there is a concern that people working with pay dispensation go back to welfare and that structural savings of 500 million are being made on people with disabilities. These images are not justified, because the measures aim to give an additional boost to the employment rate of people with disabilities and to remove obstacles to employment. I would like to develop the measures so that people with disabilities can have a perspective on work, depending on their possibilities, where work is also rewarding. I would also like to look at the position of non-contributorys, which Mr Jasper van Dijk explicitly asked for. Mr Jasper van Dijk also stated that the employment opportunities for disabled people are minimal. As he said in his speech, they are being deprived of assistance. That is also in the written answers. In my reaction, only the word "not" has disappeared. I would therefore like to make it quite clear here that I do not agree with that. I know that the written reply is part of the budget debate. That's why I'm so explicit about this. The introduction of the wage dispensation is not a matter of austerity, but of a different use of financial resources, since the budget for activation and services for people in a vulnerable position is being increased. This allows municipalities, for example, to organise more sheltered workplaces, to take care of employers and to provide tailor-made work that meets the needs of citizens. More people are gonna be working soon. Mr Bruins asked for concrete plans to realize the extra 20,000 sheltered workplaces. The funds will be available from 2019 onwards and will build up to the possibility of 20,000 sheltered workplaces that will be additional places in a structural situation around 2050. I think it is important to stress that the need is leading. The point is that, if there is a need for sheltered work, municipalities also realize these places. Customisation is essential. Municipalities are now getting on well and I would like to take with me the experience so far gained with sheltered work in the elaboration of the ambition in the coalition agreement. In the first quarter of 2018, I want to send you the impact of the salary dispensation. I will also take my first thoughts on the implementation of sheltered work, because these two measures are linked in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u233	I understand, of course, that the Secretary of State still has an impact to come up with, but one of the objections raised by my group, among other things, against pay dispensation is that people do not build up rights: no right to pension, no right to WW. Thus, you create a difference in rights between people with disabilities and people without disabilities. If the Secretary of State is concerned with drawing up a proposal that gives people a perspective on work and that makes work pay, is she prepared to look with the social partners and with client organisations at any other way? So you look at a system with which you achieve those goals, without being attached to that pay dispensation, because there is a difference in rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u234	I can indeed give the answers now. I have tried to make it a coherent story, because many questions have been asked about it and also because there are many elements in this discussion. I think I will answer this question in the course of my speech. After that, I will be very happy to pick up the discussion, which will certainly come about, but perhaps it would be good to mention all these elements. So may I ask Mrs Voortman to hold on to her question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u235	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u236	I would like to take another step back, because I have noticed that the Cabinet and the Secretary of State are really looking for support. That's what she exudes, and that's what the Cabinet exudes. We have received letters from the VNG, from various employers, from employees and from municipalities, all of which say: we do not want this at all. So where is the support for this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u237	A number of concerns have been expressed in the letters we have received. Those concerns also had to do with assumptions regarding the impact of wage dispensation. Now I have to be careful that I do not go into Mr Van Dijk's question anyway, while I actually want to tell the whole story first. But just so you know, it's a little specific. A number of concerns have been raised. At the same time, a call has been made for a pay dispensation, particularly from employers, a party that we would like to take care of, because jobs come from there. We can also see that with the instrument of wage dispensation, which is already being applied in the Wajong, we can help more people than we are today with wage subsidies. That is the choice made in the coalition agreement. It also says that work must pay. That is an important concern that we have heard from partners. I therefore felt that we should send a contour letter last week to at least remove the concern that people will be working under the assistance, but to say to partners: let's get the work done, because I have heard your concerns very well and I think we can take some of those concerns away from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u238	I think the only employer was the Malietor. VNO-NCW is in favour of this measure, but there are a lot of employers who are already saying that they do not want it. Should there really be no support, is the Secretary of State prepared to withdraw this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u239	I can very well imagine that an individual employer who now has someone working with labour costs subsidies is wondering why it should be different. At the same time, I also need to look at the whole country and the development we are facing. I see that, at the beginning of the development of instruments, we have employed some 17,000 people with a pay dispensation and also some with a wage subsidy. I am very pleased that employers and municipalities are working on this together. But we have the task of letting a multitude of these people work until 2050 and offering them a perspective on work. That is why we now want to choose the instrument where we can help as many people as possible to work in a way that pays off. That's why we're working on pay dispensation. That is why I do not intend to exchange that instrument in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u240	1.4 billion to foreign shareholders and 500 million less to people with disabilities: I find it shameless. Last week, the Secretary of State said: we are going to go back to the minimum wage; the government agreement states that people can work under the minimum wage. That is, of course, incomprehensible. The minimum wage is called minimum wage for a reason. What are you talking about? Are you going to guarantee us that minimum wage is just like a house? Or are you going under there and tearing down civilization?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u241	I'm gonna go check on the introduction anyway. There have been quite a few debates in the Chamber on dividend taxation. I am not going to add anything else, but let me say this about it. I am in favour of any measure that preserves jobs or creates jobs. I would very much like to look with your Chamber in this debate at ways of generating as many jobs as possible. Having said that, there is no question of a cut in the budget, since we are going to use the money generated by the pay dispensation in relation to the wage subsidy to get people with disabilities to work. That's what I want to say about that. In my letter I meant by "prices on" that is my commitment. But, as I said, I cannot implement this measure alone. I have to deal with social partners and municipalities. I have also warmly involved the client organisations in this. I will be happy to work out this measure with them. But you can read the "prices on" in such a way that I think it's important that people get paid the hours they work according to the minimum wage that stands for it. That is a decent basis and I want people to be able to build that base. We have a minimum wage in the Netherlands for a reason, as we also have AOW. People living and working in the Netherlands are building AOW. The same applies to people who are faced with pay dispensation. On all other matters, I would also like to engage with the partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u242	Why such a woolly answer? There's zero point zero support for this plan, isn't there? From all over the country we hear: do not do this; we are now doing a good job with the wage costs subsidy, so leave this alone, otherwise we will get first- and second-class workers. Now the Secretary of State says I'm heading for that minimum wage, but I want to consult with other people in the country. Secretary of State, you're the one who has to stand for the standard, for the standard. You're talking about minimum wage. You can now reassure everyone here by saying that the minimum wage stands like a house. You do not, and I find that very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u243	In the run-up to this debate, the great concern was that people would start working under the assistance. I therefore felt it necessary to clarify the letter last week, as far as I can now. That means I've indicated that I'm heading for minimum wage, and I see that people get the minimum wage for the number of hours they work. I realise that this creates new uncertainties, so I will have a discussion with partners to further develop this measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u244	I think it is very good that this Secretary of State consults with social partners and with client organisations. That's what I asked in the first installment. But I indicated that I also think the issue of equal rights is important, namely that people are building up pensions and WW. My question is whether this is going to be the starting point for consultation with these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u245	What I consider very important in terms of equal rights is the opportunity to get to work. Now I see that a very large proportion of people with disabilities are at home. I'd like everyone to have a chance to participate. That is where, as far as I am concerned, the implementation of these equal rights begins. We see that with pay dispensation for people it will also start to pay for work from a small number of hours. I think it is very important to have said that, because that is really my starting point. We make a political choice to bet on participating. For the stage at which I am now, I can at least indicate that I rate at minimum wage. I realise that there are still a lot of effects to this and that you are dealing with people with a certain productivity and who, after productivity, can indeed be dealt with with by emoluation schemes. But I have to work that out with partners. That is why at the moment I cannot give full clarity about this other than that I would like to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u246	I'm sorry, but that's not enough for me right now. Yeah, we need to have a conversation. But the UN Convention is clear: access to the labour market on the basis of equal rights. It is not just about access to the labour market, but also about the rights you have as an employee. It can't be that a worker without a limitation is by definition entitled to a pension and, of course, we are in favour of it and that someone with a disability wouldn't have it? You wouldn't be living up to the UN convention, would you? Equal rights, also on this point!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u247	I have already responded in writing to how we comply with the UN Convention. I think we have no difference of opinion on that. That is very important and how we are going to work it out is the starting point. In the first quarter of 2018, I would like to return to you with the elaboration of this measure. I will include this question in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u248	I'm committed to taking away a misunderstanding. I hear the Secretary of State say that there are no cuts on people with disabilities. Yes, 500 million is being cut on people with disabilities by paying them below the minimum wage or just at the minimum wage and not granting them pensions or social security rights. This is added to sheltered workplaces that are not currently required. So yes, the misunderstanding must be removed: 500 million people with disabilities are being cut in these times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u249	I would like to say that the existing employment relationships are being consolidated. At the moment, nothing changes people's rights in their current employment relationship. Changing the instrument is worth 500 million. That amount can be traced back to the 500 million it cost when the social agreement was transposed into the Participation Act and the instrument was introduced labour cost subsidy. It is important to point out that the money generated is used to help a wider target group to work. The government agreement provides for the possibility of sheltered work and services in municipalities. I think it is of the utmost importance to indicate that. I like to say that people get the minimum wage for the number of hours they work. That's what I wrote in my letter last week. That's the course I'm setting. I'd like to work that out with partners, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u250	I have received a written response to our request for consultation and a delta plan for the bottom. I'll say it in our words. We are now seeing displacement. As Mrs Voortman said, you have people who are covered by a collective agreement and people who are not covered by it; you have people who do get subsidies and people who do not get subsidies. At the bottom, that's starting to wring. You say that this is not necessary, because there are all kinds of different arrangements. I urge you to look at it more broadly when you talk to all those parties. We can now see that there are real bottlenecks. As far as we are concerned, everyone, as Mrs Voortman advocated, should build up a pension and simply be covered by a collective agreement. Everyone has the right to do so in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u251	In addition to the written reply, which I do not have very clear on this particular point, I would like to say that I would also like to join in Mr Heerma's speech yesterday, in which he pointed out that we have been making a major change for a number of years. The starting point is that you can get started, that you can participate and that you get a fair reward for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u252	I'm stuck with the word "prices." That's very vulnerable. For example, the PVV is heading for government participation, but we all know that this is never going to happen. Do you understand that this is a weak part of your speech? As long as you keep saying you're heading for the minimum wage, we're all insecure. You don't guarantee the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u253	I can imagine that questions still remain open. Last week I tried to provide as much clarity as I can at the moment about the concerns that people need to work under the assistance. I also understand that Mr Van Dijk says that I have been here for six weeks and that he wonders whether I could not have done that earlier. I'll do that as soon as I can. "Course on" means that I think it's important that people get the minimum wage for the hours they work. At the same time, I would also point out that I cannot decide this entirely on my own. I'll tell you where my harbor is in front of the ship I'm the pilot of. That's where I'm heading. I will work with other parties as soon as possible. For example, municipalities are also social partners. I hope to be able to give you full clarity in the first quarter of 2018. My commitment, which I think is important, is an honest wage for the number of hours people work, let us be clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u254	I keep asking if the Secretary of State is holding on to the minimum wage and she says: I am not going to be below the welfare level. It shouldn't get weirder. Anyway, let's talk about the support and the outstretched hand. The Secretary of State keeps saying that she needs to consult with people, with the VNG, with aldermen, with directors. If they all say 'we don't like this, let's continue with the wage bill', there can be a point that the Secretary of State says she doesn't have the support for it and doesn't do it like that. After all, this is also a yo-yo policy. What do you think of the alternatives already proposed by, for example, aldermen? They say, "Look at that low income advantage; look at those sheltered workplaces." You can trade in for this and then all the concerns of the people with disabilities have been removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u255	From the point of view of an individual employer who has people walking around with labour costs subsidies and thinks that this works fine for him, or from the perspective of the municipality that has been doing this for two years now and thinks that this works fine, I can very well imagine that the question is raised as to why things should be changed. At the same time, employers have asked to make it clear to them and to take care of them. I think that is a very clear call, because in the end employers must generate jobs. I think that's very important. We see pay dispensation in the Wajong. The Participation Act works with wage subsidies, but we see that we can get more people to work with pay dispensation. With the enormous task in numbers of people we want to serve in the coming years, it is only logical to have this discussion now and to work on the elaboration of the pay dispensation, which ensures that employers are taken care of and that it is rewarding for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u256	I think there's been a deal in the formation between the parties. One party said: I want more sheltered workplaces. The other party said it costs money. Then it was said: well, maybe then we can do pay dispensation; then we take it away from people and we stop at the sheltered workplaces. The reality is, however, that the social agreement states that 30,000 sheltered workplaces must be created. At the moment 1,100 people have a sheltered workplace. It's far from ready. So these 20,000 extra workplaces are not yet needed. Can the Secretary of State answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u257	Both the numbers for sheltered workplaces as well as the financial resources that the conversion of labour cost subsidies to wage dispensation should yield cover a period of up to 2050. So indeed, I say to Mrs Van Brenk on a detour, we are working on a long-term vision of the bottom of the labour market. We need to look at these issues in conjunction. That is what happened in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u258	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u259	Is there any support for those 20,000 extra workplaces? If you sit around the table with each other during the formation, I assume you say: that's really necessary, because that's what society is asking for. But where's the backup? Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, it's a bad formation deal and you should withdraw it immediately. I'd like to see that support, because otherwise we're gonna hurt a lot of people when we don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u260	The 20,000 to 2050, related to the number of people with a disability that we want at work, I didn't find a crazy number, but I can check it out and then I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u261	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u262	I also like factual arguments, I say to Mr Gijs van Dijk. I know your tight schedule today, so I'm gonna have to take a look at it to avoid doubles. Mr. Chairman. I have already said it in an interruption: the government agreement of the Cabinet means, above all, for people with disabilities, a targeted continuation of the policy pursued, which is moving towards an inclusive labour market. The most important thing is that as many people as possible can participate in the labour market. To this end, it is important to encourage employers to employ people with disabilities. Employers want clear rules. That increases the chance that they hire people who need extra attention. This is also the reason why employers have been in favour of the pay dispensation. I am happy to take Mr Bruins' suggestion to keep up with it when developing the pay dispensation, or pay dispensation will also make it easier for employers to hire someone if they have a restriction. In my letter I indicated that I would quote to work out the system in such a way that people who are going to work with a pay dispensation will receive a supplement that meets two basic principles. The income of these people must be higher than the social minimum applied to them. If people are going to work and if people are going to work more, I want them to really get better. Furthermore, I think it is important that their income goes to a minimum wage level in proportion to the number of hours they work. All this is appropriate within the financial framework of the coalition agreement. I have just had an interrupting debate with Mrs Voortman on the relationship between the intention of pay dispensation to the UN Convention. I think it is important to say that the introduction of pay dispensation is subject to the UN Convention. As has already been said, I will explain this in more detail when the wage dispensation is being worked out. In her speech, Mrs Voortman also mentioned the complexity. I think it is very important to look at the feasibility and effects for employers, as well as for workers working with pay dispensations, especially for the people involved. I am pursuing a careful process in which all those involved can contribute to the development of the measures. This will also cover the five concrete elements which Mr Peters of the CDA referred to as leading. First of all, I would like to discuss the impact with social partners, municipalities, client organisations and other stakeholders. As has also been said in the course of the interruption, I consider it important that employers should be relieved and that work should be paid. Then I'll get the discount on the Wajong. Several members of the Chamber have asked why the cabinet chooses not to reverse the 5% discount and whether the cabinet is prepared to do so. The measure has a long history, as Mr Heerma of the CDA reminded us yesterday. With the reduction in the benefit for Wajongers with working capacity, the cabinet brings the treatment of this group and those of young disabled people in the Participation Act more in line with each other. This measure was preceded by an intensive re-evaluation operation. That is why I would point out that the cabinet does not intend to reverse the reduction in Wajongers' pay with labour capacity. Mrs Voortman has asked me for a response to Wajangers' application letters. Let me say that I find it very positive and also very handsome of these Wajangers that they are working so actively to get to work and that I also see how difficult that can be. What I want to emphasise is that I am really doing everything I can to encourage and facilitate market and government employers to hire people with disabilities. For example, Wajangers under the old regime received an additional €95 million for support to work by the UWV. In addition, I intend to use some of the additional resources for services provided in the coalition agreement for Wajangers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u263	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u264	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u265	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u266	Yes, Mr President, and the last chance for the Secretary of State to show an outstretched hand, because this "wage discrimination" did not work. And now the Wajong discount, which was discussed extensively yesterday. This is a plan from your predecessors. So you won't lose any honor if you withdraw it now. In fact, for me, you will be the heroine of this debate. Discount is completely unnecessary, unfair and cowardly. And there is excellent coverage. Is there any talk with you about undoing this shameless discount on the Wajongers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u267	I can very well imagine that it feels unfair to be in this situation, but I also point out that we are in the process of a great development: people in the same situation are being put into the same starting position. The answer is not to reverse the discount, the answer is more jobs. And I would very much like to commit to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u268	No, Mr. Van Dijk, no more. Mrs. Voortman's turn is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u269	So people are put into the same starting position, but the tricky thing is of course that you also have to deal with a loss of legal certainty for people. The explanation given to us by the administration was very good. I had a specific question about someone who got into the ABWZ. I will not repeat this entirely. But the political question underneath is whether this is the intention. Is it intended that Wajangers in the Netherlands are the only groups in the Netherlands to lose their income directly? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u270	People who can work are supposed to be helped to get to work. That is the underlying idea of what we are doing here. That's also the reason for the job deal. That is also the reason why people who do not have work capacity can stay in this scheme and that people who do have the opportunity to go to work are brought into the circumstances that we would also like to help them get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u271	When it comes to helping people get to work, wouldn't it make sense not to implement the discount as the government has not complied with the job agreement and at least postpone this measure? Wouldn't that be logical and reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u272	I can really imagine this concern. At the same time, in total, more jobs have been created by all employers than was agreed, some 2,000 more. I'll take that into consideration, too. In the end, it is about saying that I would like to repeat that the solution to this is not a reversal of the discount, but that the solution to this issue is more jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u273	Then the Secretary of State actually says that it is up to him or herself if a Wajanger is not working now; you should have done your best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u274	No, I didn't say that, and certainly not after I've heard and read the stories of people who are trying very hard to get to work. I simply have a great deal of respect for that and that is also why I would like to encourage the government to show itself from the better side and to achieve the objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u275	I have a question about sheltered work for Wajongers. We informed them yesterday. In the written reply, the Secretary of State states that it sees no reason to change the carefully chosen framework for sheltered work. But if we look at the group in the Wajong, it's over 60,000 young people. Then it's about Wajongers from the old Wajong, so for 2010, and people who arrived in the Wajong between 2010 and 2015. That's over 60,000 young people. We really run the risk of becoming a second granite stock.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u276	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u277	So what possibilities does the Secretary of State see to make more sheltered work possible for that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u278	I will check, also to get back to it in the second term, but as far as I know there is a very specific inspection to be eligible for sheltered work. It is a very specific target group and we must deal with it carefully. I'll check this out for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u279	I understand that, but I also want to ask if the criteria cannot be changed. It's just been mentioned. 2,600 sheltered workplaces should be realized this year, we are at 1,100 to 1,300. If you look at this every month, 200 sheltered workplaces should be added every month. We're at just over 100 a month. Does the Secretary of State not agree with D66 that the criteria for sheltered work should be considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u280	The criteria are very carefully designed. It is always good to look at this, but what is particularly important is that municipalities also get to work to make the need lead. It is important that they are well looking for people who are eligible for sheltered work or that they, as people, indicate that they want to be eligible for sheltered work, give them that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u281	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr. Chairman. I come to work discrimination, because also labour discrimination often deprives people of the perspective of work. If people do not get opportunities because they are too old, have a disability or based on gender, that is a very big problem that concerns us all. The same applies to discrimination on grounds of origin. Labour discrimination is unacceptable and requires a firm approach. This problem is an important issue and the fight against labour discrimination is a responsibility of society as a whole, of government, employers, workers, social partners and civil society organisations. In the coming months, the coalition agreement will be drawn up and the Employment Discrimination Action Plan, which Mr Van Weyenberg, among others, asked for, will be followed up. This includes the fight against discrimination in application procedures and pregnancy, as well as a strong enforcement role of the inspection. I will inform you more about this before 1 June 2018. I come to the labour market regions, because I already mentioned in my introduction that jobs are created in companies. Employers call for clear and identifiable services in labour market regions. They want to be served from a single regional employer's point of contact. This cabinet wants employers to be cared for as much as possible. Concerned at their search for staff and questions about the labour market. That is why I want to work in the coming years to strengthen the coordinated employment services in the labour market regions. It is important to do this together. The primary responsibility for the functioning of the labour market regions lies with the parties that form them. With municipalities and their SW companies, the UWV, education, private intermediaries, employees and employers. I want to facilitate these parties and I want the question of employers to be put at the centre. Because by taking care of employers, more people can work, and that is the ambition of this cabinet. Ms Nijkerken-de Haan van de VVD asks for further development of the candidate scout job appointment. And Mr Raemakers of D66 has asked about the state of use of this. This subject calls for out-of-the-box thinking, as Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan did with her candidate app. Municipalities receive support from the flying brigade of the Program Council. Center municipalities in all 35 labour market regions received €88,500 as a stimulus from last year's amendment. The UWV offers municipalities to also read printed profiles and experiment with reading from municipal systems. That makes it easier for municipalities. And this support works. We see that municipalities are catching up this year. At the end of last year municipalities had registered 777 job appointments in the candidate scout, now there are 3.854. But I also note that it is a task for many municipalities to record data in different systems and different formats. In my letter of 5 December to your Chamber on the progress of employers' services, I indicated that I am exploring the possibility of improving this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u283	I actually want you to finish this part and then Mrs Nijkerken-de-Haan will have the floor. You were already done, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u284	I have, of course, been able to read part of this answer in the answer to the questions this morning. I must say, however, that the level of ambition does not yet sound very hopeful. So I would urge the Secretary of State to work on this really with parties, because I would be very sorry if my successor were to have the same questions here in five years' time, as I indicated in my speech yesterday. That may not be as bad for my successor as it is for all those jobseekers and employers, who still have not been helped. So the level of ambition really is a bit higher. I hope for an affirmative answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u285	I was so hoping to indicate by my intonation how important this subject is to me. But let me stress to Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan that my level of ambition is very high here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u286	Get the turbo on!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u287	As a follow-up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u288	I am very pleased that the Secretary of State wants to encourage and facilitate this. That is all very nice, but we also know that there are a lot of municipalities that are really hopelessly lagging behind with the number of candidates applying in that candidate scout. It is, of course, also an option that we say: simply make public which municipalities are really lagging behind. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give the Chamber an overview of the municipalities that are lagging behind?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u289	I think we are going to talk about this instrument. I especially like to see where things are going well. That is what is happening. There has recently been a meeting in which labour market regions have sat around each other and worked out best practices. I'd like to do that before we go to take-and-shaming. My view of that day was that putting the perspective of employers at the heart of the matter and letting municipalities tell each other how they did things led to a lot of new inspiration. I received the report from that meeting and I was very positive about it. So I'd like to take that step first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u290	Okay, let's go; we'll go along with that for now. In the letter we also read that it is about exploring the possibilities of exchanging digital matching data. I'd like to have a real pace. Could the Secretary of State agree that we can have this by March or April at the latest?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u291	For the record, we report to the Chamber once or twice a year on this subject. I'll check the time limit and let you know in my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u292	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u293	Mr. Chairman. I come to dealing with debt and poverty. Like the various Members of Parliament who spoke about this, I have seen how debts can get people over their heads, leading them into a downward spiral. That can happen to anyone, if people lose their jobs, but also because of health problems or divorce. Quite a few setbacks come at the same time. Then there's a pile of problems. I note, even during this debate, that your Chamber shares the concerns about debt issues. I understand that very well, because we are talking about a major problem that causes a great deal of human suffering and social costs. About one in ten households have problematic debts. An approximately equal group is at risk of getting problematic debts. The cabinet wants to reduce the number of people with problematic debt and help people with debt more effectively. The government agreement contains a package of measures to address debt. For example, we want to make programmatic agreements with municipalities to improve debt relief. Municipalities are given the space to experiment with innovative approaches and customization. The accumulation of fines and administrative premiums on late payments is limited. Possibilities for payment arrangements are being extended. The cabinet also wants to combat abuses in the collection sector more effectively, including by maintaining the maximum collection costs that may be charged and by setting up a collection register. We will fight excesses in lending and improve the legal settlement of debts. Together with municipalities, more financial assistance for debt is made possible through a nationwide network of voluntary projects. The minimum standard of living must be better secured for people in debt. The ongoing pathways, such as the implementation of the Simplification Act, are therefore fully pursued. As a creditor, the government has a particular responsibility to avoid unnecessary increases in debts. The government has to respect the unwound footage. Mr Raemakers of D66 asked for a clear timetable, indicating the measure taken in the coalition agreement when. Mr Bruins and Mr Peters also asked for an impact on debt, including time plan and concrete actions. In my letter of 18 December, I indicated that the elaboration of existing and new plans from the government agreement will land in a broad debt approach, which I will send to the Chamber in spring 2018. It will also indicate when the intermediate results of the various measures can be expected and will also be monitored during the next cabinet period. Mr Bruins also asked how I would involve the municipalities in the actions on the debt file. It is clear that dealing with debt requires broad cooperation between SZW and the other departments. There are a lot of organisations involved: Finance, JenV, VWS, BZK and EZK, but also large government organisations, the Tax Office, the Social Insurance Bank, the UWV, DUO, the Central Justice Collection Bureau, the CAK, private parties and therefore also municipalities. The latter are involved through the VNG. Apart from providing good and accessible debt relief and acting quickly when people are in debt, it is of course extremely important that we avoid as much as possible people in debt. Additional resources will be made available for this, as will the fight against poverty. It is particularly about families with children. This brings me to the subject of poverty. As I said recently during oral Question Time, I am not from the school that says that poverty does not exist in the Netherlands, because it does exist. Many people live in poverty, Mr Jasper van Dijk also noted. According to the latest CBS figures, 626,000 households lived below the low-income threshold in 2015. But I'm not from the school that says there's a blueprint from The Hague that's possible to solve problems. The municipalities are primarily responsible for poverty policy and decentralisation also means letting go. I would have liked to have said here that I have faith in my fellow governments. I also think it is important that the municipalities have sufficient room for tailor-made work to tackle poverty. Civil society organisations also play an important role. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked me about my ambition for poverty policy. Poverty is poignant and I think we should fight it. Work is the first identified way for a structural solution to emerge from poverty. The cabinet's commitment is to make work pay more, including through agreements with the municipalities on local policy to reduce the poverty trap. I also think it is important that there is support for people who are in debt or in poverty and who really need help. I believe that this should be done in a way that does not undermine the sense of justice of people who make ends meet and thus make ends meet. I also believe that it should be done in a way that encourages people to get to work themselves, so that they do not go backwards when they go to work. Here too: working must pay. In tackling poverty, the cabinet pays particular attention to the position of children. Poverty among children is particularly poignant. In 2015, according to the CBS, 323,000 children grew up in a low-income family. You're gonna give it to any kid who can participate. As of 2017, the previous cabinet has structurally released EUR 100 million per year. Of these funds, 85 million go structurally through decentralisation payments to municipalities. My predecessor made administrative agreements with the VNG in November 2016 on the use of these resources. Mr Peters asked how it would be ensured that municipalities spend the money already made available in the right way to combat poverty and certainly poverty in children. I can tell him the cabinet's holding a finger on the wrist. In the autumn of 2018, the report of the first evaluation of the administrative arrangements will be delivered. This evaluation is a good reason to discuss with the municipalities the progress or adjustment of the criteria, if this is desirable for the use of resources. I will inform you about the results of this evaluation. A final evaluation of the administrative arrangements with the VNG will take place in 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u294	Were you done with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u295	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u296	Mr Peters had a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I knew it, the Secretary of State was ready on the issue of debt. Maybe I missed something, but I asked a question about the Wsnp. Before the court can impose that, the municipality must demonstrate that it has followed as closely as possible a friendly journey. Because of a very strict interpretation of that law, some judges now say: wait a minute, that should not be done by an hired agency that does so by mandate. As a result, many people are not eligible for the Wsnp. I don't think that's the point. And if that's not the point, then we should fix it. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u298	I'm gonna see if I can place that quickly. As far as I know, this question was answered in writing, but I do not know if there will be a question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u299	Mr Peters can come back to that in his second term. Mrs. Van Brenk, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u300	Yeah, I can't believe you're saying that so loudly. Now the Secretary of State doesn't have to answer anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u301	Well, we'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u302	Oh, thank God. I didn't... I didn't... I didn't... I The Secretary of State has said four times that she wants to take care of employers, but our request was: let us take care of the people in debt. I made you a proposal for that. You replied in writing. I am rather disappointed about that, so I would like to come back to that. You say: I see the advantages of a permanent contact, but yes, I am not about that. But you can play a part in it. You say the congregations are about it. We have a problem with municipal credit banks about the level of debt. You say yes, but that's not up to me. Actually, my basic question is, are we all trying to get these people out of debt or are we trying to get them into it even further? You can do something about this. Our request is to try to take care of these people. They need it. So just try to take care of that one contact person, make sure those credits go down, so that those people don't get kicked into debt any further, and let's not, as a government itself, play for debt doublers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u303	I am extremely motivated to work on this subject. A few of the first work visits I made were also about debt and poverty. One of the talks that made the most impression on me was in Leiden with a debt relief buddy and someone who is also in a debt relief process. So I can very well imagine what Mrs Van Brenk means by asking her questions. Although it is a responsibility of municipalities, which themselves can work on it freely, the cabinet has opted for a coordinated approach. One of the things we do is let municipalities exchange good examples with each other. So I think it is very important to discuss these issues. At the same time, I have also indicated that these are policy issues that are largely decentralised. I would certainly like to take this point back to the drawing up of the debt agenda. Then I would also like to talk more about the substance of this issue, and not, in particular, procedurally, as we are now doing. Mrs Van Brenk can rest assured that we will discuss it further. Mr. Chairman. I come to my last priority, within all the important issues that I can deal with, and that is enforcement and the fight against fraud. This is certainly an important issue for the cabinet. Only if you ensure that the rules are respected will the social system remain financially sustainable and we will also have social support. That doesn't mean this cabinet doesn't trust the citizen. Both Mr Özdil and Mrs Voortman spoke of distrust in the social security system. I would like to dwell on that. Mrs Voortman sketches the following picture of practice: in the Participation Act, you are guilty unless you can prove otherwise. I don't see it that way. In the Act of Participation, which is also good in the rule of law, you are innocent, unless the contrary, namely guilt, has been proven. I am assuming with Mrs Voortman that people want to work, want to make a living and that we should encourage it. That's where we find each other. At the same time, of course, we should not be naive, because some people abuse benefits, as some employers also pay under the minimum wage or violate other rules. If you do not deal with that, the good will suffer from the evils, and social support will collapse. Bonafide employers also suffer from unfair competition. Workers then face unsafe and unhealthy working conditions. We have talked about this recently. SZW's enforcement policy focuses both on social security and labour law. It is about combating benefit fraud and enforcement in the field of safe, healthy and fair work. And enforcement concerns the whole chain, from prevention, for example through information and behavioral influence, and control to sanctioning, for example the imposition of fines and the detection of criminal offences. Several organisations, including SZW, Inspectie SZW, social partners, trade associations, UWV, SVB and fellow governments, act in this area. In the government agreement, the cabinet allocates additional resources to the enforcement chain, not only to promote a fair labour market, but also to promote safe, healthy and fair working. The cabinet, gradually increasing until 2021, releases an additional 50 million annually to strengthen the enforcement chain. Mr. Chairman. That concludes my priorities and answers, and I come to the assessment of the amendments. First, the Wajong. Two amendments have been tabled to reverse the reduction in Wajangers' allowance, namely No. 9 and that in part No. 16. With the reduction of the Wajongers' benefit with working capacity, the cabinet brings the treatment of Wajongers with working capacity and young disabled people more in line with the Participation Act. That is why I am not in favour of reversing the measure. Well, I'm committed to helping this group get to work. That is why I do not recommend these amendments. Then the inspection. With the amendment in part No. 13 The applicant wants to ensure that the capacity of the inspection is increased more rapidly. Mr Van Kent also asked for this. The capacity of the Inspection SZW will be significantly increased from 2018. This already requires a great deal of effort from the current organisation, where the workload is already very high. It is precisely in order to be able to use the extra budgets effectively from 2018 that an ingrowth path has been chosen. In this way, the inspection will have the opportunity to build up the organisation in a balanced manner. That is why I do not recommend this amendment. The amendment in part No. 17 is about a well-functioning regional labour market. The amendment is in line with the existing policy of achieving coordinated employment services through Matchen. We have talked about this in detail. Coverage is in line with the objective of the sectoral plans, namely to improve the functioning of the labour market. I shall leave the opinion on this proposal to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u304	Mr. Jasper van Dijk, do you have a question about your amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u305	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I asked the Secretary of State yesterday to take a look at the amendment to item No. 5 to the Navy Note. This is about undoing the Wajong discount with extremely sympathetic coverage: among other things, the under-utilization of Wajong expenditure itself. Isn't that a good chance to meet the Wajongers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u306	I have given a substantive weighting, namely that we want to get people into the same starting position and then we want to get to work. Getting more jobs is more important, as far as I am concerned, than reversing the discount. So I maintain the assessment of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u307	Thank you. An amendment has just been tabled: that in part No 2 of the motion for a resolution. 18 of Van Weyenberg. But I don't know who the amendment is. Okay. The Minister will return to this in second term. Fine. Mrs. Voortman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u308	The Secretary of State said earlier in her speech that decentralisation also means letting go. If that is what she thinks, why is she not in favour of releasing municipalities in or and how they apply the instruments of the Participation Act, for example an instrument such as the counterpart? Wouldn't it be very consistent to give municipalities freedom of policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u309	The field of work and income occupies a separate place in decentralisation, because income policy is also a state policy. That is why there are framework conditions for this, which also means that we have imposed a number of legal obligations on municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u310	But you could also say: we trust municipalities and we make agreements with municipalities on the targets, for example on the percentage of benefit fraud to be dealt with. Then you can release municipalities in how they do it. Surely that would be much more logical than steering so tightly in the sense of: you must and you will carry out that consideration?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u311	The coalition agreement contains an assignment that I would like to fulfil, namely to discuss the consideration with municipalities. Recently another research has come from Rotterdam in which, I think, three-quarters of the people say that this consideration simply feels very good: I am needed again; what a pleasure that there is also attention for me in that way. So it's definitely not just negative. I would like to discuss this with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u312	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's second term. The first term, I mean. You're not done; that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-21-tweedekamer-3.u313	After the suspension, we start with the arrangement of work. Then we will continue the debate.
