ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 to the gradual phasing-out of the deduction due to no or low household debt, Section 34819. Tonight and tonight, the first term of office is on the agenda. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u2	In recent years much has been asked of the Netherlands. Because of the gambling in the financial world, we were in a global crisis in 2007. The oh so sacred banking sector had to be saved by the government and the consequences for the real economy have been great. We saved the banks, but we forgot the people. A lot of cuts were made on facilities. The scholarship was abolished and converted into a loan. Incomes remained at zero or went sharply in the minus. For example, if you were working in home care, you'd be paid under the price of your salary. Housing corporations were subject to additional taxes through the landlord's tax. Construction came to a standstill. The rents rose and there was less social rent. Old people also took a blow to the head. By choosing to use the calculation rate used, pension funds could not index or even reduce pensions. Higher payments for care and a higher own risk were introduced. If you live in the wrong town, you have huge care costs. Older people had to live independently again, because the nursing homes were closed. There was also the increase in the AOW age, which caused financial problems for people with early retirement. I have not even talked about abolishing, for example, the tax deduction of healthcare costs. Maybe not everyone in this room knows, but if you have little money, it will lead to poverty. If you have little money, it means that you can do less, get less out and buy less decent clothes to show yourself. It leads to uncertainty. It leads to unification. I am quite shocked by the collection of older people's associations, including the Union of CEDEFOP, entitled Elders, breaking the silence. There are stories of older people who have to go back to work to make ends meet. Who went to bed early to avoid high energy costs. Who haven't been able to buy new clothes for years. They're afraid of the months when several family members have birthdays, because they can't buy presents. Who are ashamed that their children have to make a financial contribution and wonder if this is the participatory society, because that was what it was about helping each other and not necessarily helping them financially? These are elderly people who no longer have money for outings and social contacts, who have to save on medication that is needed and who, above all, hope that nothing breaks down, because then there is no money for replacement. Why was it so painful to read this? You would think: politics must know that; politics must change its policy accordingly. I find it particularly distressing because here, in this Chamber, there is a permanent debate on our own responsibility. Change your circumstances yourself! Especially don't count on a government that's there for you, because we're a participatory society. If you don't make it, you've failed. These people can't move or change jobs that easily anymore, because they simply aren't there. Year in, year out of your income should limit, with less pension, higher charges and less reimbursement of care from the basic package. This is particularly hard for the elderly, because of shorting on physiotherapy, for example, healthy people do not suffer such a burden, but the elderly do. There's a higher personal risk and so on. Why is that so important in this debate? We're talking to the Cabinet about the beautiful predictions that everyone is making progress. We improve purchasing power per group, the average of the group, but the government actually recognizes that you can hardly indicate for the average of a group what the outliers are up, but certainly down. You'll just sit and watch this debate thinking that you're making progress while you're looking back at it, thinking, "Don't I hear that for decades of politics? I haven't improved on it in recent years." Income has not improved since 2001, and older people certainly have not. And then there's the Hills Act. The Hills Act is felt by many people as yet another attack on the elderly. I can see that you can argue about this, because you can also see the Hills Act as a measure that deals with: how do we deal with property ownership and, for example, renting a property? But why is that? Because the group of older people affected by this is uncertain. They are uncertain about their pensions and about the future. They are also advised for years to put savings in the house and to pay off the house in particular. It struck me when I just got an e-mail from someone. That was as follows: "In order to prevent my parents from being admitted to a nursing home, we used our savings to buy a building trap and turn it into a kangaroo house." We know here that this is a generational home, where parents live with their children and grandchildren to save as much care as possible. "Everything with its own savings adjusted. We have saved the community a lot of money and it feels like a great punishment that we now have to pay taxes on what we built." I understand, because wasn't the message for years: don't count on the government, take care of each other? And then those people did it, and then it's so fast. It's so fast, too. We didn't get the law until the 3rd of this month. We've been trying to figure out what we're talking about lately and what group of people we're talking about. Do we have enough clarity as to which people this is going to hit and how hard? No, we don't have an answer. Did we ask about it? Yes, but then there will be a generality. For example, I asked how many people have a relieved house, but no assets, plus a small pension or no pension. No answer. Then we received a general answer, namely that 63% of the people affected by this measure have power in box 3. But is that a lot of savings, so above the ton or above the million? Or is it underneath and is it 40,000 euros, 45,000 euros? We don't know. We did ask about it. And how many widows are there like the lady from Helmond? I got this example from the elderly unions, from KBO Brabant, KBO-PCOB and PVGE. They sent us a letter about a widow of a small middleman. Their store, where they worked hard, was their retirement. When they retired, they sold the place. The money allowed them to buy their own apartment. The husband has passed away and she has only AOW. The power's in stone. We've been given a good overview, which I'd also like to give to the Secretary of State. After deduction of fixed costs and costs of food and clothing, starting from €15 per day and €50 per month for new clothing, I think that a lot of people in this room spend a lot more....................................................................................................................................... She's insecure. How much more is she gonna pay? Can she buy presents for the grandchildren later, or is that not in there anymore? The worst part is we don't know. People who e-mail me in concerns, I'd like to answer that it's not that bad, but we don't know. That's worrying. The experts we had at the hearing last Thursday weren't very good at saying that either. They said they did know the macroattack, but they didn't know how it hit households. You may wonder if there is not politically inappropriate governance there. The Secretary of State replied. He says he doesn't think so. I can imagine, because you'll only be told. But can he feel that people feel that way? How can he take that away? How's he gonna take that away? People see in this Chamber and in the government agreement that the dividend tax is being abolished and that corporate tax is being reduced: 4.7 billion, let's say, for business. They think, "Yes, but what about my house? What about me?" Why didn't we just get an answer, I'll ask the State Secretary. How many people have a relieved home, no assets and no or a very small pension? The Tax Office can fill out all our forms automatically; we can't make it easier for you. They have to check everything. They can just pull this out of the computers, wouldn't you say? Then we can also consider whether this can be repaired. You'll just sit and watch this debate. You know that we saved the banks and that we were told: no, we need to tighten the belt now, but we're all gonna be better. Rutte also says we're all better off, but he doesn't know what it looks like. That's inappropriate governance. We would like to see more balance in the treatment of rentals and purchases in the Netherlands. Homeowners with a mortgage get a lot of interest relief for years. On the other hand, tenants face a percentage rent increase, while maintenance leaves to be desired and they have a bathroom full of mold or worse. Does this new cabinet have a vision of a housing market where there is more balance between renting and buying and where more is being built, so that we can all live? So that young and old can live, so that there is an alternative for those who now perhaps think that this measure should make a different choice? No. Should the abolition of the Hills Act have been part of a living vision? Yes, of course. We also believe that we should do something about the backward purchasing power of people, but certainly of the elderly. We therefore proposed to increase the AOW by 10% and to really tackle all the sneaking extra costs, the accumulation of healthcare costs. We wanted to give municipalities enough money so they didn't have to ask for high own contributions to their residents. We wanted to eliminate our own risk. We made choices for people and not for multinationals. Does it make sense that you don't want to keep the Hills Act for the future? Oh, yeah. Does it make sense that if we all agree that you're gonna relieve your house, that tax deduction shouldn't be there at the end? Oh, yeah. But is it logical to confront people who have taken this short-term deduction into account in their income situation without compensation for this uncertainty? Then we'll say no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u3	Speaking of cynicism in politics, I have to say that I am concerned about Mrs Leijten's contribution. I'll tell her why. I also have a question for Mrs Leijten. In the SP election programme, the Hills Act is abolished at once. I disagree with Mrs Leijten on all kinds of issues. On other subjects, we agree. I have been listening for 15 minutes to the reasons why, in her view, the Hills Act should not be abolished. In her own account, that law will be abolished in one go. Would Mrs Leijten confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u4	Yes, and there is the part of a vision of living and we compensate people who have had years of stagnation and decline in their income, especially in old age, in all kinds of areas. We no longer apply the calculation rate, which means that pensions are reduced or not indexed. We give the AOW a 10% boost. Of all the care costs that you feel should be borne by people themselves, we say that we carry them together. That's a totally calculated story. Yes, we do, but we have a compensation against it that I miss in your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u5	Fortunately, these own contributions in the Wmo are extremely limited by this cabinet. The point is that Mrs Leijten keeps a story that she actually finds it inappropriate to amend that law because it is not appropriate. In her own programme, she does so in one go. The cabinet does it with a transition period of 30 years, the SP does it in one go. About this compensation: we have all asked for examples. If you look at them, for example, you can see that a single person with an AOW and €10,000 supplementary pension under the line €739 per year gets more through all kinds of reliefs. It would be nice if Mrs Leijten would tell the whole story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u6	Yes, Mr President, these are mathematical examples of which we do not know how high, for example, is the home forfait...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u7	Mr. Chairman. It's there: a private house of €250,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u8	No, Mr Van Weyenberg. Mrs Leijten continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u9	Yes, a house of €250,000 and other lower incomes are not included. I asked the Secretary of State very clearly: let me know how many people there are with a relieved house, no assets and a low or no pension, because I find that particularly interesting to know. I didn't get an answer to that. No, I didn't get an answer. All I get is the answer that 37% have no power. We also see where this has its impact; those are the lower incomes and the lower WPA values and that it is not the high income regime. It is also stated in the CPB's bill that the abolition of the Hills Act has the effect of increasing income disparities. Those are all things you need to look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u10	I'd like to build on this for a while. In your story, you do not at all indicate that you yourself have actually proposed abolishing the Hills Act and at a very rapid pace.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u11	That's where I'd just landed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u12	First of all, you have a story, and it is to your credit that you want to look at the consequences, but my question is the following. You yourself made that proposal in your own election programme. Didn't you look at the consequences at the time, because you're doing it all at once? You are making a second proposal on the spot last week with 10 billion burdens. Did you take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u13	We have looked at the consequences of this at once, surely. For example, we do not reduce taxes for large businesses. We are not abolishing the dividend tax. We raised the AOW. I would like to say that we have all put this forward, and all this has something to do with each other. Now I ask about the consequences, but I don't get them. I don't know how many people have no assets and a small pension. It doesn't say that. Then that's worrying, isn't it, Mrs. De Vries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u14	I think a lot of pictures have been given indicating what the consequences are. If you then say that you have to look at it as a total picture, then it would also adorn you if you look at the total picture of what this cabinet is putting down. And higher old age discount, a lower ib, a number of other measures, a general tax discount going up. Those are all measures that are going to feel older people in their wallets. I do not think it is reasonable for you not to mention this, but just that one point, when you yourself devote such fine words to the fact that it must be a total package. Then you have to be so honest and say...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u15	I'm afraid to say that's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u16	Then I think it is reasonable for you to say that there is also a total package for the coalition. You can't agree with that, but why don't you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u17	I don't think it's enough to compensate for what's happening here. We did that more. We also had a lower income tax in the first disc. We also raised the AOW; this government does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u19	I had just arrived at the question of whether it makes sense to keep that deduction, especially for the sustainability of the finances in the future in which you have all redeemed your house because those are the arrangements now. No. Does it make sense to abolish him? Yes. Do you have to look at the consequences? Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u20	Please continue, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u21	If you look at our election program... The overall picture I really leave to the government, because with the overall picture of the establishment policy where multinationals get all the gifts and people get more expensive messages, I don't feel so comfortable. It was calculated with us and we came out well in all areas. The income of pensioners, especially those with a low pension or only AOW, was much better off with the SP than with this government. During the first day of discussion of the Tax Plan, it became clear that the Court would still have to adopt many measures quickly. The surprise was also great that this proposal was included. The request for this to be a separate legislative proposal was fortunately granted. It was also agreed that it would have a separate treatment outside the Tax Plan. We held a hearing, and I found that hearing impressive last week. I was impressed by the way in which the old people's unions showed that it is mainly the accumulation that makes people insecure and says: we cannot have this, not in such a short and fast term. Even the advocates of abolishing the Hills Act said: if you do it this way, you should not do it. Mr Stevens, one of the inventors of our tax system, called it the renovation of a rattling tax system. And if you asked him to do an exam on the taxation of his own home, he wouldn't succeed. That's a lot to say. Then why are we standing here? After that hearing, I really thought we could sit down at the table and see if we could figure out what's going on here. I thought we could take the time to do it right. I was really going to help with that. And less than two hours later, Mr President, it was pushed through that we were going to deal with it tonight. Now I have not asked for a lot of hours' speaking time. I don't need that in this case. But the fact that we're doing this, it can't be. That as a Member of Parliament, you don't want to control government and government policy yourself, that you don't feel a need for that, fuck. But that you take away others and deprive others of the opportunities to improve and adapt policy proposals, that's a bit of a show of power and actually a bit of a show of power. And you're only so short, I'd like to say to the government parties. We used to do it often, introduce regulations too quickly, a renovation, a review, for example with the police. That's what the whole room was for in that case. That went too fast, too. That's what we've just been fooled for. I also had to think very much about the treatment of the Youth Act. That was about four years ago. We got it before the summer recess and in the summer recess we could ask questions. As of September, we had six weeks to discuss him. The entire youth care system was integrated, from province, municipality and empire. Yes, Mr. Chairman, you're watching. Why are you treating this? I think it is a very important parallel, because at that time many people in the Chamber were ahead of the basic position. They said, "It's okay if the municipality takes the lead." Working as bureaucratic as possible close to people, because that was the promise. Close to the child in the family. But there were also those who warned. My group and other groups said: this is going too fast, this is going too fast, you should not do this in such a way; we have not sufficiently investigated the consequences. If we open the newspapers now, then we can see that municipalities have problems getting the budget round. But even worse is that the children are at treatment stops, including suicidal children, and that the bureaucracy is insane.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u22	I'm looking at you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u23	And that no one has an answer for getting out of here. And the parallel, Mr President, is that people who want to know how it's going to fall, how we want to do it and how we fix it when things go wrong are always said: that's scary; you train the place. While it's up to the government and the MPs to know everything, know what you're saying yes to. We would have liked to have been wrong when it came to the Youth Act and the things that we had foretold. As I said, I think it is the duty of a representative of the people to take a critical approach to the government and to examine it critically. We want to know from all possible income groups what that means for purchasing power, but we also know that no matter how many people have been promised that they will improve purchasing power, real incomes have not risen since 2001. And then we should not move until people say: we are incredibly insecure; we do not know what is coming to us; we do not feel able to improve our own position when we get this additional levy. And then there is the balance: giving 4.7 billion to the business community and wanting to get this bill through the Chamber in 20 days, it doesn't give a pass. The Party for Animals is not present, but I want to make the comparison: perhaps geese are sometimes fed more friendlyly. You'll just sit there and watch. Year after year you have less retirement and higher care costs, and are told that things are getting better for everyone. The banks are saved, but you're drowned yourself. And the government parties took the time to put together their beautiful overall picture, but the Chamber has to look at a bill from all its sides in twenty days to see if it can agree. That has proved impossible for us. If it remains that this is to be agreed on Thursday, then the SP will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I looked at you because I also chaired that debate on youth care a few years ago. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of 50PLUS. I'm running out of time... Mr Van Rooijen, before I give you the floor, I would like to say the following. I've already let you know, but I'm saying it here now. You really need to stick to the subject. This means that you really need to talk about the amendment of the Income Tax Act and not about other issues, and that you do not repeat yourself. I have to point that out to you every time. And if you continue to do so, under the Rules of Procedure, I have the power to turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u25	Mr. Chairman. I see "15.00" now. I will speak only about the content; that is all I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u26	That content is the amendment of the Income Tax Act. Mr. Dijkgraaf, do you want to interrupt already? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u27	Thank you, Madam President. I do need some assurance that Mr Van Rooijen will also make his time. If I fall asleep at some point, it may not be so neat, but less so than if the debate suddenly turns out to be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u28	Mr President, I hope, in line with your proposal, that Mr Dijkgraaf will continue to listen handcuffed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u29	That doesn't say anything about your intention to complete the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u30	There is that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u31	We're gonna see. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u32	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Leijten for her sublime and inspiring speech, in which she, I think, better than anyone puts the core of what we are talking about tonight. It sounds strange if you have 15 hours of speaking time, but I really have nothing to add to that. To begin with, I am speaking on behalf of a large majority of the Dutch population, and the cabinet and the coalition on behalf of a minority in the Netherlands. On behalf of whom is the Rutte cabinet? Is the cabinet also for the elderly? It doesn't really look like it. The repulsion against the cabinet's new plans is everywhere. Why? It reeks of randomness. Apparently, the government needs money. Who's gonna get caught this time? Everyone gets suspicious of it when the government can't be trusted. From 20 to 30 years in a footnote. No concession, but it proves all the more that conditions can be changed in reverse, left or right. How does Rutte guarantee that 30 years will last for 30 years? The next government, even if it's called "Rutte" again, "Rutte IV," can just turn it back to 10 years or 4 years. Who can be trusted if the government itself cannot be trusted? The Nederlandsche Bank, the Central Planning Bureau, the Ministry of Finance, they all speak on behalf of the system, as it turned out in the hearing at the end. Who speaks on behalf of the citizens? The question is whether a self-inhabited home is invested capital or a consumer goods. Then fill it in. I'm going into history. Not fully invested capital, but two thirds based on the inhabited state: that's what it used to be called. On the other hand, there were two deductions, i.e. the mortgage interest rate, in order to be able to reach the capital, thus offsets this with the tax on capital and large maintenance. Small maintenance was in the fare. Then, in the late 1960s, Willem Scholten, one of my predecessors and later vice-president of the Council of State, introduced the slap with maximation. Mind you, with maximation. Then, under Henk Koning, also one of my predecessors, Secretary of State for Finance, later President of the General Court, you will see, they are often well placed again to talk about a temporary reintroduction of the great maintenance, in connection with the economic malaise and employment. After that, there was official pressure now coming up, chairman of the committee, to see it more and more as a counterpart of rent development, so actually just as income. That was and is, in our view, inappropriate. Then Lubbers III and the interim balance sheet. Government with the Labour Party cost a lot of money and so a lot of taxes went up, like Cook's quarter. You can still hear the quarter fall. It's still there. Promise it would be returned. The quarter of Kok, but also the forfait, at Lubbers and the intermediate balance, where the boundary was released at the top. Here we go. And then came the Hills Act, to save citizens who had repaid their mortgage, all that political arbitrariness. Rightly so, as soon turned out. 'Cause then all of a sudden, the villa tax came. In short, there seems to be no end to ever-new arguments to raise taxes on houses. Then the system. I mean the conglomerate of Finance, Central Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank, which determines everything budgetably far beyond the heads of people. It's coming out of my mouth, but I'm totally behind it. There seems to be no escape from that. The system and system thinking are only blissful. It is essential that universities and other economic and fiscal opinion leaders provide a better response to national budgetary considerations. Equality is beautiful, but if an entrepreneur only invests when he has saved, he will soon lose the competition and lose everything. According to Rabobank's latest reports, the government's policy is totally counterproductive. The average mortgage application is higher than ever and prices go through the roof, especially by speculators. Houses are bought up on a large scale, especially in the starter segment. As a result, house prices will continue to rise. Also for next year, Rabobank provides for a 7% increase in house prices, which is reflected in the WPA value and therefore also affects those who have a paid-up home. They are faced with a higher WOZ value and thus with a higher payoff. Just so you know. All this is happening despite the rapid reduction in interest relief. It shows that this interest deduction has nothing to do with the development of house prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u33	Mr. Mulder, would you make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u34	No, I have a question. I saw a colleague come forward who wanted to ask a question, but you sent him away. Is that something special for tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u35	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u36	Did I miss a memo? Why shouldn't my colleague be asking a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u37	I'm so glad you're standing up for your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u38	It's good, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u39	But Mr Bruins can also stand up for himself. He knows he can come back later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u40	But that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u41	No, no. Mr. Mulder, no. Mr. Van Rooijen, I suggest you proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u42	Mr President, with all due respect...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u43	Yes, with all due respect, you can't interfere. I'll take the order of business. So that's where I'm gonna stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u44	But can't I just ask a question? Unless you really note that I have missed a memo in the preparation for this debate. But I actually saw a colleague walking forward and you sent him back. You say he can stand up for himself, but that didn't go so well. It's pretty new, so that's why I thought we'd help. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u45	No, you don't have to. I'm in charge of order, and I'm in charge of interrupting. So I'll give him the floor later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u46	But before we go any further, I'd like to know if there are any other rules for interfering. This was tonight's first interruption. You don't even know what he's gonna say and you're gonna send him back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u47	As I say, Mr Van Rooijen has just begun. So I suggest that Mr Van Rooijen should go a little further and then I give Mr Bruins the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u48	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u49	Thank you so much for helping. Proceed, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u50	Yes, Mr President, I just ended by saying that for next year, too, Rabobank will provide for an increase in house prices of 7%, which will also result in an increase in the WPA value and thus an increase in the depreciation, immediately. This is all happening despite the rapid reduction in interest relief. It shows that the interest deduction has nothing to do with the development of house prices. It is the creation of an artificial shortage of homes and gives a large job to house speculators. Instead of doing something about it through good housing policy, the government is trying to take advantage of its own failure by taxing and capturing the only group that has behaved properly. It's really the world upside down. The speculators will be given free time, see the recent newspaper articles on a large number of mega-house owners, including Prince Bernhard and the babysitting citizens will be punished. The slump in the housing market is dramatic. Opposite far too cheap rentals, there is a very limited supply in the free sector, which is driving young people into the market, where they are being awaited by an army of wealthy speculators. Instead of doing something about it, the government would like to benefit from these speculation gains. Thanks to the policy of this cabinet, housing prices for young people have become priceless, but that is not good enough for the cabinet. Now the houses for the elderly must also become priceless. They will have to sell and who will buy these houses is, of course, clear. Because the speculation in homes is only becoming more lucrative. The demand for expensive rental homes will continue to increase as a result of government policy, as older people will also have to rely on this rental market. So even more room for speculators. Those who believe that this will achieve confidence in the future have a very limited target group in mind. The fact that the VVD participates cheerfully in a policy where wealthy speculators are getting richer, of course, does not surprise anyone anymore, because that is their supporters; the fat cocks, which Rutte so often talks about, will become thicker and thicker thanks to the cabinet. But the fact that the CDA and D66 are also enthusiastically behind this is quite surprising. D66 would like to deliver a new mayor of Amsterdam. That is precisely the city where speculation in houses goes through the roof, where more and more young families leave the city because it is too expensive and so soon the elderly too will be driven out of the city because they can no longer bear the burden of the payoff. Those houses can then be rented out to rich expats who soon populate Amsterdam because the government hopes that with the abolition of the dividend tax more headquarters will come to the Netherlands here quo Amsterdam. Indeed, these types of companies can easily pay sky-high rents from the fiscal windfalls of that policy. The European Medicines Agency will also make a big deal of money. To this extent, there is indeed a direct relationship between the financing of the abolition of the dividend tax and the introduction of the write-off. The Krol motion, which is still under arrest, talks about this. Because after all, those speculators have to rent out the expensive properties to someone. Anyone who then complains about a division in our society has a lot of butter on his head. I come later to talk about the 100% compulsory repayment which was actually the most urgent reason for the cabinet to make this unfortunate proposal. In the questions the PVV had asked, there was also the question: could you not even think about a percentage of 70%? You know, I've been thinking about maybe that shouldn't be 50%. I shall come back to that later in my speech. And why? Because this 100% mandatory repayment means that for young start-ups, people who have been at work for perhaps ten years, the financial burden is skyrocketed because of the compulsory repayment. If you were to reduce that funding burden by having a mandatory repayment of less than 100%, it would help the starters to buy a property that they can't afford at all because of this rigid regime of 2013. Then, of course, it is tragic that from 2013 onwards, this mandatory requirement of 100% repayment will put young people and workers at a disadvantage. As a result of "there is a mandatory repayment of 30 years," the Hillen Act, the exemption from the addition, becomes unaffordable. That is because of the wrong measure from 2013. Now, therefore, the Hills Act must be abolished. That's from one evil to another. In addition, the 2013 measure actually shows the power of the planning agency, De Nederlandsche Bank en Financiën, which said: that mandatory repayment must be made. That is of course good for the banks, because it is safer and so on, otherwise banks may get into trouble. But it did yield the treasury's attention: It was said, in this complicated debate on housing, that we have to give it back; after 2020, somewhere in 2030, we are going to give back that 5 billion. That's what the books said. What is the cabinet doing in formation? That's kind of nice. It brings forward the reduction in charges, which is opposed to the 2013 burden increase, and sells them as a structural tax reduction, which is only a temporary one. Mr Snels and I discussed this with each other recently. What does that even say? What does it mean for the long-term financing of the government if you bring forward a reduction in the burden, which would otherwise occur in ten or fifteen years' time, just after the elections? I shall come back to that later, Mr President. Mrs Leijten has already spoken about many questions. Questions which have been asked, but which have not been answered sufficiently, and questions which have been raised by the pressure of time, I can mention countless; I will mention some of them in a moment and have not asked or asked too late, so they have not been answered either. By "too late" I mean Friday night last week; in last night's answer we couldn't find it. Mr President, the viewers at home may be able to watch 35 hours of top TV. The viewers in Friesland can also watch and see that a simple MP, a representative of a small party in our democracy, has a big voice here about something that lives very much in the Netherlands. My advice to the voters in Leeuwarden and Southwest Friesland is: please vote tomorrow, because every vote matters. As I said, our questions have not been answered one-on-one. For example, what is the effect of the phasing out of the Hills Act? I would ask the Secretary of State to do so, because we have asked that question, but has not been answered on the income-dependent contribution? That is a euphemistic translation for a common income-dependent care premium, which only pensioners pay. As I said this afternoon, the income-dependent care premium for the employees is paid by the boss and has recently been unpaid. Cash register! What are the consequences of the Hills Act, of the abolition of the Hills Act, it is a mouthful; you see, I still have to get used to the income-dependent contribution? We already asked the question for the surcharges. We have also asked the question about the elderly discount and the income-dependent contribution. The answers show the following. So we are talking about 1.1 billion in structural burden increase in 2048. 1.1 billion. This does not affect the benefits, the impact on the elderly's discount and the impact on the income-dependent contribution. The consequences of the Hills Act are as follows. A piece of income is now added to your income. It's actually a non-existent addition. Yes, it does exist, but it is not income; it is an addition to something that is not income, which no one feels as income. Because this is counted on your income, you get a lower supplement. You're gonna get a lower care allowance. Because the old age discount is dependent on income, this addition gives you a lower old age discount. And now he's coming, Mr. Chairman, because of the addition to the income, you're also getting a higher care premium. That's not in the pieces. We asked about it. I would like to know from the Secretary of State for a number of income groups and for a number of values of housing, which means the income-dependent contribution for pensioners, combined with the supplements and the elderly discount. From the answers I deduce the following for the surcharges. The law is only in force for two or three years in 2021, but it already leads to a lower healthcare allowance of 5 million. The people who receive an addition to their income are already going to receive 5 million less healthcare payments. That's 10 million by 2025. That's 25 million by 2030 and 60 million by 2048. Moreover, some believe that the abolition of the Hills Act was not fully implemented until 2048. I don't believe in that at all, but we'll still be debating it. In 2048 there will be 60 million fewer healthcare payments. So that's an extra revenue on top of 1.1 billion. So it goes towards the 1.2 billion. The counter's ticking tonight. It's not in the pieces, but if you add it all up as a simple MP and write it together, it comes into view. Then there's the old-age discount. As this will become dependent, the elderly discount will be reduced by 1 million in 2021, by 1 million in 2025, by 4 million in 2030, and now it will be! In 2048 by 15 million. The elderly discount is therefore gradually falling by 20 million in that period. In other words, in 2048 the allowance will eventually be reduced by 60 million, of which 50 million will be reduced. 50 million less care allowance! If that date of 2048 is brought forward, that blow of 60 million less care allowance and other supplements will come very close. The same applies to the elderly discount. So there is now 80 million more burdens due to a lower surcharge and a lower elderly discount. That's what the treasury pockets. That means that the 1.1 billion is almost 1.2 billion. We do not yet know how much higher the income-dependent contribution to the care premium for the elderly becomes. They're gonna have to pay 6% on the add-on. For a house of €300,000, that is 0.6% of €300,000. That's $1,800. Then you're gonna pay 6% more health insurance. That is just over €100, which you have to pay structurally for a house that you have redeemed as a sparing citizen. What lunatic made this up? Why didn't we know when this rabbit came out of the hat two weeks ago? That was the one piece of paper, the bill that would initially be a letter of amendment, which had been sneaked out in the Tax Plan. I've already shown that paper twice, so I'll save you the third time. There would be seven changes. That's what the Secretary of State said on November 3rd. At the end of the week one appeared to have been cycling out. Thanks to 50PLUS it has become clear that you cannot do that to the 50PLUS Group and the Chamber as a lion, I think. That's what happened. So we want to know how much this income-dependent contribution is. We will then come to the conclusion that the 60 million less in supplements, the 20 million less in old age discounts and the x million higher care premiums together will exceed the 100 million, which means that the total burden increase is not 1.2 billion, but considerably more. Mr. Chairman. Why do I go into these numbers? Because the answers have also shown... There are, of course, some answers and they have given a somewhat enlightening picture. We had, of course, already asked questions about the Hillen Act in the Demissionary Cabinet's Tax Plan, because it was in the coalition agreement. Of course, they were not answered by the Secretary of State. I can understand that, but those questions were already answered in a separate letter, namely in the letter of 3 November, which announced the submission of the abolition of the Hillen Act. The elderly union of KBO-PCOB, consisting of 400,000 members and also present at the hearing last week, was already afraid of what was written in that letter, namely that older people in particular would be affected by that abolition law: before the elderly, and not only the elderly. The answer to our questions showed that 58% of those directly affected were over 65 years of age from next year, 82% were over 55 years of age and 90% were over 50 years of age. So this law affects almost only people who are now over 50 years old. Half the voters by the way! We later asked about the consequences for people depending on the value of the home. We've been looking at homes up to 3 tons. Mr Omtzigt said in a discussion, I believe in the procedural meeting: yes, Mr Van Rooijen, you are also talking about more expensive houses; the house in the Netherlands is actually 3 tonnes. Like there are no people who have a place worth more! Unfortunately, especially in the Randstad and Amsterdam you hardly have a roof for 3 tonnes. But anyway, we've been looking at homes up to 3 tons. In the 1 million group, this is 65%, and in the group of all owners of their own homes, more than 4 million are even 85%. We have now also asked about the relationship with income. Then it turns out that 58% of the 1 million that are going to be covered by the Hills Act, i.e. almost 60%. Yes, you're laughing, Mr. Van Meenen. I don't understand why you're laughing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u51	You mustn't provoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u52	I look you in the eye and I'm a little bored.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u53	I'd concentrate on the ownership.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u54	Yes, Mr. Chairman. But I like to look into the room. Then I don't like it so much that someone's laughing at me all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u55	This is weird! Mr Van Meenen is just smiling, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u56	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u57	I think Mr Van Rooijen should concentrate on his own text. We all listen handcuffed. I think we need enough time for the content, rather than for political games.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u58	This isn't a political game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u59	Contrary perhaps to the target group of the elderly that Mr Van Rooijen has in mind, there are also older people like me, who just have a cheerful character, who sometimes just laugh...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u60	Hold it, I'd say!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u61	... looking at you nicely. So I'd say get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u62	If you look at me kindly, I find it only stimulating. But I didn't get that impression. If that's the wrong impression, I'd be happy to take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u63	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u64	But I'd like to concentrate and not get too distracted by your cheerful temperament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u65	No, because you have 14 hours left. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u66	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to mention another figure, because I am very much of facts and figures. This room might already know that. In the Senate, they knew that, too. Of the group of 1 million own property owners 58%, i.e. almost 60%, has an income of up to €30,000 including the AOW. By the way, we know that half of the AOWs have an income of AOW plus €10,000. So we got all those tables. I told you some of our questions hadn't been answered. I'm trying to characterize this law. Mrs Leijten has already tried that. The best typification I could find for this proposal is the "legislative proposal secretly." Why? A bill that was secretly hidden in a tax plan that would not change the Senate at all and would possibly be forced to reject that Tax Plan, which rarely or never happens and which should not actually happen, is the best proof of the gap between citizens and politics, which we always talk about. Maurice de Dog's survey last Sunday among homeowners and tenants indicated that more than 68% opposed the abolition of the Hills Act, i.e. against the payoff. As I said, this payoff affects not only the elderly but also the workers. The survey also showed that a majority of all coalition parties and all opposition parties are opposed to the abolition of the Hills Act. A survey of Telegraph readers last Friday even indicated that 93% of readers were against it. The Law Hills, cheerful trust. If you pay off your mortgage, you don't get an addition to your income, according to the law. What happens now? Incorrect administration. Resurrection will be punished. People are doing what the law says from 2003, but the law is now being abolished and you're going to pay extra taxes. I referred to the Hoekstra motion in the General Financial Reviews, which was submitted to the Senate two years ago when the Tax Plan was discussed. It was eventually unanimous, supported by the entire Senate and co-signed by myself. That Hoekstra motion said that independent draft laws should not be included in a tax plan. Independent draft laws are draft laws such as the Hills Act which were created independently at the time and which can therefore be abolished independently and independently, not secretly wrapped in a tax plan box, so that they cannot be judged separately in the Senate between Christmas and New Year because they have been put into a package. That motion was passed at that time. I would like to tell you that I was very shocked by what was in the coalition agreement, but also by the statement by the Secretary of State in the first legislative consultation in the morning. He said that we are going to make seven amendments, and one of them is the abolition of the Hills Act. I was stunned. I quickly wrote a letter to Minister Hoekstra on the day of the inaugural debate, with 'personal, content, strictly confidential, urgent, in the hands of' on the envelope. Because I was afraid it might be taken as a letter of congratulation. By the way, I sent it too, but I did not want this letter to be read until after that Friday. In that letter, I do not quote him: if the cabinet and you, Minister, I knew him well from the Senate so to begin, you may forget support of 50PLUS on parts of the cabinet policy. The next day, apparently, the cabinet decided not to submit that amendment, not to hide it secretly, but to put it in a separate draft law, which complied with the Hoekstra motion and I can see with him that he is not embarrassed by taking action against a unanimously adopted motion that he had tabled. You see, we help the Cabinet in every way possible. This afternoon, on behalf of the 50PLUS Group, I also published a press release in which we spoke clearly in the spirit of that remark. Maybe I'll come back to that. Mr. Chairman. We have also discussed the taxation of dividends in relation to the abolition of the Hills Act. I've just calculated that the proceeds of the redemption penalty until 2060 are 28 billion. For 30 times half of 1.1 billion, i.e. 550 million, the average annual yield in the 30 years to 2048 is 16.5 billion. In addition, the remainder of the period up to 2060 will be worth 1.1 billion more than 12 years, which is more than 13 billion. For example, I come to a profit from the depreciation of 28 billion to 2060, the end of all the calculations made by the planning agency when the electoral programmes are passed on. And what is the coincidence? I was stunned when I calculated it: in 2060 the abolition of the dividend tax would result in a budgetary loss of nearly 60 billion. This means that half of the abolition of the dividend tax is paid in the budget by those who have to pay the penalty, which is an increase of 2060 of 28 billion, and that is almost half of what the State has lost if we abolish the dividend tax. I'm going back into history, Mr. Chairman. The Hillenwet was there. I shall come back to this later because Hillen saw coming that the treatment would not lead to sufficient support. He stopped the treatment at the time. There was then a cabinet-Balkenende I and the coalition agreement said that the Hillen Act would come into being. And that's what happened. Joop Wijn then made sure that law finally appeared in the Official Journal. But something special happened. In the pieces it is now also changed. Last night, in the answers we got. In the Hillen Act, it said that if you had repaid your debt, your mortgage debt, there would be no addition to your income. There was a non-existent rental value. Once the debt had been abolished, the rental value had also been abolished. It just wasn't there. Joop Wijn, Balkenende I, wanted to take the bill to the Chamber and then it comes. Then the Treasury officials are going to say that this is not going to happen. I've heard it from Hans Hillen myself, I'd like to tell you here. Everything I tell you is true. Hillen has told me that the Treasury officials have said: that is not going to happen, that law is not good either. He was not yet adopted, dear Joop, only if you put that rent value back in the law, so as a fictitious addition, we are prepared to support that official as well. And what did they make up then? I still can't pronounce it: a fictitious cost deduction once you've repaid your debts. So you get a fictitious addition, because it had to come, and finance made up that you get a fictitious deduction, which makes the balance zero. You can do that by leaving the rental value zero. Then you don't have to put anything fictionally into a deduction scheme. No, they said it's got to be figured out and then we're gonna make a fictional deduction. The people who are watching and listening now don't get it anymore. We have to understand, so I'm just gonna explain. In the end, this trick is a trick, because I call it a trick, and it is also a electoral deception that law came about and we are left with the misery. And who should be honored: Mr Omtzigt has already tabled an amendment in 2013 to at least correct the strange consequences of this fictitious cost deduction, because he saw that he is always quick to go when all that the system of applying the interest deduction at a lower rate immediately led to a small addition to his own home, which should be neutral. Because people then made up that you got a lower percentage for the deduction of interest, you got a sneaky little addition. The CDA then said, in 2013 in the opposition: that's not right, that's off the table. That didn't get a majority. What did Mr Omtzigt do in the spring, in the summer? I've got it right here. He has asked questions to the Secretary of State who gave neither title nor jota. I tabled my amendment, literally the same as the CDA's 2013 amendment. And so you can see: CDA and 50PLUS are pulling up together. Mr. Chairman. Why did I tell you this now? Because this is an example of how legislation sometimes happens in the Netherlands, fortunately, not often, but sometimes. Then things happen behind the scenes that even the people who are most involved have to say: this is not what we wanted, but for charity we have to go right if it does not go left, but right. What's going on here? That's what you saw in the hearing last week. That is the system of thinking towards the citizen. The system thinking that you found at De Nederlandsche Bank and the Centraal Planbureau at the end of the hearing. The Central Planning Bureau said: yes, that Bill Hillen is 15% included in the purchasing power cards. But that is not possible at all, because this is a very special group that you cannot capture in purchasing power. So you can think it's 15% in there, but it's not in there. The Nederlandsche Bank also made an intervention. It was very simple. The system is the system. We got this. It's a faulty system. It is a subsidy and it must be abolished. I almost asked: if something is not taxed, is that a subsidy? On my table in this room, where Mr Sazias is sitting now, I have a very small bike. That's the mascot that's on my desk at home. It's a very small miniature bike. If a bicycle or a race bike is not taxed, that is not a subsidy. Buying a bicycle is a consumer spending. A private home is primarily a consumer spending, not an investment. A property is not like shares that yield dividends, or as savings that yield interest. If you do not maintain a property properly, the value in principle only decreases, apart from increases in value. If you don't maintain the property, you know one thing for sure, namely that the value drops. So not only is a home to live in, but you are also obliged to support it. Therefore, the maintenance costs used to be deductible and there was a gross rental fee. So you have to maintain a place. That's what costs are incurred. It is therefore not true that a property is actually an ordinary asset, such as shares, savings accounts or a second home. About power objects, you get revenue and you can reject them. A house doesn't yield any returns. And if you don't maintain it, it'll only lead to loss. People know that, so they have a duty to maintain the house properly. Therefore, in the past, the inhabited value was also the measure for the taxation of the rental value. Therefore, the measure was not the free sales value of 100%, but the inhabited value of two thirds. I'll get back to you on that. A property is not freely sellable. So it was the inhabited value, two thirds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u67	I see you at the interrupting microphone, Mr. Ommzigt. But I would have liked to have given Mr Bruins the floor, if he still needs it. I see that is not the case. Mr. Ommzigt, do you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u68	I have a question about the fantastic historical speech of former Secretary of State Van Rooijen. It now begins on the gross addition of rental value for the period 1973 to 1977. Then he was Secretary of State. How high was the add-on at that time, so what he calls "payback"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u69	What I know is this. I'll give it to you later. In the period that Grapperhaus was Secretary of State, so shortly before my period, the gross rental value was over 1 billion. I say this out of my head; the pieces are on my table or I have them here. The interest deduction and the cost were 12 billion, I believe. As a result, there was a negative balance on the home of 11 billion. Those were goldens back then. That was the system at the end of the sixties: deductible interest, deductible maintenance costs with a very modest, maximized rental value addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u70	That "very modestly maximized rental value add-on" was 1.3%. That is more than twice as high as the own house forfait of 0.5%. So in the time of Secretary of State Van Rooijen, what he calls the "loss penalty" was twice as high as now. And it's worse. In 1974, the first year that Secretary of State Van Rooijen served in the cabinet, he increased the addition. He raised the count! So why don't we hear that in the historical argument we're hearing from Mr. Van Rooijen right now? When he was Secretary of State, the count was higher and he raised her himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u71	First of all, I recorded the figures from the period about six years before me, under Grapperhaus. It's also in his book that I have on my table. That's where I got it last night. There was then a small addition with a very large item to deduct interest and maintenance. The rental value found by Secretary of State Van Rooijen in the Den Uyl cabinet was from previous Cabinets, which also included the CDA, namely the Cals cabinet, the De Jong cabinet and the Biesheuvel cabinet. So that rental value that was there at the time isn't mine, it's three CDA cabinets for me. And indeed, I do not have these small details in my head, but I certainly believe that under the Den Uyl cabinet there was also an increase in the rent value in all kinds of burdens. But I will come straight to a very different point, which you should mention if you want to be complete about what the Den Uyl cabinet has done. If you want to know right now, I'd like to tell you right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u72	Tell me. Or Mr Omtzigt first, or else it will stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u73	My question was not what the Secretary of State did before Van Rooijen or the Secretary of State after Van Rooijen. My question was why the rent forfait was raised in 1974 by Secretary of State Van Rooijen, which made what he calls the depreciation increase de facto. And 1.3% is much more than 0.5% for all homes. He can do it times two thirds, because it was the inhabited state, so it's allowed to be 1%. This cabinet does 0.5%. When he was in charge of the cabinet, it was twice as high. His reproach is now that it is an absolute disaster. If it's a disaster now, what was it in 1974?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u74	You have clarified your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u75	I indicated that before I was part of the Den Uyl cabinet, the amount of the rent was what it was. It has been slightly raised in the Den Uyl cabinet. I'm sure you will. I can check with you later. I'm not giving you any trouble at all. By the way, we had an energy crisis at the time, but I will get to that in a moment. You challenge me to bring in a number of things that would otherwise be discussed in the long evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u76	Mr. Snels, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u77	Certainly, Madam President. This is a time I remember vividly. Perhaps I can help the former Secretary of State, because I think Mr Omtzig's remarks are somewhat one-sided. If I remember correctly, there were also top rates above 70%, the mortgage interest rate deduction was very, very, very much higher, and that was one of the reasons why the rent credit, when it was still called, had to be a bit in balance with the deduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u78	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u79	Yeah, that's how we get this, of course. Sorry, Mr. Snels, next time you won't get the floor. Mr Omtzigt may respond for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u80	I understand, of course, that the left-wing parties in this Chamber are defending the government of Den Uyl, and I respect that. But the question is not whether the mortgage interest rate deduction was high and all the rates were high and therefore everyone was happy. The question was whether there was a net addition at that time. That net addition was there for the people who paid off their mortgage in the 1970s. He raised it in that term. I'd like to confirm that, because then I understand. Then I would also like to hear when Mr Van Rooijen thought that was wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u81	I thought I'd already answered his question. I can always check with the support of the staff how big that increase was. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u82	That's in the second term, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u83	In the second term, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u84	For the historical overview: which party was Mr Van Rooijen from when he was Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u85	From the CDA!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u86	No, even stronger, from the CVP! Yeah, just so you know. And because Tiemen Brouwer died in August the cabinet was there just now Van der Stee went to Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u87	You ask questions like this, Mrs Leijten, but I asked Mr Van Rooijen to keep to the subject. Then he does, but then he gets a question like that and he's gonna keep a whole story about his own past.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u88	But, Mr. Chairman, I think this is relevant to the people watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u89	A biography by Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u90	Mr Van Rooijen is now here on behalf of 50PLUS but was still a member of the predecessor of the CDA. It was the CDA who asked what their own secretary of state wanted then, wasn't it? It's all a little weird. Hahaha.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u91	You can laugh too, Mr. Van Meenen. Hahaha.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u92	Do you have another point of order, Mr. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u93	Just so we're clear, I still haven't made a point of order. Let us avoid that for as long as possible tonight. But you know the PVV as a batch of content and connection. When I hear this debate in this way, can we see that both the proposal to abolish the Hills Act and the Den Uyl Cabinet are wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u94	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u95	I will reply to Mr Mulder and Mr Omtzigt. But first, I will finish my sentence towards Mrs Leijten. Duisenberg didn't have a Secretary of State for Finance at the time. It took four months to find a KVPer who also knew about taxes. That's what I've become. Duisenberg has been a minister for four months in a crisis period, the energy crisis, without a Secretary of State. It seems unthinkable, but in the past someone was wanted for a long time, while you are called from a campsite nowadays. I won't mention any names. That was a while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u96	What nice details. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u97	Mr Omtzig asked about the Den Uyl cabinet. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to raise a point. Anyone who bounces should expect the ball. I was indeed in the Den Uyl cabinet. The first assignment I received, Mr Omtzigt, was not to raise taxes. I was working at Shell's, and I got a call to see if I wanted to be Secretary of State. Andriessen called. Then I went to Gerrit Wagner, the boss of Shell and later of the committee on the future of Dutch industry. I said, what am I supposed to do? I only had half a day to think about it. He said, "Martin, we've never had anyone go into politics at Shell; you always have to do that." Then I called Andriessen and told him I was available. I've been elected out of five candidates. Everyone at Shell said you shouldn't do that, because it's a left-wing cabinet; it falls fast and that's only going to raise taxes. It was January 2nd I was just sworn in by Queen Juliana when Duisenberg and I came to a conclusion. That happened with the curtains closed, because it had already closed Den Uyl just before Christmas. Moreover, I still have immense respect for that man; I would like to have said that here. I say this in particular to Mr Mulder, who thinks otherwise. Duisenberg and I came to the conclusion that we should not increase taxes, but lower them. I've reduced income tax four times in those four years. We've entered the WIR. The WIR meant, apart from the gas benefits, 4 billion. That was net 40 points corporate tax. The corporation tax was 48%. Nelissen had tried to reduce it by 2% in the Biesheuvel cabinet, but he did not get a majority. The Den Uyl cabinet came up with the WIR's proposal: 4 billion net, still separate from natural gas. I'm talking about a reduction in corporation tax. That's 40 points. Company tax went from 48% to 8% outside the natural gas sector of the NAM. I told you then: left-wing Cabinets rule right-wing and right-wing Cabinets rule left-wing. That appears to be a bit today, but that aside. Why am I saying this? The cabinet reduced income tax three or four times. The self-employed deduction was introduced by me to compensate the self-employed in the event of high inflation. We did. The coalition agreement stated that a study should be carried out on the taxation of assets, succession and donations, as well as on the interest deduction. Mr Omtzigt, you have to listen now, if you will. The government agreement stated that a study should be carried out on the interest relief. We're talking about the property, the rent value and the interest deduction. We went to college on that for six months. The conclusion of the cabinet, at least of Finance, of Duisenberg and myself, was that we would not in any way interfere with the mortgage interest deduction, which at that time also applied to a second home and the like. Let me explain to you why. Duisenberg said to me: Martin, I am from the Labour Party, so I cannot defend and explain this to Den Uyl; you must do so. I spent a few hours at Den Uyl's Square. In the end, Prime Minister Den Uyl proposed to the cabinet to follow the Secretary of State's proposal to maintain the interest deduction in its entirety. A left cabinet rules right. I spoke to Wiegel at the hearing. We've known each other from that time. Wiegel had expected that the Den Uyl cabinet would reduce or abolish the interest deduction. That would have been before the VVD electoral register, but that didn't happen. We have solved that very wisely. It was not in the throne speech, not in the Millions note, not in the Tax Plan: it was included in the IXB budget. What I would like to say, Mr Omtzigt, is that the Den Uyl cabinet, with a limited, modest increase in rental value, has maintained the ownership of its own house, and that the uncertainty that existed about the deduction of interest, which was stated in the coalition agreement, disappeared as if it were thunder. I defended that plan in the cabinet with Gruijters of D66. Hans Gruijters knew, as I did, that the Netherlands had the lowest own house in Europe: 33%. May you guess what the property was four years later, at the end of the Den Uyl cabinet: 50%! From 33% to 50% in four years! Under a left-wing cabinet, property grew like a rocket. Not surprisingly, because the interest deduction was maintained and because of the hyperinflation of 10% and an interest rate of 12% everyone said: we have to buy a property now, because in four years' time, it will be priceless. I am still pleased that this Den Uyl cabinet has done so with the support of Duisenberg and Hans Gruijters, which has gradually brought us into the middle of our own home. The property is now around 58%, but the last 8% lasted 30, 35 years. Mr. Ommzigt, you started with a detail about the rental value and I explained the big story about the interest deduction, which still exists for your own home. Mr President, I was talking about the fight between the treasury and system thinking. I mentioned the Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank. That system thinking, also of Finance, the Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank, I call scraping and greed. The payoff not only affects the elderly, but also the workers and the starters. For they will pay the full penalty in 30 years' time. And the citizens know that if the owner of his own house is caught today, it will be the tenant tomorrow. And that's also the explanation from Maurice the Dog's survey. Two thirds of the people of all parties, including the tenants, said: look at the figures, today I, tomorrow you; today the owner of the house, tomorrow the tenant. The Ministry of Finance, I regret to say, is thinking in systems and we see this in the answer to the questions on this proposal. In the Netherlands we have a troika consisting of the Ministry of Finance, De Nederlandsche Bank and the Central Planning Bureau. Those three run the Netherlands together. In fact, in the formation period and the entire government period, the Cabinet and the House of Representatives simply implement the troika system approach of this group. Those three run the Netherlands together. The cabinet and the House of Representatives follow that quite slavely, is my image. Also look at the composition of the ESC. It consists of employers, employees, but also the crown members. I do not check them all, but if you know that De Nederlandsche Bank also has a crown member in the SER and the Central Planning Bureau has a crown member in the SER, then it is clear that in the SER through the crown members De Nederlandsche Bank thinks about the lead, advises on what legislation should be put in place and will also monitor the implementation of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u98	Stick to the subject, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u99	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u100	Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u101	I'll stick to the lesson, Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the system thinking of the Ministry of Finance. That is the Ministry that submitted this terrible bill, supported by the Planning Bureau and De Nederlandsche Bank. Look at the hearing. That's why I have to mention this. That troika has the Netherlands in an iron grip. The Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u102	Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u103	The Ministry of Finance does not submit any legislative proposals. Mr Van Rooijen may attack the Secretary of State, he may attack me, attack my colleagues, but I do not think we should talk about the Ministry. Civil servants work there; they carry out what the political leadership determines. I know Mr Van Rooijen. He is purely in this and I would ask him to put it another way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u104	You did understand what I meant. It is, of course, the Minister of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance has nothing to do with this. It's the Minister. The Minister is responsible for what he presents, for what he defends and for what he has published in the Official Journal. I'm not talking about the civil servants. That seems clear to me. I was talking about the Minister of Finance, I was talking about the person who is submitting a bill, and politics is in an iron grip. Politics should simply follow what the Minister of Finance, and in this case the Secretary of State, writes. This is clear from the language and the way in which questions are answered. In it you can read that the treasury should not miss money, but that the citizen should. In other words, it is not the treasury that misses money because of this proposal, but the citizen, but the finance minister actually thinks that the treasury should never miss anything, but that the citizen should be allowed to do so with the discharge. A windfall for the Treasury that is this structural deficit is a setback for the citizen. Take the net credit. In the past, maintenance costs were deductible in order to maintain the property properly because otherwise you would lose value. The forfait was abolished by Hillen and was introduced again via Wijn along the back door. So it's a toy of politics. It's a toy ball that eventually led us to have the villa tax. In many ways, this fictional income on the basis of the WPA leads to an increasing tax burden on those who have repaid a housing debt. Those who still have a mortgage debt can still use the interest deduction. It is now being limited, with full compensation being given to those who are in debt through a lower private house. Last night's answers say that on the one hand 600 million more must be paid by the people in debt. On the other hand, they get more than 600 million back through the reduction in their own housing. Some people said at the hearing last week that the exemption under the Hills Act is some kind of rich story. I have already indicated that 80% are over 55 years of age and 80% have to do with a housing value of less than €300,000. The vast majority of the population in these groups also has an income below €30,000. We have the villa tax. Actually, I thought it was home ownership, it was and should be about property formation. The promotion of home ownership is still rarely heard in this house; at the time it was a crown jewel of the KVP in the sixties, with which I was raised and that I was inspired with the dolphin was led to stability in society and to a sense of responsibility. The Senate must review laws that we approve here. If this bill comes through this Chamber, sooner or later, the Senate will have to assess it on quality of legislation, feasibility, diligence and budgetary aspects. Mrs Leijten has already pointed out that you can be very critical of the care of this bill, and I say it carefully. What is also important for the Senate is that it is a proposal that is budgetaryly negligible. If careful treatment in this Chamber led to the law coming into force a year later, this would only result in a structural loss of 24 million. I've been calling that "peanuts" all day in the media today. If this law, which, in the event of a delay of one year, is a structural cost of 24 million for this cabinet, is the case belli, you know what that word means, then it is clear that the start of this cabinet is a false start. The Senate will have to judge it. In my opinion, the care of this law is critical and its impact is budgetaryly negligible. So the First Chamber will also have to see if it can and must reject it or if it lets it float through it, just like in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u105	I'm listening with a lot of interest. I'm learning a lot, too. I'm a lot younger than you, and certainly your stories about the Den Uyl cabinet are interesting, especially since you've been there at that time. We now note that a sum of 24 million is very important. How do you estimate that? Why do you think that this cabinet is making all this effort for only 24 million, especially if you can put that off against other decisions taken in the past and now in this cabinet period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u106	I imagine the Cabinet is putting its neck into the dividend tax. Look at last week's debate with the Prime Minister, which I participated in. But if, in the same week, the next day in the hearing, they already block and become nervous about 24 million in the same way by means of a procedural proposal for separate treatment because of care and so on, then I think there is a loose thread in the Rutte cabinet. My picture is the following, and we will continue to experience it over the next few weeks and months. The agreement was negotiated between four parties after months of negotiations. If you're going to pull a little bit of a pebble into that shaky building, I think people are saying that the bill is really not right. The coalition supporters don't support it. It is not supported by the opposition parties. But if we give in to that stubborn 50PLUS approach, by the way, supported by many colleagues... If it were a big opposition party, then perhaps, but for that little one we really are not going to run a risk. Maybe as a big opposition to the dividend tax that does with our support... But 50PLUS about that payoff and 24 million we find a case belli. That will be pushed through under all circumstances. And that's why I'm here tonight, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u107	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u108	Thank you. The Prime Minister's outstretched hand is only worth something if the Prime Minister listens first. I told you, for 50PLUS, this is the case belli. No more support for Rutte III if Rutte III doesn't listen. Rinus Michels, once a member of the board of the KNVB, with Van Rooijen from '89 to '93, was the coach of the winning Dutch team at the European Championship in '88. I was there with Joop den Uyl. No, not with Joop den Uyl, because that was the time before. I was there with the Prime Minister at the time. Michels once on that board said to me: Martin, football is war. I say it with some shudder, but politics sometimes seems to be at war. The actions of the coalition parties in the Committee on Finance, Mrs Leijten, pointed to this last week, I mentioned a declaration of war. I literally said I was stunned. You can win the vote with 12-11, as we accidentally won the vote with 13-12 the week before, but that's not the point. It's about whether you can have a good discussion. I was so angry that I said: if one wants war, one can have it. If Rutte turns an outstretched hand into an outstretched foot, I'm very angry and sad about it. Then I decided to speak here for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u109	We talk a lot about history. One of the secretary of state of the PvdA, also former alderman, said you can't live in bullshit. Mr. Van Rooijen shows the other way around that you can live a long time over bullshit. But I would like to say something about the parallel with history. I am very opposed to how this is done under state law. I will also take a strong stand against this in my own speech. Mr Van Rooijen talks all the time about history, what he's been through and what it's all about. But getting terms like "war," "war declaration" and that kind of language into the Hills Act? I would ask Mr Van Rooijen to take that back, because in the light of history, however much I understand that he is against this law, it is a terminology that is really inappropriate in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u110	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u111	I meant to say it just like Michels said: football is war. That's also metaphorical. I only meant, and I said this literally, that in the debate in the Committee on Finance, I thought it might look like war. I didn't say it was war, but it could look like war. It's metaphorical, but I understand what you're saying, and I totally share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u112	Then I am glad that it is also meant as a metaphor, because it was rather strong. We must also keep an eye on the greats in Parliament, no matter how angry we are about measures. Thanks for taking that interpretation back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u113	I used the metaphor because I noticed that the coalition wanted to block a large opposition in every way, because I was supported by the entire opposition, to have a fair chance for careful, separate treatment. I will continue to fight for that to the bitter end. Mr. Chairman. A coalition chord is cast in concrete. After long negotiations, no stone may be unwrapped, otherwise the whole structure will collapse. Look at the debate on dividend taxation. Finally, I can only say to everyone that I am sorry to have to say that I am advising them to postpone the last repayment of the mortgage and not to do so. If you intend to do so, if you wish to pay off the final stage of the mortgage, for example before the end of the year, or if the bank actually requires you to do so, or if you do require it, do everything to ensure that you do not pay off the last piece of the debt, otherwise you will be punished with the penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u114	We are finally reaching a point of substance. The redemption will be mandatory and the moment you fail to comply with the redemption, the Hills Act will enter and you will continue to pay the interest at the same time. I would like to suggest to Mr Van Rooijen: be against this bill, which was quite clear. Two written exchanges were held with the government on this subject. I do not remember a tax bill in recent years about which we have asked written questions more than twice. We have all the speaking time everyone wants to ask substantive questions. I am very curious to know what substantive questions are being asked. But here Mr Van Rooijen is doing something that is not convenient. If you don't pay off while you have to pay off according to your tax schedule, your mortgage will no longer be qualified in box 1 and you will have to pay the "law Hills" and pay the items. This kind of advice doesn't make people any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u115	Mr Omtzigt is right to point out one aspect of my speech. I just want to make it complete. What he says does indeed occur, but it does not occur for 20 or 30 years. That rule is only five years old and it runs for 30 years, so it takes 25 years to effect the effect that if you don't pay off, you will indeed have an interest rate that is no longer deductible. I am talking about two things; perhaps I should be more specific about that. I am talking about the 53% estimated by the Rabobank to be free of redemption; that is what I am primarily referring to. I said, if you still have a piece of mortgage, postpone the repayment. This means implicitly that this should also be possible. I said: but if the bank does actually require you, I didn't say "obligatory" - that you'd pay off sooner, for whatever reason, then do so, not unless it's mandatory because you're stuck with it. The result Mr Omtzigt points out will not take place for 25 years, because for the first time after 30 years, the rule is that if you have not repaid the entire debt after 30 years, you will pay interest over the remainder of the debt but no longer have a deduction. That's a problem that's not gonna happen for another 25 years. You have two groups: the people who paid off their debt yesterday and with the payoff are the losers, and those who intend to do so tomorrow, not knowing that the payoff is there, who do so tomorrow and then, just a little later, on 1 January, read in the Official Journal that the penalty has entered into force, albeit because of the Tax Office's computers, with a delay of one year before it actually leads to the first addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u116	Finally, Mr. Ommzigt. Shortly, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u117	Mr President, I am glad that we are being briefed. I hope you do that more often tonight. It is not true what Mr Van Rooijen says. In 2001, the law started to run that you have to pay off within 30 years, so in 2031 most of those redemption-free mortgages must be fully repaid; otherwise you have a problem. Secondly, I would like to inform Mr Van Rooijen of what he calls the'refoulement'. With a house of three tons, a little more than average, you will have an addition of €1,500 with 0.5% of your own house. One thirty of them is €50 per year. A person with a pension of €10,000 who is the average pension, Mr Van Rooijen was right to pay €10 net, which is €0.80 per month. Make sure you don't get in trouble with your bank by paying or not paying €0.80 a month, so I say to these people, whether they agree with this law or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u118	This was a statement, an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u119	This comment by Mr Omtzigt makes it clear that we need hours to illustrate the impact of this bill. If he exists with all his knowledge and background in order to reduce this to a few dimes, I refer him to everything I have with me, chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, to tables 5, 6, 7 and 8 on page 12, which shows that in 2048 there is at least an addition of €300,000 for a house of €554. And I assure you, someone who now owns a three-tonne house in Amsterdam will have a housing value of at least double in 2048 and will then walk from €554 to €924.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u121	These are not dimes, but many hundreds of euros in 2048. And that law could be fully operational in four years, with the numbers I'm mentioning right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u122	In any case, I must give my full support to that part of this speech. This is, of course, about the World Trade Organisation value. We saw today alone that the homes have risen by 17%, so you can imagine what would happen if that continued. And when someone says 17% every year... I just had a debate here...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u123	Who are you responding to now, Mr. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u124	... in which the government suddenly said that wages will rise by 3.3% each year, so that 17% is also possible. But what I really wanted to say...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u125	Well, you'll have to tell me right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u126	I meant to say this. In view of the figures mentioned by my colleague, the abolition of this law is not necessary at all. It was just so good. I have here an overview of De Nederlandsche Bank of the financial stability of our beautiful country. I'm sure I'd like to...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u127	For the record: are you interrupting, do you have a question for Mr Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u129	Then I'd say ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u130	I wanted to ask him this. The Netherlands Bank notes that in recent years, on average, the unpaid debt has already fallen by 2% a year, given the voluntary repayments. And the total redemption-free debt...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u131	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u132	Well, I can't say that until...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u133	No, you really need to ask a question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u134	But then that question comes out of the sky, and that is, of course, strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u135	No, you're not going to read a long introduction. I can't. I'm really sorry. An interruption should be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u136	Mr President, with all due respect. I've been here about six months. I have sometimes seen colleagues standing here three minutes before they ask a question. We have 35 hours of speaking time tonight. Then why don't we give you an hour for questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u137	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u138	That seems to me to be the same as an interruption of 30 seconds in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u139	Well, you'd better change the Rules of Procedure. That's not how it works. And those colleagues who do bad are a really bad example. I would not like to take an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u140	You'll have to fight that with your co-chairs and vice-presidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u141	No, I'll fight this out with you first. You need to ask a short question. You must now ask a short question, otherwise I must give Mr Van Rooijen the floor to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u142	Okay, just a quick question. But short is relative, isn't it? The current low savings rate and the additional tax deduction for a small or no household debt give households an incentive to pay off the loans with their savings. That is stated, not by me, but by De Nederlandsche Bank. So, the current law Hills gives households an incentive...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u143	What's the question, Mr. Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u144	The question is: isn't it very weird that given all the numbers I'm not allowed to mention...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u145	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u146	... but mentioned by De Nederlandsche Bank...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u147	Clear, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u148	...then this law...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u150	... is now being proposed to be abolished?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u151	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u152	I liked this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u153	Well, this is the last time this way. Really. The Rules of Procedure state that an interruption consists of a remark or a question. This applies not only to you; it applies to everyone. If anyone goes over there, I'll just turn off the microphone. It's as simple as that. The same goes for the answer, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u155	Short. At least, if you need to respond. Otherwise, I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u156	If that's okay with the colleague. We've got plenty of time. Mr. Chairman. I now intend to go through with the Secretary of State the written answers we received last Wednesday evening, just before the hearing, and last night in the second round. I have noticed that Mr Omtzigt has already said twice that, in his view, this is the legislative proposal that has had the best preparation ever in his long career in this Chamber. I have to tell you that for me this is a world record of not, or short, or half answer within two weeks. It's true, we even got an extra round of questions for one day. I had to recover first from the idea that I could still ask questions. I also forgot a few. Two weeks ago this was submitted separately and now Mr Omtzigt exists to claim here that this is the best explained, substantiated and discussed bill in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. We had agreed that there would be a second legislative consultation on the letter of amendment, also given that it is a separate draft law. It was agreed that we would make a written round after the draft law came into force. That's what we enforced back then. It would then be considered whether there would be a separate legislative consultation on this bill, or a written round. When the written questions were adopted, the chairman of the Committee on Finance concluded that this was appropriate for plenary. I had to ask for an additional procedural meeting on Thursday after the hearing of a small party, because I wanted this to be dealt with in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u157	That discussion has already been done, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u158	Yes, but Mr Omtzigt is not only trying to tell me, but also the viewers and the listeners...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u159	No, you shouldn't provoke Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u160	...that this is the best-founded and handled proposal. That's definitely a definite falsehood. Last week, it was decided at the procedural meeting that we could ask one more day questions, that there would be no separate legislative consultation and that it would simply be treated in the same way as the Tax Plan, albeit in a separate session. Fortunately, but it goes in the same stream, so that it can be treated in the same stream. I object to this, and I do not know where Mr Omtzigt is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u161	I suggest you continue with your speech. That procedural discussion has already been...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u162	Yes, but, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u163	...and we're not going to repeat it here. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u164	Yes, Mr President, but I would like to make it clear to Mr Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u165	You already have. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u166	Well, I hope it helped. I don't have the impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u167	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u168	Mr. Chairman. I am going to go through with the Secretary of State the answers we have received in writing, rather than the legislative consultation, because then we could have had a detailed legislative consultation with the Secretary of State on the answers. Mr. Chairman. I may have to add reading glasses to the small typed ones sometimes, but I hope to be able to manage. From page 4 of the written answers I have the typed ones in front of me, because they are slightly larger than the printed ones, as I said, that 58% of the people affected by the fine are over 65. 83% are over 55 and 90% are over 50. If that's not an anti-elderly charge, if this isn't evidence of an anti-elderly cabinet, I don't remember. The Secretary of State says on page 5 he can all respond to it, because we only have this discussion now that it is modest if there are 5 million fewer supplements. Well, if in the first year that law only gives you a tiny little bit of a little bit of money, but you've already lost $5 million in healthcare payments, I don't call that modest at all. I shall leave it aside, therefore, because it was not requested, there was also no reply to the income-dependent care premium. It was not included as a 6% levy which was not modest either. Table 2 on page 6 shows the breakdown by value. It shows that 76% of the people who all have a home, the 4.3 million, have a property with a World Health Organization value of €300,000. Three-quarters of the people with their own home............................................................................................................................................................................................ That is very modest, Mr Omtzigt, especially in the Randstad. So don't tell me that if I give you the example of five tons, I'll stand up for the rare Dutchman. If three quarters have three tons then there is a group of five tons that is also Dutch and pays taxes, but the mass has three tons. I have just said what the final levy is at three tonnes in relation to the abolition of the Hills Act. In addition, the supplement, the elderly discount and the income-dependent care premium are added. I'm on it, Mr. Chairman. I come to page 9, the distribution of the Hills deduction. Then we are talking about a million people with their own homes who are covered by the Hills Act to the extent of deduction. Then it turns out that people with a home up to €333,000 make up 80% of the total. So 80% of those million people have a WPA value of up to €333,000. Those are the facts and the hard figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u169	With a lot of questions, we have received a lot of tables. In the reply we received yesterday, we are talking about Table 2 on page 13, and I have noticed that, when it comes to income, 67% of the people affected have a modal income or much less. The largest group, 23.7%, concerns pensioners who have a box 1 income of €15,000 or less. Now I would have liked to know what the power position of those people had been. Shall we pass that question on to the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u170	You could have done the same with your input, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u171	I thank Mrs Leijten for mentioning that table. We didn't get it until yesterday. In the first round I had asked about the distribution of age and the distribution of value but I had forgotten to ask about the distribution of income. We asked them as 50PLUS. I welcome the fact that Mrs Leijten is already giving me the opportunity to mention the table that came up in the second written round. I was really upset about what I read there. I'll read it out for the Acts. Gross box 1 income less than €15,000, which is 232,000 people, 24% of the million. Then the people with an income of €15,000 to €20,000. That includes the AOW and small pension. That is half of the elderly, Mr Omtzigt; AOW and €10,000 supplementary pension. That's another 125,000, another 13%. Then the group from €20.00 to €25,000: 108.000, 11%. And the group from €25,000 to €30,000: 100,000. In total, all people are up to €30,000, with €20,000 AOW and €10,000 supplementary pensions, which have not been indexed for eight years and which are also not indexed over the next ten years. 60% has an income of less than €30,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u172	So we are talking here about an arrangement, which is said to be a couple of tens and we shouldn't be whining about it because it's about people who have redeemed "rich" homes. So we are talking about two thirds of the people who are under or just on fashion, about 555,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u173	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u174	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u175	Thank you for Mrs Leijten's explanation of a figure that I would otherwise mention later, because it contains answers in the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u176	Everyone has those numbers, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u177	Yes. Mr. Chairman. We had also asked about the numbers of the inflow and outflow. "Inflow" is a bit of a technical word for those who are going to fall into Hillen's scheme when they have repaid their debt. The outflow I have to say here is the people over 65 years old, which is 60% of the group of one million people who die humanly within ten or twenty years. That's what I call, technically, the outflow. We have asked what the outflow and influx is and what it would be in the years to come. In this case, the Minister must be able to estimate that inflow on the basis of the financial data. The Tax Office and the Ministry have that information. We had also asked about the outflow. Who's sketching my surprise? One gets no further than giving the outflow and the inflow until 2015. It is remarkable that in 2014 the outflow from 116,000 went to 187,000; that is on page 11, I say for the Secretary of State. I don't know the explanation for this; I haven't had time to ask. The outflow was more or less 100,000 for years, but in 2014 it is 187.000. He is still unknown for 2015. With these figures, it is, of course, absolutely essential that we obtain data on entry and exit for the next 10 and 20 years. With mortality tables, you can safely estimate how many people will eventually die over the next twenty years and thus be at least the victim of this. If the outflow is large, then these people will no longer have a budgetary aspect, if I may put it that way. I do not know what caused the big increase in 2014, but I strongly ask for figures from the years after that, which we had asked for, but now, Mr President, he has not gotten either for the influx or for the outflux. In reply to questions we have asked, I go to page 12 with those tables, which I have already mentioned in reply to Mr Omtzig's words: 5, 6, 7 and 8. I am not going to go into that in detail. I would just like to point out that in Table 8 at the full effect in 2048 I mentioned it as the addition is €1,500 and the effect on disposable income is €554. That's five tons of $924. That's almost a double. I say that because I think that someone who now owns a three-tonne house in Amsterdam in 2048 has a house that is worth at least five tons. And that, Mr. Ommzigt, worries us. People are tacking with the rising WOZ value, given, among other things, the delay of 30 years, in an ever higher WOZ value and thus higher pay off...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u178	Mr. Van Rooijen, I think you've challenged Mr. Omtzigt ten times. I'm glad he's not responding to that. I really think that you are also holding the debate with the government. Mr Omtzigt has yet to get his turn. Then you can interrupt him, but you cannot refer to Mr Omtzigt after every sentence. I would say: go on and leave Mr Omtzig alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u179	I understand. I won't do it for a while, unless there's a new fact on his side, but I'm still triggered...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u180	By Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u181	... because of the fact that he's talking about dimes and I'm talking about hundreds of euros, especially for someone in Amsterdam. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. If that is not to be said here if you are challenged, then there is no real debate. It is better if Mr Omtzigt reconsiders before he says anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u182	Leave Mr. Ommzig alone. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u183	I hear Mr Omtzig asking whether the debate is about him now. I'd say be happy! Then we'll have something together, because then we'll be in the picture together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u184	Continue, Mr. Van Rooijen, and remain seated, Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u185	Mr. Chairman. On page 17, the Secretary of State writes, when he describes the rental value: charges such as maintenance costs have also been taken into account. But, of course, that has not actually been taken into account in a net margin. Of course, older people with older homes in particular suffer a great deal from the non-deductibility of maintenance costs, while young people with new homes obviously do not suffer from this disadvantage. Mr. Chairman. Then we talked about the repayment-free mortgages and the mandatory repayments. I pointed out that the Rabobank indicated that 53% of the mortgages are refund-free. That was also what I said. Beware if you have a refund-free mortgage; you have years to at least not pay off the last installments. Mr Omtzigt already referred to the timetable that goes with it. I hear laughter, but I only support Mr Omtzigt's speech. I think that's appropriate, if there's a reason. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a phrase on page 18 at the bottom that I framed, but I didn't like it. The Secretary of State indicated on 3 November that 58% of those covered by this fine are over 65 years of age. The Secretary of State writes, and now he says: "The members of the 50PLUS group ask whether it is recognised that this measure affects the older part of the population unilaterally. It is true that at the moment the phased abolition of the scheme affects the owners of their own homes, who have (almost) reached the age of AOW. However, the measure cannot be regarded as a measure aimed at the elderly, as has previously been said wrongly." It's been noted. Perhaps the Secretary of State could reconsider this sentence. A measure that directly affects 58% of people over the age of 65, 80% of those over the age of 55 and 90% of those over the age of 50 affects the elderly and not the people under the age of 50 and certainly not those under the age of 40. That's a long way away. Mr President, next item is the report (Doc. On page 19, reference is made to the letter of the Secretary of State dated 3 November, in which the following remark is made again to list, but not with joy: "Many taxpayers who have now reached the AOW age are often subject to a lower marginal rate'. We talked about it this afternoon during the debate on the Tax Plan. After all, these people do not pay an AOW premium. I asked why that remark was made, because we do not think it has anything to do with it. The Secretary of State then says: yes, that remark that the elderly pay less tax and premium was nothing more than a factual observation, which should in no way be seen as a basis for the measure. I had to think about that a few times, but if the workers pay an effective premium of 5% to 10%, you can of course never say: by the way, the penalty is not that bad, because you are not actually paying an AOW premium. After all, the workers hardly pay them either. Mr. Chairman. I've already talked about the behavioral effects at the bottom of page 19, so I can skip that now. Then page 20. I can actually be very brief about that. That's actually the issue again, "Get rid of it quickly, isn't it?'. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the bottom of page 20. You see, I am still working on the non-existent legislative consultation. That is why it also takes so much time, unfortunately, because we sometimes take a whole Monday out for that. That's about 10 or 12 hours. Last year this even went on until deep into the night, when it was about the education deduction and the monument deduction. It's really about something very important right now. It says: a postponement of the Hills Act by a year of the sleeve monkey costs 24 million in structural terms. We've talked about this before. Mr. Chairman. What are we really talking about? Is that the reason why the law is dragging through Thursday night, Friday morning, which also puts the Senate in an almost impossible position? We are talking about peanuts: 24 million structuralally. You've got to dare! dividend tax: 1.4 billion disappears from the treasury to foreign investors and Trump. And here it is said: that law will be pushed through, coûte que coûte, because the Netherlands is going to fail; that costs us 24 million structurally. It's a disgrace! Page 21. It indicates the consequences of this delay. I'm not going to go into that right now. I asked why the abolition of the said regime did not actually take place in 2013 when the mandatory repayment was introduced. If that were such a wrong law and if the mandatory repayment of the Hills Act had actually made it priceless, then we should have known. At the same time, then, we should have proposed fair compensation 'we are going to be obliged to pay off and we believe, because this compulsory repayment will eventually take place, that that is the best argument for abolishing the Hills Act'. They haven't done that in six years. And only because D66 had a hole of 1 billion in the billing and the Minister of Finance in a drawer high on the bend list as one of the top players had said "wet-hillen in the wastebasket," it was handed to D66 on a tray. After all, if you are short a billion dollars and you have to say that to the others, they say: then you can solve that yourself. In this case, Salmon flew back and forth like a carrier pigeon throughout the month of August. Once in his beak, he took the Hills of the Law and put it in place. The other three were off the D66 problem, D66 was off the problem, and it was settled. I'd like to hear if these are the facts or just boud statements. I think it's the first. Mr. Chairman. I hear Mr Omtzig shouting now, but I am not going to respond to that. I wouldn't want to do that anymore. I didn't hear the question either. I remember Mr Rutte, then still a candidate Prime Minister, speaking the day after the presentation of the coalition agreement, on a VVD evening in Etten-Leur. And of course there was some noise in casa, just like four years ago, about the income-dependent care premium. That's what Wiegel and I put an end to in a week, because I said, you don't do leveling through the income-dependent care premium, but through taxes. That's what Wiegel thought, and, just like we're now pulling up together, we've drilled it into the ground and hope that's what's happening here. In Etten-Leur, the Prime Minister said that the proposal was not mine. That is, of course, wonderful, which an upcoming Prime Minister can say as an excuse: there is a common proposal from me, and that is also difficult for my supporters, but it is not me, it was not mine. Like you're getting away with it from your own supporters and your own voters! I find that incomprehensible, but later in March voters in our municipalities will be able to give an opinion on this. Mr President, I have already mentioned the 1.1 billion. "Take what you can get," I wrote. We're getting on a very delicate subject. On page 22 at the bottom, it concerns the existing cases. This subject was also answered in writing in the second round, and I shall come back to that, but I shall start with the first answer and refer to the considerations we had with Minister Hoekstra, the General Financial Reviews. I asked him to make an exception to the fine for the existing cases. I'll explain that, if necessary. Some people had paid off their debts in good faith in recent years, based on good government administration. They had a debt-free right to an exemption from the addition. Those existing cases are covered by the new scheme. There's in the tax... Mr President, there are four of them talking so much that I do not have the impression that they are listening, but they are actually hindering me in my speech and sitting right in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u186	Mr. Van Rooijen, you really need to focus on your own input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u187	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but I find it rather disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u188	That's what you said. I suggest you just move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Existing cases are, therefore, those who have repaid their debts in good faith, but are now affected by the redemption penalty. In fiscal law, and I am entitled to speak, because I became a tax inspector in '65 and went through the fiscal world. I won't tell you what else you can say. It's the biggest curse. Reactive force in tax law is the biggest curse you can think of. I introduced this to Hoekstra, the Minister, with Article 104 of the Constitution. This has come with an amendment to the Constitution, also supported by Laurens Jan Brinkhorst, with a two-thirds majority. Taxes are only levied by law and not by delegation. I will come back to that later tonight in another context. This is retroactivity. The Minister or the Secretary of State can say: yes, but we are going to phase out the existing cases. By the way, that's a terrible word, "phase out." That's what the law is called. His name isn't "scrubbing off." It's called "phase out." Just remember that for a second. We are talking about phasing out the Hills Act, not abolishing it, while, of course, we are talking about abolishing the Hills Act. Reactive force is therefore a curse in tax law. If a new rule does not give people who have respected the law in good faith the legal protection they are entitled to, then you are wrong as a legislator. Then it is up to the Second and First Chambers to give a sharp judgment. In the debate with Minister Hoekstra I asked for an exception for existing cases. He or the Secretary of State said, briefly, that this is not possible. The answer last Wednesday evening also said that it was impossible. That was also somewhat explained, or actually not, when I read it here. The answers given last night, after we had asked them again, contain a more detailed explanation. But we have also asked what is the cost of excluding existing cases from the budget. And who amazes me? I got it right here. We have received from the Ministry of Finance this evening a transfer of our amendments which have not yet been tabled. Moreover, this is in itself a state-law novel: we are now going to talk about the phasing-out of the Hills Act for 15 hours, but the four amendments I asked for are not, of course, two weeks ago, because this has not been on the roll until the end of the week. There aren't any yet. I hope they're there for the second term. Otherwise, I think, Mr President-in-Office, we shall have to suspend the second-term treatment, but that is up to you. I got a bill from Treasury tonight. Fortunately, they are hard at work to give substance to every Member's right of amendment. They have calculated exactly what the consequences are if you exclude the existing cases. It would be impossible, but they can indicate up to 1 million in detail between 2019 and 2042, where it ends, what it costs. It starts with 22 million, and it ends with 125, I believe it's slowly moving on.... with all kinds of numbers, which are 116, 138, 109, to precision. We will, of course, be able to discuss this in more detail, but we will continue to be in favour of the existing cases. I assume that technically the amendment will also be ready tomorrow, for the second time. For us, these existing cases absolutely must be removed. I do not think that the Lower House and the Upper House, the People's Parliament, can say to the people: we are going to abolish a law and anyone who legally fulfilled all the conditions under that law will be caught, albeit in small pieces; in the pieces melon, if I may use a very strange imagery of last week's dividend tax. That is inconceivable for us. And we want the Secretary of State to answer the question as to whether and why this could not be done. If it's not possible, it's a big deal. Then it's very simple: pull in that law. If you are not able to take the existing cases technically out of the law, then this shows that the law is not thoughtful, that it is impossible as such, because you hide retroactive force in it, and then that law just needs to be taken back. Mr President, then there are the increases and the discounts. I have already put it to the House, in connection with Mrs Leijten's speech. So I don't have to repeat those numbers now. I have listed the surcharges up to 2048 and 2060. The declining elderly discount and the currently unknown income-dependent care premium, of which we may not even know tomorrow what each of those 1 million people who are most elderly, 60% who do have to pay the care premium... 600,000 people will know from Friday morning, if that law is accepted here and also in the First Chamber, that they will be paying 6% more care premium. With cash register for the treasury. So I can skip that now. I have already mentioned the value of the World Trade Organisation Amsterdam, the jump from three to five tons. I get a lot of letters about that. The co-workers, too. Mr Schrijver also mentioned this in a very bright speech in Het Parool last week. I have nothing to add. The question I got and which I ask the Secretary of State is whether the estimates mentioned in the annex... We have requested that I find that funny from myself, if I may say so to the average increase in the WWZ value as of 1 January of all provinces in the Netherlands and of the municipalities now they come from Almere, Amsterdam, Breda, Eindhoven, The Hague, Groningen, Nijmegen, Rotterdam, Tilburg, Utrecht, Wassenaar, Bloemendaal and Laren. Now I get letters from people, people from Amsterdam, who say that the figures here about Amsterdam's WWZ increase are not correct, even if you bring in the data of the municipality of Amsterdam. I have not been able to look into this, but I would ask the Secretary of State to check again whether these figures are in line with the figures of the municipality of Amsterdam. And I would very much like him to give an estimate of the increase in the value of the World Health Organization for the years to come for the whole of the Netherlands, for the income groups we are talking about, for the groups of values of 'Ton', 'Ton', 'Ton', 'Ton' and 'Ton' and, therefore, for these areas as well. We asked for those numbers, and we didn't get them. I think that, when we enter the second term, we absolutely need an answer from the Secretary of State on the estimation of the World Health Organisation value for the years to come. We have asked them in the first instance for the next period, up to 2048, on the basis of 3%. We also requested it by 5% until 2025. We didn't get those answers. And in order to make it easier for the Ministry and the Minister, we asked very simply in the second round of questions to give the figures on the basis of 3% for the coming years. We didn't get those numbers either. That doesn't seem so hard to me, does it? You can put a supposed increase of 2%, 3% or 5% into the computer. Finance computers will calculate that flawlessly in no time. Mr President, that was the first written round. I can be much shorter about the answers we got last night. Of course it was difficult, because I had to read them last night while I also had to prepare myself for what I would do here. I shall go through it quickly and incompletely, possibly in second term. Because it's really impossible to keep track of all this. The freule said in the sixties, after a debate until four o'clock in the morning, on the Dam at the monument: this is madness. I would now like to join with you, without referring to any spokesperson. On page 3 of last night's replies, the Secretary of State writes: "The question of the members of the 50PLUS Group or has been considered to reduce the phasing-out of the Hills scheme for existing cases or for low WWZ values, must be answered in the negative." So that is not something that has been thought of. Well, I'd like to help the Secretary of State, because we've thought about that. We have considered the existing cases. There's gonna be an amendment. And we've also thought about the World War II value. After all, we asked what it would mean, also in budgetary terms, if you were to take the first €300,000 as a free foot out of the abolished Hills Act for the calculation of the redemption penalty. But we did not get an answer to that question either. Not that every house above three tons with some sort of trapdoor of the elderly discount is ruined at once. But we propose to say: for everyone in the Netherlands with their own home, we deduct the first three tonnes from the total WWF value. We have asked what the budgetary consequences are and what all the other consequences are. So we did not have those answers, but in relation to the amendment we have... I have to see if that is the case. No, I only have an answer here now about freezing the World Health Organization's rise in value. We still haven't answered the question about those three tons. That's what we're gonna get. So we do not have a first calculation on one amendment. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he would like to comment in his reply on the possibility of getting €300,000 from the World Health Organisation for everyone with their own home, i.e. for 4.3 million people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u190	Are you now asking for an exemption of up to three tonnes, or for the abolition of the total home payment? That's a little unclear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u191	In the light of this proposal, we propose to deduct three tonnes from the WPA value of three tonnes, four tonnes or five tonnes, in the case of the WPA value covered by the discharge. It's up to the Chamber or three tons, or more, or less. That will be included in the debate on the amendments. We have asked for an amendment, in preparation, to deduct three tonnes of free feet from the World Trade Organisation value. I didn't intend to do that at first, because those existing cases weigh even more heavily for me, but I actually came up with the fact that Leo Stevens said something at the hearing. During that hearing, we had a very fundamental discussion about the final objective of the home housing scheme. He said that if your own home would actually go to box 3 then something he's in favour of, you actually don't have any interest deduction anymore. You'll get a capital deduction. But if, for example, your house is underwater, you have two tons of value and three tons of debt. Then there's nothing in box 3. You don't have a ton of interest deduction. He said: in box 3 you should also release the first three tons. I thought that was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u192	Clear. So that is an exemption for the group of people involved: up to 3 tonnes not forfeit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u193	No, not up to 3 tons. That's an option I'm advocating. It is up to the Chamber to decide. Also for people who have a house above 3 tons there will be a deduction of 3 tons. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u194	Well, then I have a question, so I get it. Anyone who owns a property and meets the cases you described doesn't get a flat on the first 3 tons of the property's value?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u195	Yeah, no add-on either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u196	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u197	I may have been unclear. I am talking here about the million people who are covered by the payoff, of course. I'm going to move on quickly, because we've already had the slow or the fast release.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u198	You can't laugh, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u199	Let's see. Yeah, page seven from last night. I have briefly indicated it, but I would like to repeat it. The Bill Hillen said that the rental value was removed from taxable income, from the collection income if you had repaid. That was not the pleasure of the subsequent rulers. In the end, the compromise has been reached that the rental value will be added but that there will be a fictitious deduction for the same amount. It was, as is literally stated here, the deduction due to no or low household debt, a separate deduction equivalent to the positive balance of the EWF and the deductible costs of own home. On the other hand, it is noted that the Court of Auditors has never made an independent assessment of the deduction due to no or low residential debt. Perhaps that should have happened before this cabinet and this Secretary of State made this proposal. It might have been a good idea to ask the Court of Auditors for an evaluation first. I also understand now, on request, that it was a question from the CDA, I believe that there is no intention to carry out an evaluation afterwards. It is now almost common practice to make evaluations by law after three years, but here you have it again: that is not the intention of this law, which is poured into concrete. If accepted, it shall not be evaluated. We had also asked that this was a very common question of ours; I would also say that if this could be included in the key table. Then we get the following answer and I will have to browse for a while, but I do know it out of my mind, even though it was late last night: no, we do not include that in the key table, because until 2048 nothing will be changed. First of all, no one knows. This applies to all parts of the key table. But it is not included in the key table, while dozens of factors are included in the key table. What, I ask the Secretary of State, is the wisdom behind this? I can't detect her. Mr President, I am almost at the end of last night's answers. I have already shared the income picture with you in response to Mrs Leijten's question. Then I'll just peek through to the bitter end. Yeah, that's another really interesting one! I don't know exactly where it is, but I know it by heart. If we ask for the increase in the WZ value, then we get the answer: that is not so relevant, because if that WZ value rises, then more or less automatically, without the word "automatic" there is the percentage for the calculation of the add-on going down. My question to the Secretary of State is: where does it say? How much is that? Is that in an arrangement or does it come up with an arrangement after this law has been accepted? What are the budgetary consequences if that is the case? So my question is... I can see on page 17: it can be concluded that higher WWF values automatically lead to lower EWF rates. That's on page 17 under Table 4, but it's also in another place. I didn't find that automatism anywhere. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State if that's the case. Then we have started the legislative consultation that has not been carried out, at least with the questions on our part. I hope the Secretary of State... Mr. Chairman. I'm getting a pair of glasses.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u200	I don't know where it came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u201	These are propeaq glasses. If you use it every once in a while when you read it, it's a miracle. It's not reading glasses, but it's good for your eyes, and I'm sure it looks fantastic on you. I loaned it to him. I'll think about it. I don't even know if I should. I did bring my own reading glasses if I had to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u202	I thought you might like some tough glasses. But it's not yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u203	No, but I'd like to put it on for the viewers. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to set him up with one of his answers tomorrow. Then we're both a little psychic, and that could lead to solutions that we can't suspect tonight. Mr. Chairman. Then I am through a "block," as is often called by rulers. I'm coming to the hearing last week. I have to say first of all that Mrs Leijten quoted a letter which was also in draft form to me yesterday. I was asked: do you have any comments? Otherwise, you can file it. I then advised her to send that letter to all my colleagues. Mrs. Leijten read that letter. I have nothing to add to that. I have a stack of letters with me myself. Maybe they can or should be discussed later, but I want to start with last week's hearing. I asked for that hearing. I have brought together two groups in good cooperation with Mr Van Weyenberg. I think that has led to a weighted and sound hearing. My picture of this is that the people who felt that this law should be in the Official Journal had at least some reservations about the process, the aspect of trust, the aspect of inappropriate governance and the consequences it has, especially for the elderly with only an AOW and a very small income. Mrs Leijten's example testified to this, but also the letters and examples presented by elderly organisations, such as KBO-Brabant and KBO-PCOB, speak volumes. I noticed from my colleagues that they were impressed by the information given by the elderly organisations, especially my colleagues from the opposition. I noticed from Mr Wiegel's speech that, for his part, he behaved very correctly towards his own party. By the way, I do not mean that he is not correct otherwise. He didn't let himself be tempted and answered as he should. I think Mr Snels asked a question about that. I'm saying that now, but he said in De Telegraaf a week before, "Room, stop the payoff." You know this play. I'll get back to you on that. In particular, I would like to raise Mr Leo Stevens. I also have that text with me. I don't know him by heart, because that's all happening very quickly and no more stenograms are being made, and certainly not very quickly, for which I fully understand. He said, "I think the ultimate goal should be for the house to be in box 3. He also said: you must have a final goal before you can submit another one of these proposals. He called that, by my mind, a "detailed intermediate solution" and said about it: you shouldn't do that if you don't have the end goal in mind. By the way, someone from the Eigen Huis Association pointed out that a few years ago it was said that in 2020 the cabinet, by the Minister of Housing, together with Finance, would do a major study on the tax treatment of their own home, which Leo Stevens said if he had to take a student exam with his professor, he would get a serious insufficient degree; because it is completely incomprehensible to one of the best fiscalists we have in the Netherlands. But he said something else. Stevens not only said it was a detailed interim solution, which made it even more complicated, but he also said the following. I would like to hear the answer from the Secretary of State. Or that is already in the answers from last night, because one of our colleagues asked; I could have done the same. Stevens said the IRS can't implement this law straightforward. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he still wants to explain why, unlike Mr Stevens, he believes that that law is enforceable. Because the last thing this Chamber and I would want is for us to implement a law on top of all the tasks that the Tax Administration already has. I will not mention the names of colleagues who often speak on this subject and whose concerns I share. If it were, that would be an additional reason to withdraw this law immediately. Does the Secretary of State wish to comment in detail on Mr Stevens' speech in his replies, as he did last week? I also ask the Minister, apart from the questions that colleagues have asked about comments made at the hearing, if he would like to look again at the documents that I can also present this evening - the contributions of all the people from the hearing, the questions that have been asked by us and the answers. It is not certain, but in fact that is absolutely basic material which serves to ensure that this proposal is properly considered. Luckily, we had that hearing, but then she has to come to her senses. If I look at these contributions, I shall not go into them at the moment, then I think that those who have contributed should actually get an answer from the Minister of Finance on all these points, because we heard that in the hearing. We do not have the opportunity to go through all this with him, in detail, in a legislative consultation, because then the Secretary of State would have to answer all the questions contained in these contributions. I have had to answer them all here. There is, of course, enough time to go through that with him tonight, tonight and tomorrow morning, but I will leave that alone. I'm actually curious if he's willing to give answers to everything that's been said. If there had been a stenogram, he would have been able to reply to it in a legislative consultation which, if it had been up to us and the opposition, would have taken place after the hearing. Mr. Chairman. If it's all right with you, I'd like to grab a potter for my throat, because that's gonna be a little bit of a problem, but maybe someone else can give it to me. Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to Mr Wiegel's speech. Otherwise, it might be less appropriate at another time. I quote: "Last week was above my column the headline 'Recover trusting task new cabinet'. The cabinet reacted immediately. Even before the declaration of government was made, Rutte III announced his first act. It affects those who paid the mortgage on their house and were rewarded for it (by the Law of the Hills). At the time, the vision behind this was that ownership of the home should be encouraged and that homeowners should not take too high a mortgage. It is not so long ago that the banks not only allowed, but even encouraged, that mortgages were closed higher than the value of the houses. It's dangerous. There is only a reduction in house prices (and this can happen) and the owner is sitting with the noose. Especially those who have to sell their house. Because they got another job or got divorced. Whether or not their other half became unemployed, or even worse, their partner had to lose death. Where did the new cabinet treat the property owners who paid off their mortgage? They're gonna have to pay taxes now anyway. I called it a "loose penance" in a previous column." Before that, I had already called it the payoff. He continued: "Reeds: a lot of use was made of it. A mistake, because at the time government and parliament had the hope and the goal that many Dutch people would pay off their mortgage debt. What happened after recently the new coalition announced its plan? Things started to get a little crazy. Some politicians and the press responded. All sorts of surveys showed great opposition to the plans. What did the new government team do next? He announced that the Hills Act would be abolished not in twenty, but in thirty years. So she understood that there had been considerable criticism among houseowners. The latest news: now it appears that the government is in a hurry to break the tax exemption for a paid house by the parliament. The excuse for this rapid action is that the systems of the Tax Administration need to be adapted in time." The real reason, according to Wiegel, is, of course, that the government wants to get rid of this unpleasant discussion as soon as possible. That does not, by the way, mean the debate we are having here tonight. He talked about the real reason why the government wants to get rid of this unpleasant discussion as soon as possible. He then writes: "That's the trick. A careful Lower House can't let that happen. I hope that the House of Representatives will stop the 'payback' in the course of examining the tax plan. This is also about trust in politics." That was before this bill was dealt with. In other words, he says to the House of Representatives: stop the payoff and reject the Tax Plan. That's what it says implicitly. He continued: "On the eve of the parliamentary debate on the declaration of government, the left-wing opposition came up with a counter-proposal. GroenLinks, SP and PvdA have joined forces. That's fine. The left-hand three are against the VAT increase. The reduction in the tax on profits announced by the cabinet (...)'. Anyway, it goes on for a while. A bit further he writes: "Wednesday and Thursday the House of Representatives debated. First, Prime Minister Rutte made the government statement. That's what he did with verve. A craftsman." Then it's gonna go on for a while. Finally, he wrote: "The Prime Minister stayed up and cheerful all those hours. Greetings!'. But the message of the headline and the content of the article before it was: Chamber, stops the redemption penalty. That fine was still part of the Tax Plan back then. The Potters are in that big bag, Leonie.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u204	I think they're on the table, or do you mean something else? Look, there's something else for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u205	Yeah, I could have a grape sugar, but it was more of a potter. Coming up! Mr. Chairman. We had a legislative consultation on 30 October and we had the General Financial Reviews. We also had a debate with Prime Minister Rutte on the dividend tax. I started my contribution during that debate with the payoff. As one of the journalists said, it is like Mrs Thieme, who speaks for the Animal Party, and who always highlights a certain aspect. That journalist had flawlessly noticed that from now on 50PLUS will raise the penalty regularly, because next year the law will come into force if it is adopted, but not yet implemented, as it is called in official language. The first addition is only in the provisional attack in December next year. That brings me to the next point. What are we even talking about? Are the systems of the Tax Administration in the Netherlands in charge of when something enters or is that a cabinet in consultation with parliament? In that first legislative consultation, the Secretary of State says, to my surprise, but not to all colleagues, that the systems of the Tax Administration, as I know from the execution tests, need fifteen and a half months. Then the cabinet, or the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State for Finance, could have calculated that if that law is treated properly and you need fifteen and a half months to bring that law into force but above all to implement it, you simply don't let that law enter into force in 2019, but in 2020. If the law enters into force in 2020, you won't have to add anything in the provisional attacks of December next year. In terms of one of our colleagues, this is a couple of dimes, but it's a couple of tens. If that law does not go through, then you should correct it in the final attack. That means that the tax authorities would have to carry back all those 4 million in preliminary attacks. That's what I want and none of us want to do to the IRS. But then don't turn it around. Then do not say: we only want to impose provisional attacks where the penalty is already in place for the first blow, and so that law now has to be passed in a week or two. Then I say: do not do that to the provisional attack and to the citizen in December. Just wait until this law is dealt with properly and then it just goes in in 2020. I assure the Secretary of State and also the Minister that 50PLUS will provide 24 million structural cover. I would like to know from the Secretary of State and the Cabinet why this simple solution has not been devised in advance and cannot be considered. I think that's still too weak. Why isn't he willing to just do that? Come up with a proposition. The Tax Administration has to prepare it properly and we'll postpone the entry, the effect of the law for a year. That will, of course, also be the position of 50PLUS in the final examination of the draft law. Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I am going to go to the contribution I made in the first legislative consultation on the redemption penalty. The Secretary of State announced on 30 October that seven amendments would be included in the letter of amendment. Of course, we were curious about that. He said that there was also the abolition of the Hills Act. That is also stated in the Acts of Consultation. That scared the hell out of me. At that time, to the surprise of some of my colleagues, I made my contribution in this first legislative consultation to a proposal that was neither a letter of amendment nor a draft law. The colleagues and also the chairman who led the committee could have said: Mr Van Rooijen, you are out of order. However, the President and his colleagues could not fail to see that this could be a relevant input, although I had to deliver it at the beginning, because everyone knew that there might be a letter of amendment on this point. The Secretary of State confirmed that at the very beginning. We didn't know then that this was going to be a separate bill. At that time, I held half of my speech on dividend taxation. I have respected the fact that my fellow Members were not satisfied with it and did not hold the second half of my speech. Nor have I had the chance to keep it, because the second legislative consultation was about the questions about the proposals that were there. I suggested to my fellow Members that if I did not talk in the first consultation about a proposal which, by the way, was not there, I was sure that if it were there I would not have the chance to talk about it carefully. If I put it briefly and clearly, it is this: I was speaking for my turn about a proposal that is not there, because I was sure that I would not then have the opportunity to talk about a proposal if it was there properly in a legislative consultation. I was not psychic, but I was right: the legislative consultation did not come. Mr President, I shall now read out the substance of that speech. "Officially, the House of Representatives doesn't know anything about it yet" I haven't read this back, but when I read it now, I'm afraid of what I'm going to read out myself, and we can't deal with it in substance. However, I would like to speak about it now, because there is hardly any time to talk about it after submission.' "The 50PLUS Group now wants to know what awaits us in the coming weeks and, yes, even in the coming days. When will the letter and therefore the amendment be made?" After all, I didn't know anymore. "Is the proposal for the final second legislative consultation on 6 November? Is that still timely? Or is there a need for a third legislative consultation on the letter of amendment? We are in favour of this." These are all still questions. "How else should written preparation with questions and answers be planned in a timely and careful manner? The plenary debate is scheduled for 14, 15 and 16 November. Or is that gonna be later?" "Nevertheless, a hint of the veil has already been lifted. What do we know?" At the end of the first Council of Ministers at the end of that Council of Ministers, the Minister of Finance had also spoken, who had of course read my letter the day before, and we were told the following through the media. I quote the ANP message: "The payback for property owners will not be introduced until 2019, as stated in the government agreement. However, the cabinet is already starting to prepare the so-called law Hillen because the Tax Administration needs extra time for it, according to the Secretary of State that afternoon after the Council of Ministers." He was quick to get there, as you can see. "The cabinet has therefore taken the first step towards abolishing the Hills Act, which provides for housing owners who have or have almost repaid their mortgage to benefit from a tax advantage." The government is moving forward, as was said that Friday afternoon, because systems of the Tax Administration need to be adapted. Thank you the cuckoo! We all knew that. I said, "So that's a misdemeanor. I'll explain that." Here's what I said. "I've never heard such an excuse. Every year, yes every year, the First Chamber has to hurry to complete the Tax Plan with some implementation changes before the turn of the year, sometime in mid-December." And woe to you, the Senate once said, if the Cabinet has taken final measures before the Senate itself has made its final judgment! That sin was never committed after that. That is why mid-December is the decisive date. The Tax Administration then has two weeks to take charge of the execution. "The Hills Act will take more than a year, but the Hills Act doesn't cover an A4't yet." It's one half page; I've already shown it twice in this room. "It's just a simple law. However, the tax computers would take a year to process it. Can the government not think of a better excuse or can it simply admit that it is afraid of the voice of the people, since next March there will be municipal elections, there will be elections for the Provincial States a year later and both will be of great importance for the distribution of seats in the Senate?' This first step is already a false start. The fresh Minister Hoekstra also did a good job in the bag by noticing in jargon I didn't know the word, but I was also a little less aware apparently that this is the normal cadence. "The proposals will be incorporated into the start note.......................................................................................................................................................................................................... I have some procedural points. What is the content, as I asked, of the start note and when exactly is it coming? Two. What happens to the Hills Act? Is there going to be a proposal for abolition? If so, is it in the form of a letter of amendment or a separate legislative proposal? I would like to point out that the Hillen Act was drawn up at the time by means of a separate legislative proposal, which is the term used in the Hoekstra motion. According to the 50PLUS Group, this means that the abolition of the Hills Act, the repeal of the law, must also be regulated by a separate legislative proposal. That is not only the opinion of my group, but also, in general, the unanimous position of the Upper House. Omineus stated that position in the Hoekstra motion, No. 34300 under O of Otto, which was accepted unanimously in November 2015. The Hoekstra motion was co-signed by me. There's no getting away from it. This cannot be any different, as I said at the time, than that a proposal on the Hills Act should be considered in the light of this motion. The cabinet, Minister Hoekstra and Secretary of State Snelly are obliged to carry out this motion. 50PLUS considers it an independent proposal within the meaning of the Hoekstra motion. This is all the more so because in this case there is a proposal which starts only a year later. That was also stated in the Hoekstra motion, because the mixed box 3, which was opposed by the CDA group mordicus, had been inserted into the tax plan under the VVD and PvdA cabinet, but that measure would only take effect a year later. So that too was a relevant aspect. Concrete reasons for the Hoekstra motion were not only the mixing and messing up of an independent political proposal on box 3, but also the fact that it would only start a year later. In my opinion, there was no reason at that time to raise the issue of the box 3 proposal for a year. Therefore, Mr Trefender cannot be more similar to this proposal. Finally, my third question was: does the Secretary of State agree with us? I'd like a clasp-and-ready answer. I asked what the meaning of the word "prepare." It gives the impression that it is merely preparation. Preparing is linguistically different from submitting a final proposal for consideration and approval by the Lower House in the next two weeks under the Tax Plan 2018. Or am I wrong about that? I'd like an answer. Could there be a letter of amendment here? For the time being, I believe that this is not a matter of a change of state law, but of a new proposal, which should be dealt with as such and cannot therefore be part of the 2018 Tax Plan. "Amendment" means that it is a change from an existing proposal that has already been tabled. My final question at that time was: was the letter of amendment submitted to the Council of State for opinion? When did this happen and when is this advice expected? I will return to the Council of State; not everyone will be surprised. Let me now turn to the content of the proposal to be expected, although we do not yet know it. The Secretary of State will be formal, but at least my group does not, because of the enormous importance of the proposal and the urgency of the matter. I would point out the extremely short time for the necessary thorough treatment. After all, this is a burden increase of no less than 1.1 billion for people who have repaid or almost repaid their mortgage. Moreover, it affects a relatively small group of owners of their own home. It amounts to a small million out of a total number of housing owners of 4.3 million, a quarter. That group should pay the extra tax of over a billion. I thought that was a hell of a scandal back then, and I still do. Much more than half of that group consists of elderly people who have lived economically to enter their old age without a mortgage debt. It would be 500,000 elderly people. I also indicated, and later in more detail, for what reasons and under what circumstances, the elderly in particular, were doing everything possible to get rid of that debt. I am saying here on the basis of examples I have: they have done so, in particular, by abandoning holidays that apply to people between 60 and 65, but also to people aged 65 and over and by having a car repaired later or not buying a car. In other words, they have done everything they can to bring the fixed mortgage charges, interest and redemption back to zero. This is what they did when they retired to a low retirement pension; we have heard the examples of not having a fixed burden on the home, knowing that health care costs would also rise sharply. KBO-PCOB, as I said at the time, even talked about two thirds of those 1 million people being elderly. Turns out it's a little lower. Initially, it has already been forgotten, the burden increase was 1.4 billion. That is another serious indication of what we are talking about tonight. That was before it was decided to cut the house by 20%, from 0.75% to 0.6%. I referred to the proposal for the abolition of the Hillen Act as a 'loose penalty' shortly before the coalition agreement was announced. That word has now become a winged concept, not least because it indicates exactly what it is: a fine on paying off the mortgage. People are angry, outraged, furious because they think it unfair and unjust that people who were asked to pay off their mortgage should be punished instead of rewarded. The exemption from the addition was promised and laid down in the law. They thought that was for sure and they would stay. It's a fine, a penalty on redemption. The aim of the Hillen Act was to promote redemption by no longer applying an addition to the income after repayment. I say it again, also to the viewers and listeners: that is all it is about. That is completely forgotten, with retroactive effect, which makes it even worse and sadder. According to the explanatory memorandum, the reasons for the proposal were mainly: to ensure that older people would be better able to pay the rising costs of care later on. Older people have started to relieve with the prospect of no addition and have lived economically for that purpose. I already gave it to you: the car, the holiday and so on. So careful are most of the elderly who have experienced the poverty of shortly after the war, people with now mostly an AOW and a small pension but fortunately with their own, relieved home. I was born in 1942. I remember from the war that my parents, by the way, with a rental house, had a cash box in which the receipts were to pay for the daily food and other expenses. I don't have those receipts anymore. I'm sorry I don't have them. But that's how old people are who don't want to be in debt right now when they retire. That's how they were at the beginning of the war. It was my parents, and it was our parents, who were 20 or 30. And the next generation has taken that economy. They were allowed by the Hillen Law to repay the debts. As a result, the State also had a much less budgetary burden on interest rates, because the debt was repaid and the interest charges were no longer there either. So they also literally supported the treasury. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to answer that again. I can't make it better for the Treasury and the IRS. Hillen really had a vision: to be sparing for the future. The Hills Act has done an excellent job and still does. The law thus still fulfils the objective set. It is cynical that this law, which works well, should be abolished. As I said, Rutte called the day after the coalition agreement at a VVD meeting in Etten-Leur that the law would be too expensive. He didn't support that, by the way. But he had not invented the abolition himself; it did not come from him. Excuse me. I do not think he knows what he is talking about, because that is not proven in the documents either. The first one that spins yarn at accelerated redemption is the treasury. After all, the deduction of mortgage interest has fallen sharply, as I said, and continues to fall if the Hillen Act were to remain in force. Then who made up this proposal? I referred earlier to the bill abolishing the Hills Act as the "Rutte-Bumatax" and pointed out that it was a night-to-night robbery, because it was sneaked out in the 2018 Tax Plan, by letter of amendment, rather than a separate legislative proposal. Actually, the House of Representatives has already checked. And the First Chamber already has that, because it can't amend it. It can only reject the entire Tax Plan. There was still a letter of amendment at the time and not a separate legislative proposal. In other words, I had a discussion there about something that I thought was there, just not yet on paper. Later it appeared, because of us, that a completely different monkey came out of the sleeve, but it was no better than the first monkey out of the sleeve. It was rather a nasty other rabbit from the hat. Then you would say: that Tax Plan would still be conceivable in that case, because it was a policy-poor Tax Plan. That will be very exciting: Minister Hoekstra, who would have to fight his own motion and would not want to implement it. After all, during this night-to-night robbery, the cabinet is assured of the 76 votes of the coalition engine block, which will vote blindly in the polling room for abolition with a simple, united hand. Rutte III's first dictation was then won. That's gonna be an embarrassing show on November 23rd, I said. Please note that memorable day. This is where state history is written. A legalized theft with a charge of more than one billion over the back of no less than 1 million owners of their own home, of which much more than half are elderly. You gotta have the guts. But the framing of the wealthy elderly, and of the elderly who do not go to the Malieveld, again does his work after Rutte II under Rutte III. Older people are desperate victims to politics. What parties still stand up for this group of 3 million people? Politics, and that is the mean thing, knows that older people, for whatever reason, do not come to Malieveld with buses. That's perfectly understandable. When we talk about the education problem, the teacher deficit and the administrative burden on teaching staff, we wholeheartedly support all actions. There was a meeting at the old ADO stadium. They thought there would be a few thousand people, but there were tens of thousands. It's great for our kids to get that education. 50PLUS had, moreover, been one of the few parties to its programme to abolish the loan system. That was also the reason that 600 students were present in the election campaign in Leiden. Of these, dozens came to me afterwards, boys and girls, who said: Mr. Van Rooijen, we have filled out the StemWijzer and we come to the Party for Animals and 50PLUS, because you have in your programs the environment and the abolition of the loan system. I just said it. The myth that we only stand up for the elderly is not true at all. We stand up for our children and grandchildren. When I was President of the Pensioners, I already told you that in two hearings on the pension system. And I will continue to do so. We stand up for our children and grandchildren. It's in the Acts now. The Malieveld. Old people don't go there, and politics knows it flawlessly. They also know that if this is pushed through in two days' time, the elderly will have to accept it as lame sheep. The Second Chamber is in the words of Vondeling lamb or lion. I'm standing here like a lion, which, by the way, I am. My daughter is even a double lion, so you've been warned. The Rutte III cabinet has already been referred to by the 50PLUS Group as the anti-elderly cabinet, by my group chairman in the presentation of the coalition agreement. He was furious, and with him the whole fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u206	Proceed, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u207	I'm just gonna say it again. The cabinet of Rutte III was previously called the anti-elderly cabinet by the 50PLUS group. That is already supported by the facts on the first day when we are talking about the abolition of the Hills Act. Not only Rutte II but now also Rutte III sees elderly people as second-class citizens, who have to pay for the acid but are not allowed to enjoy and share in the sweet. It is a statement that my group chairman has often used in this House. It is a fine phrase, by the way, which Prime Minister Balkenende used at the time, I believe, was not yet Prime Minister in the campaign. First share in the acid and then share in the sweet. The workers now share in the sweet and the elderly continue to pay and share in the acid. If you say, "What makes you say that?', I can make a big argument about that. I am not doing that at the moment, but we already mentioned the 5 billion tax cuts this afternoon, structuralally. In ten years, that's 50 billion and in twenty years, you can count on 100 billion. That goes to the workers. The elderly receive a one-off, temporary increase in the elderly discount of 140 million net. You'll have to dare. Older people are second-class citizens. They do share in the acid, but not in the sweet. When there were 50 billion increases under Rutte I in the time of the financial crisis, 50 billion were cut. That was three fifths of tax increases, by the way. Of course, the elderly have contributed to this. That's how old people are. They're in solidarity. If sacrifices are demanded from everyone, there is none of the elderly who says: but we are not! With regard to the 2% VAT increase, you have not heard anyone from the elderly. We have contributed to this together with all workers and everyone else. After that, there is room for burden relief, the notorious 5 billion. These infamous 5 billion were dragged away for the gates of hell in the Senate, because Rinnooy Kan, after Pechtold's veto in the Lower House, supported that reduction after a faint novel. But the elderly had no part in it. So you can pay for the acid, not share in the sweet. The exemption of the home forfait is now taken away as well, on top of that. It keeps going. I have already given that whole list this afternoon, by the way. The proposal for phasing-out is accepted with a long transitional period, but, as I said at the time, that is a tissue for bleeding. It is a kind of make-up that cannot conceal the harrowing nature of the proposal. He's a pubess. Moreover, people know that politics can shorten the transition period again from 30 to 20 years or even 10 or 5 years. I only have to refer to the reduction in the transitional period when the rate at which mortgage interest can now be deducted is reduced. That's not somewhere in a distant past. That's the start of Rutte III; right. Two days after I called out that the payoff is a scandal in the AD on Saturday night, it's in a footnote at the request of 50PLUS. I was on the racing bike with Door Exercise Flink, which is the bicycle club of the bike I have here. I got a call from the General Daily. They asked: Mr Van Rooijen, do you have any comments on the leaked payoff story? They actually said the abolition of the Hills Act. Then I said: I do not want to answer that, because we agreed with the group that we should respond neatly on the day of the coalition agreement. Then I called Henk, Henk Krol our chairman, and said, "Henk, I think I have to answer that lady from the AD, Deborah. I called her back. She was in the car. I came from the shower. I grabbed a piece of paper and read three sentences that were on the A.D. an hour later on Saturday night. That was the most read part of that weekend. And what happened right after that? Wiegel took over that whole thing. And in a radio broadcast from Radio 1 the next day, on Monday, he literally said: I agree 100% with Mr Van Rooijen. We hadn't been in touch about that. You won't be surprised. A promise of 20 and now even 30 years, as I said a few weeks ago on October 30, has the value of a fart in a net. That's what the media's gotten. That's an expression of PvdA foreman Jaap Burger at the time. There is a great deal of anger among the people about a proposal that is not even there yet and will not go into it for another year. Then why is this being done, as my group is wondering. With the attack on the payoff, 50PLUS planted a bomb that the cabinet wants to disassemble as soon as possible with a view to the elections of the municipal councils in March 2018. Tomorrow that's almost today they're already taking place in Leeuwarden and in Southwest Friesland. Like I said, everybody vote. I hope so. It is a bomb that we have laid and which must be dismantled in view of the elections, preferably within two weeks. 50PLUS............................................................................................................................................................ The extension from 20 to 30 years was a terrible knee bow for 50PLUS, in a footnote. The resistance in the VVD and CDA successors should not last too long and not increase further. It's bad enough, that's what I notice every day. I'm just gonna stay out of it a little bit. I'm not gonna name any names or read letters from those people either. Moreover, the abolition of the Hills Act in the '19 Tax Plan in November '18, shortly before the elections of the Provincial States, would be completely suicide, with only a majority of one seat in the Senate. That perspective must already be an abomination for VVD and CDA in particular. 50PLUS concludes that the new cabinet is already afraid of the voter. Everything is political, I'd like to say. In this case, the Hills Act is the victim. The payoff is a broken election vow around its own home. The great importance of the 2003 Hills Act is that politicians and legislators chose citizens. The proposed abolition of the Hillen Act is a reflection of the treasury alone and no longer of the citizen. That's the most worrying thing about the payoff. I would like to highlight the following aspects. It's damaging the public. A relatively small group is responsible for the tax reduction of a large group. After all, the home forfait was reduced to compensate the people who received less tax deduction for debts. The lower interest deduction was thus fully compensated by a reduction in the rent margin. What happens for the people who are not in debt? They will not be compensated for paying the ransom. The people in debt are fully compensated as a group with 600 million burdens and 600 million benefits. The people who were not in debt and thought that they would not get an addition, will be paid the ransom. I referred to it as an unreliable government, inappropriate administration, violation of trust and arbitrariness. What are the calculations underlying the proposal? We didn't know that at all, and we only know that in part. There is discrimination between debt-free mortgages, whereby the redemption can be postponed, and mortgages with compulsory redemption where this is no longer possible. How can you defend that? And, Mr President, last but not least, what are the consequences for the housing market? They haven't been taken into account. I'll ask the Secretary of State what those consequences are. One of the things that I do not understand is that I do not understand much of this proposal, as it has become clear in the last few hours, is that there is no mention of the impact on the housing market. I haven't been able and I haven't had time to get into that. I'll definitely do that afterwards. I have a year to do that until we deal with the next tax plan. Then everything will be dealt with again. In the coming weeks and early next year, I will look into the impact of this proposal on the housing market. It is unbelievable that in two weeks' time the Chamber is going through a proposal, as Wiegel calls it, in which nobody is calling attention to the impact on the housing market. We did that with one sentence, but we got a non-answer. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to discuss this in detail tomorrow. The cabinet has started fresh. There are a lot of rulers, with hysterical double occupancys. Unfortunately, finance does not have three rulers; I would have liked to have three there. In my day, there were three of them. Now we have three ministers in some ministries. Finance must do it with one minister and a poor secretary of state, who has the toughest job of the entire cabinet on his shoulders. In addition, I wish him a great deal of strength, as one of my successors. This is indeed a hustle and bustle. I said I'd start with the importance of my own home. Its own house is to live in. It has been said before, at least by some. It's property, but it's not wealth, and it's certainly not free capital. The question is whether our own house should be defiscalized. That is a terrible word, which means that it should be taken entirely out of income tax. As long as the home is part of the income tax, the threat of an ever heavier tax on the home remains and the rent value is a game of politics. For example, there is a plea to even tax one's own home as just free power and thus transfer it to box 3; I told you so. We believe that at least two thirds of the free value should be taken into consideration. For us, a proposal, an amendment, is in preparation to limit the housing capital, which is based on the WPA value, to two thirds of that value. Initially it was 60%, but it will be two thirds of the World Health Organization value. I would like to point out that the house fee is a balance provision, in which the previously deductible maintenance costs are included in the so-called net payment. Older homes often have higher costs. The own house is a toy of politics. The house should be safe, but it's not. Appointments about their own home are changed by politics with an instant. It is a political game: who can play the fiscal buttons? Rutte has given a remarkable justification for the payoff: we must abolish the Hills Act because otherwise too much use is being made of it. Do you hear what he's saying? We must abolish the law because it is being used too much in accordance with the intention of the legislator. It's gonna be too expensive, which he doesn't support, by the way. That is quite short, because you should also think in cohorts, for example; I mentioned it earlier with the figures on the inflow and outflow, which we do not have for the future. Older people who now benefit from the scheme have died in 20 years and at least in 30 years. For the Minister of Finance, "caterpillar-never-satisfaction" applies: now the Hills Act has to be removed. As far as the dividend tax is concerned, caterpillar can easily spare 1.4 billion, but the penalty must be paid. Under all circumstances, the Hills Act will never be abolished. Rutte doesn't really know what he's talking about when he says this. That is what he says to the breathless listeners at that VVD meeting; I have already said it. For owners in 30 years' time, ladies and gentlemen, those are not the elderly of today, but those are our children, the starters are going to take the mercy of the complete addition at often the highest rate. That's also an anomaly. This brings me back to my own field of expertise; I have to say it anyway. It is of course crazy that the flat rate is immediately taxed at the low rate or the high rate, but that the deduction for interest can only be at the low rate. What VVD fiscalist advised the Prime Minister of this? It's definitely fiscal acrobatics. There's absolutely no way to defend it. Income, even fictitious income, taxing on the progressive rate and the deductions........................................................................................................................................................................... I know what I'm talking about. The Dutch have faith in politics, but no confidence in the cabinet, I said at the time. The VVD has violated several electoral promises, for example on mortgage interest rates, and can now be satisfied with "sorry." The Rutte cabinet is now surprised by a new, far-reaching measure in terms of the mortgage interest deduction, that is to say. The rate of reduction of the rate at which interest can be deducted is greatly accelerated. This is a fundamental violation of the Rutte II agreements with a much longer phasing-out period; proof that political agreements do not exist, at least not worth much. Worse is that this Rutte III intervention is sometimes received with understanding, which in our view means nothing other than that politics is increasingly committed to this fiscal arbitrariness, this tombola and this turbulent behaviour. However, the tumult of the pay-off, the abolition of the Hills Act, now shows that there are limits to fiscal accommodation and trick boxes. People are angry, sometimes furious. Maurice de Dog's poll of that time, before this weekend's poll, already showed that the supporters of all parties gave a negative score, while the consequences are only gradually noticeable. People know that the consequences of this law are gradual. Then how is it that they're so angry and angry about this law? That is very simple and I want to make that quite clear here. That's why I'm standing here in front of the citizen. It is very well aware that there has been a loss of confidence and a loss of good governance. The citizen assumes that if he complies with a law that says he has to repay his debts, he will no longer receive an addition. He does, but now he sees a line through it. It is surrounded by a lot of patches and painkillers, but the citizen is unfailingly aware that politics is taking a stroll with the awakened confidence and good governance. Maurice de Dog's score in that poll was -23% for all parties. CDA, PvdA, SP stand at -25%, PVV at -51%, FvD at - 61%, 50PLUS surprisingly highest with -77%. These staggering figures can only be explained by the fact that this is perceived as a breach of trust, that one sees it as an unreliable government and inappropriate administration. There are also serious doubts about the political sustainability of the 30-year transition period. Of course, people aren't crazy. The citizen is not crazy and has flawlessly noticed that if the transition period with a footnote can go fast, in an evening from 20 to 30 years, he can just as easily return to 20, 10 and 5 years. There is no guarantee; no one here will be able to give it. I heard someone in the debate this afternoon say that he was sure that it would just last 30 years. He must then become Minister of Finance, declare this under oath and remain Minister for a very long time. Of course, that doesn't help us at all. The game with these deadlines sees politics as proof of untrustworthyness, of which the citizen and not the system are victims. Politics adopted the Hillen Act in 2003 with the support of D66, VVD, CDA, SGP and LPF, Room 29209. Three parties, D66, VVD and CDA, are part of this coalition. How do they intend to implement a law that they fully supported with the SGP and LPF at the time? From the SGP, I understand that they are critical, but we will hear that later in the debate. But how do D66, VVD and CDA manage to get rid of the law they have introduced themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u208	Mr Van Rooijen is now cutting my feet off, even the conclusion I draw at the end of my speech. I have serious objections to that. I thought the wording was rather mild, I can tell you, for a few hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u209	Mr Van Rooijen has 12 hours to speak. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u210	I have merely noted that the SGP voted in favour at the time and that I have the impression that they understand, at least until now, and let me say it carefully in relation to the problems that are being raised today and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u211	If I still have my first term, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u212	Thank you. The thrust of my comment was nothing more than that. Excuse me for having a licorice in my mouth. It may facilitate speaking rather than hindering, but I am not sure whether the listener or viewer will agree. It is seen as proof of untrustworthyness and I mentioned the vote at the time. But the Ministry of Finance has from the beginning in 2005... "the Minister" I must say now. The Minister and the Secretary of State have done everything in their power to abolish the Hills Act from the outset in 2005. It was high in the charts hit parade every four years. And what does the Rutte III cabinet do with the same three major parties VVD, CDA and D66? They simply abolish the Hills Act with a crummy foundation. It wasn't in any of those three parties in the election programs. Large-scale electoral deception. In addition, the 1.1 billion proceeds work as an attractive lady: too good to be true. That's a billion more available space for beautiful things. I was talking about sealing a hole in a program. But over the 30-year period it is a burden increase of 15 billion, half of 30 times 1 billion. In 2060 the payoff was 25 billion. I indicated that that is about half of what the treasury is going to lose by abolishing the dividend tax. That's a thinker, repeatedly said. For example, 25 billion has been raked in through the redemption penalty. The loot is easily inside for the treasury. The consequences for the citizen are ignored and for calculations and bubbles this is reduced to almost nothing. For example, with the value of a property in the Randstad of €500,000, I said at the time I shouldn't have said it then, I understood this is an addition of €3,000, 0.6% of €500,000. That's fictional income. That has a terrible additional effect, I said at the time. That fictitious income can have an impact on the care and rent allowance. They could be significantly lower. Some of my colleagues were already fighting that remark, but I was flawlessly right. I did not mention the old age discount at the time, but I did later and I mentioned the care premium. The question is, of course, who came with it? Speculative: it may have been a proposal from the Minister of Finance, but it may have been the carrier pigeon Salmon. It then works in such a way that those who reject the abolition of Hillen at the negotiating table will have to come up with a better proposal. I remember how that went before, or the negotiating coalition group has a billion bigger problem. No one's hungry for that, the guts for that, so that's cat in the box: delete with the law Hillen. People don't understand that it's a burden increase and talk about taking... Well, it's coming, Mr. Chairman; I think that's the worst of it. This is called the withdrawal of a subsidy. I called it a payoff. There is now a whole frame going on here and also in the media that I seem to have misunderstood, because this is simply taking away a tax gift, from a tax advantage, even for rich people. That sounds good. It's not that. It's a burden increase. It's a fine on a redemption that the law said you wouldn't be fined for. Indeed, the interest rebate could be called a tax subsidy, a tax issue. But that does not apply to the addition of the flat rate for people who have never had a mortgage or who have properly repaid, so that they do not benefit or no longer benefit from that interest rate subsidy and also the State no longer costs tax money. The exemption from the flat is not a subsidy, but the recognition that the home is not a tax object when it comes to a home without a mortgage. But for those who are not in debt, the addition is introduced, so in fact increased. This is an absurd contradiction and discrimination. It is remarkable that people who are in debt should not be penalised and that people without debt should and should be disadvantaged, as I said in the same Rutte III government agreement. The citizens also feel that the people who have relieved have to pay for the reduction of the debt for the people in debt. And that makes them even more angry. 50PLUS will present an amendment at the appropriate time not to abolish the dividend tax. This provides structural 1.4 billion coverage. There's also a motion from Krol that's been held. Failure to abolish the Hilling Act will cost 25 million in 2019, rising to over 100 million in 2021. Please note: dividend tax 1.4 billion from 2009 not every year. And over the next three years of this cabinet period, it will, in the end, yield a structural amount of 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u213	You will notice that there is some noise in the room. This has to do with repetitions, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u214	Yes, Mr. Chairman, you're right. I'll keep an eye on it. But that's because I'm reading the text from back then. I will take that into account from now on, but sometimes it is good to make something clear, which I have the impression is still against deaf ears for some people. Repetition is the only force you have left, but it's not intentional. You're absolutely right about that. I have already indicated that we would be preparing amendments. I shall come back to that later in a subsequent speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u215	Are you all right, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u216	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u217	Are you okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u218	Yeah, I'm fine, my voice is just getting a little heavy, but my condition isn't, at least not right now. We've had the General Financial Reviews. I started that debate with the write-off, Article 104 of the Constitution. Taxes of the Empire are levied in force of a law. Other taxes of the Empire are regulated by law. I referred to the fundamental principle of no taxation without representation. And I referred to Anne Vondeling's book on task, method of working, power and powerlessness of the Dutch Parliament. I also referred to the Hoekstra motion. I have criticized the Council of State. The House of Representatives often operates too politically and in a hurry. Then the First Chamber and the Council of State remain, so I spoke, as beacons of care and monitoring of the quality of legislation. In my view, the Council of State operated with the discharge now itself sloppy and hastily and at the expense of...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u219	That is also what you said, Mr Van Rooijen. Extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u220	Yes, Mr President, but I must point that out again in the course of the examination of the draft law, because the Council of State replied by returning mail on the day the request came. I will not add anything else, but this fact is important in the assessment of a draft law. As a draft bill for consideration and the Council of Ministers sends it to the Council of State on 1 November...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u221	That's what you called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u222	Yes, Mr President, but that has to be said again in this debate. In another debate it was even improperly introduced by me because it did not necessarily have to be discussed there, but at least it belongs in this debate. I think I should be able to say that one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u223	But you also said that in this debate. That's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u224	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u225	Yes, you've gone into the Council of State extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u226	I take note of your comment, Mr President, and I will also remain silent. Then I'll skip that bit; that's what I've had. The core of the point has been mentioned. Then I'll continue with the hearing. I have spoken about this somewhat in general terms. I read out Mr Wiegel's paper. I won't quote that entirely, but I'll tell you what the core was. The government has decided to abolish the Hills Act and put forward a proposal to this effect to Parliament. The exemption of the home forfait is taken away. In popular terms, it's called "payback." He goes into the long term and says that it runs counter to the policy pursued by the previous cabinet to promote home ownership, to counter over-mortgage, etc. So at least there must be a separate draft law for this, that is what he wrote at the time. He referred to this again in the debate last week. Mr. Chairman. KBO-PCOB and KBO-Brabant have indicated in parts that have been submitted there, but also in examples that have been mentioned during the treatment, that older people with an AOW and a small pension are disproportionately affected by this proposal. If I sum up briefly, there were comments in the vein of: if you have an AOW with a very small pension, you can't even pay the couple of euros or that ten or that 20 euros, then you have to cancel the newspaper and deny yourself other expenses. The examples were even more poignant. Mrs Leijten also said something about it. When you hear that in a hearing like this, you wonder again what notion the Chamber takes of such a hearing. The image is called up that everyone would be okay with abolishing that law. Some thought it was a little too soon, talked well with the transitional arrangements, and yes, it might have been a bit of inappropriate governance and a betrayal of trust, but it has to be. My picture of that hearing is a whole different one. There was a balanced representation, in my opinion. To Mr Van Weyenberg, too, we have drawn up the list together. The tax union man, the tax expert, was very clear. The representative of Association Eigen Huis was very clear. The ladies of the elderly unions were very clear. A lady from KBO-Brabant is an ex-tax inspector and she knows from experience and from letters and e-mails she received, how distressing this problem is. I've already talked about Wiegel. I was struck by the speech by Leo Stevens, who is actually a clear supporter of the abolition, but I have already mentioned so many objections; I will not repeat them: he felt that this was not a good step. I said something about De Nederlandsche Bank and the planning agency. I always find it shocking to hear... I'm very clear about that, too. I have great respect for the independence of De Nederlandsche Bank. I have great respect for the independence of the planning agency. But the representative of the planning agency did not go beyond the fact that this law, because it runs for three years, has been incorporated into the purchasing power charts for a fifteenth. That's a fifteenth I still understand, but they're really not in the purchasing power picture. If you've read the answers from the planning agency correctly, the planning agency itself says they're not in it. And I have a lot of trouble with what the representative of the DNB said. He said that the Hills Act should never have been there, and it is therefore very good that it should be abolished. The word "citizens" and the consequences for citizens were not mentioned. That is what I call system thinking, as opposed to looking at the consequences of taxation on citizens, especially in the case of a law that has still met the objective, when you look at the behaviour of the citizens. I would also point out that I have not yet mentioned him on Han de Jong by ABN AMRO, who was also asked by us. I hadn't had any contact with him, but he had written wise pieces about pensions. I thought, he's a banker, and we're talking about mortgages here, and I thought it was pretty logical that someone came from the banking world. I would have liked to have had someone from the housing sector, but we had a limited number of speakers. Han de Jong had a balanced argument. He said, macro, I can imagine you're very critical of that law. But he also said: micro, looking at the citizen, the taxpayer, I have serious doubts. A very special one was that he said: if you scrape up 1.1 billion in 30 years, that is so little per year that I do not feel that this law should be abolished for that reason. You know what a billion divided by 30 a year is. That's what he said. That's what really hit me. Mr. Chairman. I have here Leo Stevens' speech, but I'm not going to read it to you. He put it in, too, but no one had read it before the hearing. Well, that's too bad if you get an extensive writing. Because of the haste in which the hearing took place, Stevens didn't have time to send it all out in time. We didn't read it before the hearing either. I was actually going to give a summary of it. However, with all my sympathy to my fellow Members, I would like to avoid that. I have already mentioned the substance of his speech here, but in fact I would like and wish to add Leo Stevens' speech to the Acts of this sitting, because it does justice to both the supporters and opponents of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u227	That's what I wanted to introduce you to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u228	Mr President, if you think that the other ten should be done justice in this respect, this could be done. I would like to leave this to my fellow Members, because of course there is no report from that hearing and the introduction was not read either, at least most of them were not before the hearing took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u229	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'd like to see how you're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u230	Yeah, I'm fine. Just the voice...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u231	Yeah, I hear that. You say you're fine, but you've been talking for three hours. You have 12 hours to go. I just want to see if you really want to go through with it. I think everyone knows what you stand for. I would also like to look at a number of things that you would like to share with the Chamber and which you want them to be part of the Acts, so that everyone can read back what you really want to say. I will give you all the space you want to put forward the position of 50PLUS. But I don't want you physically... because I don't think it's easy to stand there three hours in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u232	Mr President, thank you for your condolences, but I would still like to continue as far as you wish and I think that is possible. I could imagine that at some point we would suspend the debate. That's up to you and the Chamber. I still feel quite capable of moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u233	Thank you. Okay, then that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u234	I have a point of order. We have, of course, also paused very briefly in the previous debate. Most of us were already here. Half an hour is pretty short. We started around 5:00. I would suggest that at least a minute or ten should be suspended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u235	I would like to suspend briefly to give Mr Van Rooijen the room to... perhaps a little bit of five minutes tops. For the rest of the MPs, I see you walking back and forth, out and back. You can do other things in between, but I'll suspend for five minutes. I will then give Mr Van Rooijen the opportunity to recover.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u236	Mr President, I am also following the debate in the group room and I am still working on my text. I find five minutes very economical. We had a total of seven hours from 5:00 a.m. and a half-hour break, including a meal break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u237	I hear Mr Dijkgraaf is proposing to suspend for six minutes. Then I'll suspend for six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u238	I give Mr Van Rooijen the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u239	Thank you, Mr President. I just indicated that there were a number of insertions in the hearing. One of them I gave you. I can therefore also give you the others, which I have here in front of me, to include them in the Acts. I would appreciate it if all the documents submitted, possibly additional at the last minute, were included in the Acts. I also have a number of summaries which give a good summary of the Secretary of State's replies with the groups, values, incomes and all the percentages we shared earlier this evening. I'd like to hand it over to you. Finally, unless you do not think that this is appropriate, and I will understand very well, I have Maurice de Dog's poll here last weekend. If you say that we should not do this, I fully understand that, but the point is that the Netherlands knows what it is about. Furthermore, there are all the figures from the State Secretary's replies. Here I have the presentation of the hearing, which I am handing over to the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u240	I assume there is no objection to these documents being made available to the Central Information Point of the Chamber. (For inspection at the Central Information Point of the Second Chamber of the States General.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u241	Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Leijten already did it. I, too, have a few letters I'd like to read to you. They are short letters from very emotional people who have pressed me to bring that forward. I've made a random selection. I have a letter here for me. "Dear Mr Van Rooijen, I follow you through the debates on television and have never written to you. I'm not gonna kiss your ass, but my hope is on you. We, my 67-year-old husband, were builders, and I, 63 years old, housewife, don't care anymore. My husband started out as a bricklayer in construction at a young age and worked himself up to performer through courses. We built our own house 30 years ago with great difficulty stone by stone. We did that with a small mortgage, because having debt doesn't suit us. Always paid for everything nicely. Until my husband with his last employer, in the bankruptcy of this firm, found out that this boss had never paid pension contributions, which was agreed and signed on his contract of employment. According to the curator, this company had nothing to get from it, even though it still had so many names under other names. And, uh, he just moved on. That was our first setback. Because we had so much overvalue on our house, it would not be a problem for us to be able to live on this in the future, as we were told by the Rabobank. However, since my husband of December 1950 and I am of August 1954 a difference of almost four years and a new law had been passed, we could not bridge four years. So we put our house for sale in the crisis time of 2013 and sold it with great sadness. Our second setback. Then we went to search for a small house, everything ground floor and prepared, so that we can hopefully take care of ourselves in the future (Participation Act). After our sale, we put the money we had left on a savings bank book. We take some of that off every month to make ends meet. However, as far as interest on this amount is concerned, we should be happy if we get interest later and do not have to pay for it according to the ECB. Our third setback. And it's really not a big deal we have, but I'm sure you know it. We are also not eligible for any surcharges, which newcomers, who have never worked here, will get, because we have savings and our own cottage. These newcomers are also being pampered with everything. (That hurts.) Now comes the fourth setback. If we can believe the government agreement on the fine on your own house, it's because we don't have a mortgage anymore. What do you mean trust in the future??!! Dear Mr Van Rooijen, I don't remember. May I say that we feel... through this cabinet? Yeah, that's what I'm gonna say! But what do I buy for it? Nothing, nothing at all. I just needed to get this off my chest. I hope I haven't taken up too much of your time, but I still want to thank you. I wish you and the club of 50PLUS a lot of wisdom and lots of success. Thank you very much again. With kind regards, someone from Limburg." "Dear representatives of the people, earlier you mentioned the dangers of the abolition of the Hills Act in the longer term, especially for cities like Amsterdam. Now that we hear that the cabinet wants to chase this law through the House of Representatives this week with its toxic cargo and dramatic consequences for the longer term, a sharp warning fits in for the accidents that are linked to the current proposal. In the debate on the Hillen Act, it is often about the elderly who have now paid off their mortgage and are punished for that with a payoff. However, there is hardly a spotlight on the long-term effects, while the law will only have its full effect in 30 years' time. Only at the hearing last Thursday did the Lower House ask the Planning Bureau to pass on the long-term purchasing power effects. Moreover, it appeared that the implementation problems are still not sufficiently identified and that there are reasonable doubts as to whether the Tax Administration is going to be able to implement the law. These long-term effects of the abolition of the Hills Act are disastrous, especially for areas where the housing market will continue to deviate from rural development for a long time due to structural disruption of supply and demand, such as in Amsterdam. For example, housing costs, which will soon be calculated on the basis of WPA value, are increasing and these costs are falling out of line with the income from which they are to be paid." This is described in more detail in an article in Het Parool of 15 November. All those who were at the hearing also know that piece, partly because it was in Het Parool, but we have also received the letter before. I've been getting very heavy e-mails from this guy a long time ago. He writes: "In the long run, many, especially the elderly, will be taxed so heavily that they will have to sell their house because the housing costs will become totally priceless, with all the social consequences. You do not yet have an understanding of the long-term outcomes of the policy. Also, the cabinet does not tell how the increase in the value of its own property can be cashed to pay the tax. For this reason, the cabinet proposal is ill-considered and totally unacceptable and should be rejected. Our theorem is: residential capacity is not ordinary power, because it consists of stones in which is inhabited. We therefore urge you to take into account the long-term effects of the legislative proposal in your considerations and reject the proposal as presented by the Cabinet, in order to avoid future accidents." "Ladies and gentlemen, I have also taken note of your position on the Hills Act and I support your position. The question is to what extent the coalition will go along with it. In view of the recent discussion in the Lower House, I have little confidence in that. Maybe I can bring up some more gunpowder for the discussion. For those who can now use the Hills Act nothing changes. One can continue to use the Hills of the Law as long as one lives. So that means an extinction construction, because in about twenty years' time few people will be able to use the Hills Act, given the age. Assuming the above construction, the elderly are often spared and the government shows itself to be a reliable partner vis-à-vis the users of the Hills Act, because the expectations created are fulfilled. Anyone who does not fall under the Hills Act on 1 January 19 can no longer use it. The advantage of the above structure is that public expenditure is substantially reduced. And the extinction structure also reduces spending annually. Perhaps one might think that the Hills Act favours some people. However, that inequality is already embedded in the system. The mortgage interest rate deduction for AOWs is usually only 19%, given the income, while for others a maximum of 37% can be obtained in the long term. Here too, the AOW enjoyers are disadvantaged. With kind regards." "Dear Mr Van Rooijen. We wish you every success in maintaining the Hills of the Law. Not only do many elderly people have their homes free, but also a relatively young couple from the early 50s. There's always been incentives to relieve and save your house for later. You have to work longer, you have to pay more care and you have to take care of less debt. We have done this nicely: hard work and leave many things to pay off our mortgage. We got it easier in our monthly expenses. So we can save for later, for care, for our AOW-hole (yes, unfortunately we have that too). And now we have to pay. What a unreliable cabinet! We citizens must have nothing and save nothing. They make it impossible in all kinds of ways, while they've been calling for years to save from these things. Have you finally saved up a little bit, the tax comes back around the corner. I wish you success in stopping the Hills Act, hopefully." The writer, Ineke, means to stop the abolition of the Hills Act. This clearly concerns not only the elderly. This was a fifties. Telephone, November 21st, 10:13. I was under 50 before the start of this debate by an independent entrepreneur who works without disability insurance, he writes, and has not been able to build a pension. That was all too expensive. However, he was able to pay off his mortgage with great difficulty and by being sparing, knowing that this would be an apple for thirst after his retirement. It's being taken from him now. He's very angry about that. He speaks of "an unreliable government" and hopes that the House of Representatives is wise enough not to abolish the Hills Act. Citizens also take the trouble to propose solutions themselves. For example, Mr (...) has sent me ten arguments, as follows. "Comments on the reintroduction of the home forfait. The government agreement states: "The 'no or limited own house debt' scheme will be phased out over the next 20 years." The deadline of 20 years has been postponed to 30 years at the eleventh hour. I haven't been able to find or study a technical effect and the long-term lubrication period. My comments are unrelated to that, because the whole idea is reprehensible on principle. It's gone wrong with a lot of people. Here's what I'm going to bring to your attention. There are points of historical perspective." I have to be careful when I read this. I'll pay attention, Mr. Chairman. "None of the party programs of the now forming parties included this topic as an item. No one would have dared to put that in the campaign, because that would lead to electoral losses. Isn't it a bit cowardly to be together now that we're strong? 2. The private house forfait, when it still existed in full size, has always been controversial. Taxing the possession of a self-inhabited house, almost always acquired with money saved in advance or afterwards, does not feel right. According to highly educated fiscalists, there is no good basis for the levy. It is not for nothing that it has been abolished by the Hills Act with strong support from the Chamber. 3. Whether your own property will be taxed via box 1 or via box 3, makes little difference. One thing's worse than the other. The idea of moving their own home from 1 to 3 has arisen before, but no one dared to venture politically. See Annex 1.' I'm not gonna do that. '4. It should not be forgotten that the property is already heavily taxed." That has not been mentioned today. It's an open door, but it's important. "In contrast to the rental house, the municipality is already responsible for the municipal levy on the basis of the WZ.' It's a good thing this guy points that out again. "The owner-inhabitant is already taxed by municipal taxes based on the WZ. The same goes for income tax when you're in debt. But according to the Hills Act, it wouldn't apply if you weren't in debt." And that's what this man means, of course. "Quality of character is the levy on that WWZ a capital tax," he says, "and not so small too. By abolishing the user part of the WZ, through municipal politics there is the freedom to increase the WZ for the owners. That didn't feel right either. Furthermore, more and more municipalities have also started to levy sewer charges, not as a cost-covering consideration for having a connection to the public sewer, but on the basis of the value of the property. The sewer law has thus become a property tax." There are more examples; you know them. In Nijmegen, where the man apparently comes from, the sewers went up strongly. "The housing gap has been increased over the years. So that too was an increase. This also led to a lower mortgage interest rate deduction. Afterwards, the further reduction of that deduction started in a different way, in which the long-term debt contracted with a 30-year perspective was really not done justice. In the coalition agreement that has now been concluded, there is still a scoop on top of that via the housing agreement. A good legal system ensures a balanced and equitable treatment of citizens, including in the long term. 6. With effect from 2017, the capital tax is the material correct indication for what box 3 as three-quarters income tax has been greatly increased. For the somewhat larger capabilities, the increase in the add-up from 4 to 5,39. That is an increase of almost 35%. The increase was effective at a rate of 30%, i.e. from 1.2 promille to 1.6 to 1.7 promille. At low interest rates there has been reason for years to reduce the rate of 4% of box 3, but there was no reason to increase it so strongly for another part of the same group. The agreement states that a better link will be sought with the actual yields, but it is unlikely that the budgetary margin will allow this to lead to a reduction in yields. In many countries, the home is protected, protected and encouraged in various ways. In the Netherlands it is rather a milk cow." That too is a pure description. Ownership is a milk cow for the government. You can get more out of it every year. I'll add that phrase. "We don't run out of Europe. With the mortgage interest rate deduction we also got out of line and it is good that that has been dealt with. My criticism applies to the speed of phasing out, because it greatly torpedoes the legitimate expectations. With regard to the re-establishment of the forfait, I think that affects older people in particular who have paid off their mortgage. Is that the right group to meet? This criticism is also fundamental. I think that these elderly people, and by not indexing them and by discounts, both without any prospect of repair, have in many cases suffered significant income losses." We will be talking about this in the coming years. "In succession it was for decades that their own house was spared by taxes based on the value in inhabited state. The own house was eligible for 60%, because there is usually no intention to sell. About ten years ago, that was brought to 100%. There were some other corrections, for example an increase in the exemption, but on balance the inheritance tax increased. Afterwards the rate of the lowest disc also went up from 6% to 10%. Finally, even if a serious effort is finally being made to simplify the tax system, the re-establishment of the housing acquis is not a good idea, certainly not with the 30-year grace period. This also indicates the weakness of the proposal. Government is forward-looking, but isn't the pretension very great here? To sum up, in addition to the many points mentioned in which owners of any assets have already been affected by an increase, the re-establishment of the debt-free house is not really possible. Although it affects a group that may have a dent, there is insufficient justification in it, because the lifting to capacity already has many faces. If this is due to the Chambers, a subsequent cabinet may come back to it, because it is not a proper measure at all. It is not expected to have a long life." "21 November 2017. Thank you for your commitment to prevent the abolition of the Hills Act. There is one element that I still miss in the discussion, especially when I hear the Secretary of State talk about a tax advantage for homeowners who have repaid their mortgage loan. The element I miss is the weird construction that is the home forfait. That concept was made up to slightly mitigate the tax advantage of homeowners, but in fact this is a curious construction. The private house forfait is based on the idea that property owners could get income from their own home, for example by renting it out and paying income tax on it. So I have to pay income tax on income that I don't have. I work four days a week. Based on the reasoning on which the house is based, I should also pay income tax on the fifth day of the week, which I do not work on. I could work that day and get income from it. That is what I should be paying income tax on. It would be strange if that were really to be the case, but in fact the self-catering forfait and the resulting income tax are just as curious. Hopefully you can do something with this." "Dear People's Representative. Much has been said in recent weeks about phasing out the Hills deduction. A group that I have not yet heard mention in the discussions are those who have fully financed their homes with own funds. These people have and will therefore receive zero euro financial support from the government in the form of mortgage interest deduction. This group will be affected by the reduction of the Hills deduction from year one. In other words, the government encourages debt-taking through interest relief and punishes thrift. I am not even talking about the idiotic fictitious element in the capital efficiency levy. In this regard, I ask you whether you intend to meet the said group financially." "Dear Mr Van Rooijen. With reference to your editorial paper in the Provinciale Zeeuwse Courant of 27 October, I would ask you to pay attention to the fact that the abolition not only has an effect on an increase in income tax but is also very unfavourable to those who now earn a little less than a morale and who, as a result of the addition of the rent value, are above the morale and therefore lose their elderly discount." That is, of course, still in the current system, so I say in between. In the new system, some of it will be very gradual. "I mean in particular the pensioners and the elderly who are already going to miss net plus minus €100 per month. I believe that this problem will often arise and I believe that it has been deliberately or unconsciously ignored. Another consequence will be that the four-week contribution to WVO Care will be increased. This is based on income. There are probably other cases where contributions or supplements will be reduced as a result of the addition. I assume you want to comply with my request, and I wish you health and wisdom." "Dear Mr Van Rooijen. Have taken note of the opposition of 50PLUS to the abolition of the Hills Act. I would like to express my support and appreciation for this. I had a debt-free mortgage myself. I didn't have to pay for this. I could have subtracted my paid mortgage interest from income tax for 30 years. Following the introduction of the Hills Act, I have decided in the past to pay off my mortgage in full. A deal between me and the government was that I wouldn't pay any more housing credit and in return would no longer deduct mortgage interest from income tax." It's the prettier one can't formulate it in one sentence, neither can I. "The latter has a major financial advantage for the government. To relieve my mortgage, I've had to lie crooked for years and deny me much. Now the government parties decide to abolish the Hills Act. If I'd known, I'd never have paid off my mortgage. I can't take my mortgage back on my own. After all, the government has made sure that this does not happen anymore: once repaid to the Tax Administration. I've been completely framed by a government that's completely unreliable. For my thrift, I am now punished with a ransom. The unilateral violation of an agreement which damages the other, we call in society..." I will not mention that word. "Rutte calls this driving. It's just a scandal. Moral awareness is completely lacking. You don't expect this from parties that always talk about standards, values and ethical issues. ...becoming with your own home is very hard. The private home is for me and many others the most direct private sphere. That's very sensitive. I have expressed my displeasure to the government parties. If you get a reaction, it is limited to a false and to a false reason" That's what we hear from a lot of people who approach us. "One does not deal with the case itself. It seems as if this was finally incorporated into the coalition agreement to get the mathematics right. Later there are only a few arguments made up. I myself have been stupid enough to vote for one of the government parties and now feel completely betrayed by them. I will not forget this and they will never be able to count on my vote again. In the meantime, I have communicated this to them. The same sound I often hear in my environment. I am pleased that 50PLUS does resist the payoff. Hang in there, I'd say. Keep stirring the drum. If you make this a non-negotiable point in your next election program, there is a very good chance that you will get me and many others as a new voter." "Good day, Martin. Just read your speech on the website. I would like to add something to that, not because I wouldn't want to pay taxes, but from a sense of injustice. I am 66 years old and bought a dump in 1984 and we started it together. My surroundings made me look crazy, because I could also rent. You'd still have rent subsidies. For 30 years, we've been building and remodeling. Holidays we have sacrificed for this and even now we are on the ladder to paint et cetera. All the money we have invested is net wages, which means that the government has already had its taxes. We pay VAT on all materials. Our labor is invested while others went on vacation or did other nice things. We all did this for an ideal, namely a home where we can grow old at low fixed costs. In addition, the Hillen Act was an additional incentive to spend our holiday money on redemption. Rutte III makes the end result that we gradually have to pay tax on this whole investment and our own labour year after year. It feels like an unlawful and unreliable government. If I had invested my money and labor in a boat, in an antique car or in a painting, then no rooster crowded there and I could record a nice profit at the end of the ride. Now that I've invested in my own home, I've suddenly become a milk cow. Yeah, house prices are rising, and the World Health Organisation is going up year after year. I have no control over that either. In fact, I find it very unfortunate that young families should be heavily in debt. All this increase in value doesn't make me any wiser, but later on I'm gonna be poorer. I just want to keep living. Whatever comes out of my home of value is going to the children after we die, after the government has taken its share. The WZ levy from the municipality works in exactly the same way: a tax on bricks. The combination of brick-related taxes by Rijk and the municipality is going to increase considerably. Those are just extra fixed burdens that are inevitable. I find a tax on use or consumption a lot fairer than that. In addition, you always have the choice of whether you can and want to do something responsible. You can influence all other taxes yourself. You can buy a motorcycle. You can suspend it. You can reduce power. If you want to pay less payroll taxes, you're gonna work less. A home is a primary need for life. Surely it can't be the intention that we should deliberately let our house rot in order to arrive at an acceptable rental price?' You understand that last sentence, I think. "In addition, I find the whole system of charges at market value unfair, very effective and unfair. An increase in value in the market is not cash but a possible paper profit. Charges them at the time he is cash, and not on the basis of a questionable market value. As an alternative, I could still imagine that a rental fee would be fixed on the basis of the purchase value. After all, buyers will know what they're up to. That purchase value will then remain as the tax base. A new owner then knows predictably, based on the purchase price, what his future rental value will remain. That is a reliable and simple system. Then we also have a huge cost savings, because all these valuers and objection procedures can lapse. I hope that the above can inspire you a little bit." I'll get to the next letter. "Dear MP, I've been a earner for 47 years. I've always been able to make a living through hard work. We bought a house. That always meant trying to get by with a minimum income. I have three and a half years to work until I retire and I have been a caregiver for my wife for 20 years now, with a lot of medicine and more. I have to sell my house for my retirement age, because after that the costs can no longer be charged. The rental sector is also becoming a dilemma for us, thanks to the phenomenon of skewing. So our future is very uncertain in the coming years." Next. "Dear Mr Van Rooijen, very briefly. I would like to thank you very much for your efforts to prevent the abolition of the Hills Act." Next. "Dear Martin..." I've read it before. These were a few. No, I didn't read it; I still have to read it. I don't want to repeat myself, Mr. Chairman, so I need to be careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u242	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u243	It starts with a rhetorical question that I'm gonna skip. "Who on earth has brought the abolition of the Hills Act into the formation? The law serves their voters in particular, because there are comparatively many older homeowners. I can't imagine them deliberately hurting their own voters. Well, the proceeds in this cabinet period are almost within the margin of error of the calculations over four years, so for the deficit figure in 2021 it is not relevant. Then why the determination? Now that it's in the coalition chord, it looks like it's been poured into concrete, without one sensible argument. I would say: voters of VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union are paying attention. Your party's gonna run off with your dime. And why don't they even know? It doesn't appear in any of the programs. Yes, at D66..." I'm skipping something, Mr. Chairman, because I told you... No, I have to read the sentence properly... "Yes, at D66, but only in the bank transfer. This means that the sums of D66 were not entirely correct and that they were then given cover by the civil servants, 'the Minister of Finance', I turn them into 'covering'. And then it comes, Mr. Chairman. "The CDA experienced something like this in 1994 with the AOW. According to the programme it was not allowed to be reduced, but it was suddenly included in the pass-through. Remember? The CDA lost 20 seats. Brinkman was gone after that and for the first time there were elderly parties in the House of Representatives. That's how it goes when you're your own voters... But the CDA is not a donkey. The CDA is convinced for the second time. As I said, the proceeds during this period are negligible. It doesn't make much difference to the budget. That's the danger at the same time. This proposal is an assassin on the elderly's wallet: a little more tax every year for 30 years. What are these elders doing wrong? They're clearing their house neatly. They're saving. They hope they don't have any more worries in their old age. But here comes the state, punishing that neat behavior. By order of CDA, VVD, D66 and ChristenUnion, elderly people are allowed to pay extra taxes with their own house because they were sparing. Easiness with spirit builds houses like castles, it used to be called. Now it becomes: economy with patience brings you ever higher burdens. Live your life, and the state will be there to help you when it runs out. Be sparing, and you'll get caught. VVD, CDA, D66 and Christian Union think their voters are crazy. No way! Ask former CDA leader Brinkman again." Mr President, that was a brief anthology of letters, e-mails that we have received and which sometimes, in better words than I have used in the last few hours, have expressed and expressed what is living among people. This has strengthened me and my group, and I think a number of colleagues in the Chamber over the last week, because some letters have, of course, also been sent to colleagues in other settings to conduct this debate, in all the openness and depth that goes with the importance of the subject. That's how I got the citizens' letters and e-mails. Then I have a few articles from the media that I would like to comment on. A great deal has been said and written about the payoff. At the end of the year, I think the most famous new word is "loose penalty." That's what they quiz about every year, and maybe they argue about it. But it indicates that it also lives intensely in the media. I am pleased that the media are reporting on this in a positive and negative sense. So that's what happens all the time. I will not mention the names of newspapers, but on Friday there was a newspaper that said in two major articles that at least the one who is standing here should think again about what he thinks and says, what I am still trying to do here. I have here an article from the Volkskrant of November 10th. "The abolition of the Hillen Act, the tax advantage for homeowners who (almost) do not have a mortgage debt, is almost certainly much delayed. At the request of the elderly party 50PLUS, the Lower House must deal with the bill separately. The Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, I write here "doubts now whether the tax regime can be phased out as early as 2019, as the new cabinet intended. The bill governing the gradual abolition of the Hillen Act must be adopted by the Lower House by 23 November, according to the Ministry. Otherwise, the IRS doesn't have enough time to adapt the computer systems. 'Such a system change requires a preparation of more than 15 months for the tax year in which the change starts', Secretary of State Menno Snel (D66) said early this week. That date doesn't seem to be met by a trick from the opposition. It was intended that the phasing-out of the Hillen Act would be dealt with at the same time as all other tax proposals in the coalition agreement. But by a small revolution in the Finance Committee, in the first meeting, before the second meeting, "the House of Representatives now has to discuss the bill separately. It'll take more time. 50PLUS calls it the "first painful defeat of Rutte III." The opposition that was able to achieve this is due to the composition of the Committee on Finance. Unlike in the Lower House, the opposition parties have a majority. Next Thursday will be followed by a hearing with experts. Next Thursday will be followed by a hearing with experts on the removal of the law. 50PLUS calls it 'the first painful defeat of Rutte III'. Under the leadership of MP Martin van Rooijen, the elderly party is campaigning against the deletion of the Hillen Act. Among the mortgage-free homeowners who benefit from Hillen's tax discount are relatively many elderly, the supporters of 50PLUS. Stimulate. Each homeowner must add part of the property value to his taxable income. Because of this tax addition, the homeowners pay more income tax than tenants. Since the introduction of the Hillen Act in 2005, this addition does not apply to homeowners who have fully or almost repaid their mortgage. This tax advantage was to stimulate redemption. The Rutte III cabinet wants to reduce the tax benefit to zero over a period of 30 years from 2019. Since new homeowners have been obliged to redeem since 2013, the tax incentive on redemption is no longer necessary. 50PLUS and critics as former VVD leader Hans Wiegel speak of a 'fee' for people who have repaid their mortgage. The fact that the entire opposition helped 50PLUS in the Finance Committee does not mean that they are united against the abolition of the law. 'We are just in favour of abolishing', says SP-Kamerlid Renske Leijten. 'We need to look at this bill carefully. That is not possible if it is squandered with all kinds of other subjects'. In the committee meeting she therefore called the bill a 'political quickie'." Then from the second column of Hans Wiegel of 11 November one paragraph. I have to go see him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u244	I think we've already had Hans Wiegel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u245	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u246	We've already had Hans Wiegel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u247	Yeah, but I'd like to mention one more sentence. I'll be very brief. Wiegel came back a week later. I understand it's not so much fun for some people to hear. "The infamous redemption penalty, the burden increase for people who have paid off a mortgage, is a tough one. The Cabinet wants to abolish the Hills Act. Former Secretary of State Martin van Rooijen of Taxation, now Member of Parliament for 50PLUS, that plan went well." Opinion. Economical citizens have to pay extra taxes. I'm gonna skip it, because I've already mentioned that a little bit. I skip long articles, also many letters written in newspapers. I don't want to keep you in the dark. It's short, but it's intense. "Hypotheque plan Rutte III hits sparing elderly people" is in the Telegraaf. "Amsterdam - Martijn Klerks en Koen Nederhof. Homeowners rise up against the payback that Rutte III cabinet has in store for her. On the Telegraafredactie, more than a hundred e-mails came in yesterday from angry and worried homeowners." The message was one or two days old, I add. "In the coalition agreement that VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnie hope to publish today," you see that it was even before "the Hillen scheme of former CDA member Hillen is being overturned. That law lays a line by the homeowners who have repaid their mortgage. If 'Hillen' is abolished, sparing homeowners lose this little tax advantage. Mart de Rijke, director of De Hypotheekshop, notes that the coalition's intention caused'resurrection' between consultants and consumers. "There's emotion, and we understand that. The measure feels wrong. Since the introduction of the Hills Act in 2005, many homeowners have paid off their mortgage. They won't be able to reverse that." The number of phone calls to the Association Eigen Huis rose so high on Monday" "That was so October 9th "that the interest club for homeowners sent a letter of fire to all coalition parties. Own House estimates that one million households"............................................................................................................................................................................................. Spokesperson Hans André de la Porte points out the impact on houses above EUR 1 million. 'To this end, the villataks, the home forfait of 2,35% still apply to everything that comes above that limit. For example, if you have a farm whose mortgage has been repaid generations ago, this measure will cost you thousands of euros.' One of the elderly organisations mentioned a similar example. The unrest has also increased among the members of the KBO-PCOB Association for the Elderly. 400,000 older people are members, I add. Two thirds of the potential doomed ones, they estimate, I say, "Two thirds of the potential doomed ones" is 65 years of age or older. The elderly union has received 'the necessary signals' since Friday, says a spokesperson. We still have to see the overall package, but it seems that this is going to be a cabinet that focuses on workers, and above all on two-earners. Then you've got kids off the bill, too, and they're gonna be the people who don't work anymore. With this measure you will find sparing elderly people. That especially richer homeowners suffer from the payoff, because they have the means to pay off their mortgage, the elderly union fights. Look at the passing on of the Central Planning Bureau of the election programmes: this measure increases income inequality. Peter Boelhouwer, professor of housing at TU Delft, also sees disadvantages to the scheme. "It's hard for people who have booked their own home for retirement." For them, the government may need to set up a safety net, says the housing market expert. 'But homeowners with sufficient pension structure will really not have to eat any less sandwich.' The professor calls the criticism of, among others, the elderly unions, Own House and political party 50PLUS 'unrightly'." You see, I quote completely. '"The Hills Act was meant to stimulate people to actually relieve their mortgage. Now that there are no more redemption-free mortgages, the scheme is no longer useful. It is, of course, very crooked that property in one house is taxed in a different way than property in a holiday home'." The NRC. "The 'loss penalty' is already a piece of shit. Especially in VVD circles there is criticism of the new cabinet's intention to abolish the deduction option for homeowners. Five years ago, it took two days for there to be a big fuss about the government agreement presented by the VVD-PvdA coalition Rutte II. It was about the introduction of the income-dependent care premium. After a lot of pressure from the VVD constituency, that plan was suddenly withdrawn. This time there is already before the presentation of the coalition agreement on Tuesday afternoon consternation about the intention of the new government. And again, the criticism comes from VVD circles. Sunday evening, two former VVD-headpieces, Hans Wiegel and Frans Weisglas, were hoping against the plan to abolish tax compensation for property owners with a (almost) repaid mortgage loan. That was the day after I launched the payoff as my word. 'A most remarkable measure', former party leader Wiegel said. 'It is wrong to punish people for paying off their mortgage', Weisglas said. Former leader of the Christian Union Leen van Dijke joined. 50PLUS, which fears that the abolition of the 'Hillen-regime' affects older people in particular, also protested in the AD against this 'loose penalty'. Monday followed a letter from the Eigen Huis Association to the four envisaged government partners, VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristenUnion. The association of interests is pissed off about the untrustworthy government. The proposed measure involves phased abolition of the Hillen Act in 20 years. That law exempts homeowners with a (almost) repaid mortgage from the so-called 'own house forfait'. That amount increases the taxable income. An exemption therefore means paying less tax. The decision to abolish is in line with the broader housing market policy of the new cabinet where the mortgage interest rate deduction will be significantly reduced in the coming years in combination with a lower income tax and a small reduction in the flat rate." Mr President, I can go on for a long time. The Association Eigen Huis points out that this is mainly about the elderly. They come up with arithmetic examples: what have you lost without the Hills Act? For example, the Association Eigen Huis says: if the Hillen Act is abolished, the tax compensation for house owners who have redeemed will be abolished. They will then have to pay more tax via the flat rate. Houses with a value of up to 1 million more than 0.75% are charged. Anyway, that's how it goes on. Mr. Chairman. From these articles, an article in which, for example, Mathijs Bouman refers to the housing market, and so on, it also shows for and against. I call them, I have them in front of me, and I would certainly like to read them to you, but you already know them, and the chairman also calls me to some urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u248	That's the point. You already know them. Members of parliament are supposed to be able to keep up with the newspaper, especially on the subject they are debating. I think that is true of most people here in the Chamber. I listen with great interest to arguments and if there is a special article that reads a paragraph to strengthen something, I am totally fine with that. But we're not going to see a reading marathon here tonight as a debate, are we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u249	What do you propose, Mr Omtzigt?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u250	Mr President, you sent us this morning as President a ten-point list of matters that we should and should not do as a Member of Parliament. So that an explanation of vote should not actually be more than one minute instead of two minutes. Sometimes there is some coulance and we are now quite generous, but I wonder where the content of the debate has gone. That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u251	That's what the MP himself is about. I have indicated that there should be no repetitions and that the Member of Parliament must keep to the subject. As soon as I feel that there is a deviation, I will say something about that. And for the rest, when it comes to speaking time, it is up to the Chamber to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u252	Okay, it's good that I know that. I am known to know all the procedural matters in the Chamber, but this means that from now on I can read unlimited newspapers in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u253	Yes, that is Mr Van Rooijen's contribution. I'm not meddling in content. But where repetition takes place, I say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u254	Mr President, with all due respect, I fully understand Mr Omtzig's comment. I was also ready not to read another bunch of critical articles about the law. I would like to point out that I have also read and may wish to read articles that think this is a good law. I took them all, but I won't do that anymore. I hope, however, that everyone will take into account all the articles written by the media and ultimately make their own assessment. That's all I've ever wanted to argue with. I thought the first set of letters I read was much more important, because you didn't know them. I indicated that even before the coalition agreement became public, there was a storm of criticism and then a storm of support. Fortunately, this can be done in a democracy. So there's no point in that. Mr President, I would just like to comment on the reactions to the amendments that we have asked the Secretary of State and his department for, if you will allow me, also because this would shorten the further discussion of the future term of the Secretary of State and of us as Chamber. Until recently, I have not yet understood that there are any of them. I assume they will be there tomorrow before the start of the second term, with all the energy and expertise of the Secretary of State. Otherwise, it is difficult, if not impossible, to conduct the debate in the second term. Every Member of Parliament has the right of amendment. I think it should be understood that I was only able to table amendments when Thursday afternoon was unexpectedly decided to deal with this proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u255	That is also what you said, Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u256	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u257	You have said the necessary about this too, about the way in which amendments have been tabled and so on, and when, and how this has been done internally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u258	Yes, Mr President, but do you think it is useful, in relation to the time-saving tomorrow, that I am not going to read out the texts, but to indicate for the sake of completeness what the amendments, when they come, are about? Then the whole room can start thinking about it now. That can be very brief, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u259	Yes, but speaking of time, how much time do you think you need?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u260	Not so much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u261	About how long?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u262	Quarter maybe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u263	And then you're done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u264	For the first time, this could happen, because I also understand the stamina of colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u265	And yours, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u266	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but that's part of the deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u267	Then it's clear. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u268	Mr. Chairman. We have tabled an amendment to enable the original operation of the Hills Act. It is actually a replica of a 2013 CDA amendment to repair an improper consequence of the gradual phasing-out of the interest deduction by a decreasing rate rate. Questions were also asked about this in June by the CDA, whether there is anything to be done about it. We have tabled an amendment to that effect. Then we come up with an amendment calling for an exception for the existing cases. The Secretary of State has said that it would be impossible, but we have understood from the calculations we received from the Ministry this evening that the consequences can be calculated exactly. However, we are waiting for the amendment and the possible aspects that need to be addressed. We are proposing an amendment to freeze the World Trade Organisation value, i.e. to exclude future increases in value, for those who claim the Hills Act. We come with an amendment relating to the phasing out of the Hills Act, which takes into account an exemption, a flat rate of €2,000, which means around €500,000. Mr. Chairman. We have also asked for an amendment to be prepared which is in fact separate from the abolition of the Hills Act, but which is part of the Tax Plan. We haven't been able to file that, because it's still in the making. That amendment calls for the calculation of the household credit to be based on 66%, or two thirds, of the WMD value. We have, of course, also provided careful coverage for all these amendments, as has been done by any party, including 50PLUS. That is what I stand for, that there will always be coverage, including for the 24 million, if this bill would eventually be delayed for a year if it were to be dealt with and accepted. Mr. Chairman. I wanted, almost finally, to touch another point that I mentioned at the beginning of the evening, and that is the mandatory repayment of 100%. In 2013, that mandatory repayment of 100% was introduced. This led to a large additional budgetary yield, which will be returned in the near future. At first, it would be later. In the meantime, it's getting sooner. In the questions of the PVV and in the answer of the Secretary of State, I saw that the PVV had wondered whether you should not reduce that compulsory repayment to 70%. We are now asking whether the compulsory repayment of 100% is not too rigid, after all, or at the same time. This compulsory repayment was linked to the financial situation of banks and the problems that would arise if houses were or would be underwater. But the 100% mandatory repayment also immediately yielded an immense budgetary benefit- read: charges- increase for those involved. This means that if you now have to pay 100% off in those 30 years with the tax deduction linked to that 30-year period in that period alone, you may wonder if a 100% rigid repayment is not too rigid since 2013. Mr Omtzigt pointed that out. I'm now making a big leap from the elderly to the young. That won't surprise me or our party. If you would reduce this, as the PVV suggests, to 70%, or as we could possibly consider up to 50%, then I would like to tell you the following. If you have repaid the mortgage only half after 30 years, or only 70%, you have a residual debt of 50% or 30%. That residual debt and the interest on that residual debt will no longer be deductible. But for young people, for starters, for people who have insecure jobs and forzzp'ers, it would be a gift from heaven to not have to pay off 100% if they can already get a mortgage, but a significantly lower percentage. A lower rate of redemption leads to lower house charges for start-ups, for young people. That does mean that part of the interest is no longer deductible. On the other hand, however, the value of that house has increased in those 30 years. That is realistic, in some areas more than in others. This makes it portable for the owner and the couch. I'll give you a sum. I've been approached by a number of people over the past few weeks. I have also been referred to reports, when that was done, from the EIB, from the construction sector, from the employers in the construction industry. They said, "Is that wise?" I don't have the pieces at hand. I didn't read them properly either. But people have told me that at the time it was calculated that if you chose a much lower percentage of compulsory redemption, that would lead to a huge boost in the construction market, because much more new construction would be done. In addition, there was a scenario for a bank that if in those 30 years the value of that property would be extremely doubled and the debt goes from 100% to 50%, you have a value of 200% and a debt of 50%. That is what the banks and the construction industry said at the time: that is a responsible possibility. Even if that increase in value is significantly less, say it goes from 100% to 150% and you only have a residual debt of 50%.... it is portable for the bank and for the person concerned. Why do I want to end this? It seems as if I am standing here on behalf of 50PLUS to defend the elderly in particular, although it is the young most affected. I would point out that even now 10%, 20% or 30% of people under 50 are already suffering, that over the next 10 to 20 years an increasing number of young people will be in the trap of paying the penalty and that they will indeed have to pay the full penalty after 30 years. They already know that. This is an even worse perspective for young people than for the elderly, who will serve their time and have a small pension on average. The Secretary of State indicated that half of the people have a pension of €10,000 gross. The average supplementary pension at Zorg en Welzijn is €500 gross. Ask Mr. Borgdorff. At the ABP it's a little higher. The average supplementary pension at Zorg en Welzijn is €500 gross; ask Mr Borgdorff. At the ABP it's a little higher. The payoff is a disaster for the elderly already, because they are now suffering because they have paid off their homes. But the young people know that they have a high start load first of all, if they can buy and finance a house at all. Often this will not even happen again, partly because of the mandatory repayment of 100%. They also know that if it is paid back after 30 years, they will automatically end up in the full trap of the redemption penalty. Through the Secretary of State, I ask the Minister of Housing and the Cabinet to re-read everything that was said and written about this in 2013 and to discuss it with the building world and, in a different setting, with the banking world. The banking world is different. The whole housing market is different. There is a major shortage of housing in the free sector. There is also a very large deficit in the more expensive free rental sector. Look at Amsterdam. I would urge the cabinet at the end of this debate to look at this again. On the one hand, it has brought great tax benefits, but what is good for the treasury is proving to be bad for the citizen, especially for our children. Given the high rents in the free sector, especially in the Randstad, they prefer to buy their own home as soon as possible. But that becomes very difficult because of the compulsory repayment of 100% of GDP if you want at least that tax support. Why can't we look at that again and come up with the 70%, with which I agree with what Mr Mulder said? Regardless of what percentage it may be, any percentage below 100% would be a great relief from the burden on young people. This is a signal that the young people of the elderly can take over: how earlier you can reduce your permanent burden on a home, the better it is for everyone, including the young people who start a young family. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u269	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Let me give you an opportunity to gather your things together. Our unspoilt restaurant staff even have a mushroom soup ready for you, because they too, as well as all our support, are still present for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u270	Mr. Chairman. May I thank colleagues, but above all the support services of the Chamber, for these overtime and the great support I have had? In particular, may I thank the spokesmen and their colleagues for their interest in this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u271	I give the floor to the next speaker. That is Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party. It's registered for 25 minutes. You have the floor, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u272	Mr. Chairman. Young learner is old-fashioned. I understand I wasn't there at the time, Mr. Van Rooijen, that the Den Uyl cabinet met until deep into the Friday nights. I can now make a bit of a picture of what that was like back then. You have revived that tradition in an admirable way. I'm not sure I'm going to pass those compliments on, because I'm afraid you'll see them as encouragement, and that's not how they're meant to be. But I think it is a good thing how passionate, how content and how confident you have spoken here for four and a half hours. I'd like to convey that appreciation anyway. I wouldn't participate in filibustering myself; that's not really what the PvdA thinks of first if she doesn't agree with something. But I think it is an understandable response to the power-political powerplay that is taking place here. This isn't happening for nothing. The reason for this is that this legislation is really being chased through the Chamber in an indecent way. I will come back to that in my speech. Mr. Chairman. The abolition of the Hills Act is ahead of us. Ideally, the cabinet or the coalition would have thought about that. At least I expected that about the question: what kind of housing market do you see in front of you? What exactly is the position of tenants? How many houses need to be built? What is reasonable funding? What do mortgage owners contribute to this? What is a just division in that respect? I come here to discuss this in detail with the new Minister for the Interior, because I am not only a financial spokesman, but also a spokesperson. Actually, that's missing, especially for the tenants. That whole paragraph is missing. But the same goes for the buyers. There's gonna be some shoving. The mortgage interest rate deduction is reduced more quickly. The PvdA Group can easily imagine this, but why is it being returned one-on-one in the form of a lower private house? Then what is the reasoning behind that, except that that's the only way the VVD can sell it? Some substantive reasoning is far from clear in this respect. Now the abolition of the Hills Act is imminent and must be pushed through as soon as possible, otherwise it cannot be introduced on 1 January 2019. But that lacks the whole substantive reasoning about the way the coalition looks at the housing market and what the reason is. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA has thought about that. We have also put forward proposals for this in the electoral programme. It also includes the abolition of the Hills Act. In principle, therefore, we are in favour of such a legislative proposal. However, the housing market and the distribution of income and wealth must be considered. That is my third point. You should not only theoretically consider what the Hills Act means, but also know in practice what such a law does. Many questions have been asked about this, but I think we really do not know enough. That puts a lot of pressure on the support of the PvdA Group. For we do not want people with the lowest incomes, often older people, to lose out on this measure. We don't want you to be able to live in your own house, the house you've been living in for 30 or 35 years, if you have a low income. We don't want you, if you live together and your partner dies, which means that your pension goes down, you actually can't afford to live in your own house anymore. If you have lived well for years, you must be sure that that is not the consequence of this measure. Mr. Chairman. We have not put the Hillen Act next to our housing market agenda for nothing in our election programme. It is about building more, things for the tenants and I know what is not all that is missing in the coalition agreement, but above all about income policy. For example, we wanted a higher AOW and a higher old age discount. The latter is part of the coalition agreement, about half of what we wanted to do. I do not want to link the elimination of one's own risk directly to this, but of course that is what people feel in their wallet. We would have taken these things together on purpose. The problem with this proposal is that it is presented alone and the effects on the different groups are not known. I will ask the Secretary of State for three examples in a moment. I've asked for about 25 examples. This is gonna hit millions of people. On average you can come out reasonably well, but you still want to know a bit in reasonableness what happens to different groups. We just don't know. We do not know that, because this legislation must now be rushed through the Chamber in three weeks and there is no time to explain it properly. It's pretty serious that you're filing such a big bill and you don't know that. I ask the Secretary of State to deal with three specific cases. First of all, take a couple with an income of about €20,000 and a mortgage, no, a house, without a mortgage. What will this proposal mean for them? I can already see Mr Van Weyenberg looking in his folder, at Table 1. I've read it. In this connection, coupled with this example, my question is: the compensation from the government agreement, which is then called "income measures', in which I would also see the VAT increase, is roughly 6 billion in 2021, but structuralally it is 600 million. How is it possible that the amount in 2021 is the same as structural? How's that? What measures have been taken and what have not been taken? Furthermore, are the effects, the effects on the health care allowance and other contributions included? What exactly is that all about? I do not think that Table 1 is convincing, the one Mr Van Weyenberg was twittering and interrupting. So I would like another answer to this example. About a third of the "Hillen-touched" is below €20,000. I come to the second example. There's a common mode income. A partner dies, leaving one left, reducing the pension. That is always the case; there is almost no one to keep the full pension. What does it mean for the income position of this family if the abolition of the Hills Act is added? And are compensatory measures also conceivable for this situation? I come to the third example. Luckily, it doesn't happen on a large scale, but it happens that grandpas or grandmothers take a grandchild because the parents are no longer okay. Those kids go to day care and there's child care allowance. What does it mean, even in all the surcharges, for people with a modal income and a house of, for example, three tonnes when they are faced with the abolition of the Hills Act? What does that mean for them? And then I am not even going to go into what it all means to tax people who have housing benefits, the higher income groups or people who pay alimony. It's millions of people in the long run. The PvdA really feels that the effects of the abolition of the Hills Act, which we are now presenting and having stamped in the Chamber, are not well thought out. We have also had a hearing and have all heard sensible contributions. Of course, there were also people who found something very convincing. It's part of a hearing. One was for and the other was against. The Chamber asked for a written reply. Well, then there comes a reaction like: there were a few supporters and there were a few opponents, it's a balanced picture and we feel supported in our policies. But that's not the way it's supposed to be. That is exactly where legislation comes in too far. Parliament's co-legislative role is too serious for that. That's why we should all feel addressed, whether you're an opposition party, like me, or a coalition party. The way in which and the speed with which this law is dealt with is to vote twice in a procedural meeting, a hearing with only half a day's time to ask a few questions, which you can't really put so well, can't you? You can't do legislation like that, can you? We've had this at our own risk, too. On the day after Princess Day, an emergency bill was filed. I was allowed to treat them here, too. It was only for one year. Everyone, including the Council of State, thought it was crazy: it's all being chased through. And now it's happening again. That's not how you do it, is it? Isn't that how you want to do it as a co-legislator? There is no substantive argument to do so. There is no financial argument. It is 35 million, and otherwise you build it in 29 instead of 30 years; first it was agreed 20 years, so 29 years can also. There is no substantive argument either. It is not the case that the housing market dissipates if the coalition takes a year more time for it. And politically it should not be, because as a parliamentarians, including a coalition party, you should want to do this carefully. I find it annoying to say, but I really do think that the co-legislative role of the Chamber is not sufficiently taken seriously. The only political reason I do see is to get rid of it as soon as possible. Then it's only through the Chamber and then we'll be rid of this wretched discussion again. That is an understandable, but at the same time a very bad political reason. I therefore ask the Secretary of State to give serious answers to the questions put and to the examples put. I had to prepare my written input quickly. If I had more time, I could have done so much more precisely. But even in the speed of that half day I could present all those cases. There's been a few new ones. Mr Van Rooijen mentioned a number of them, just like Mrs Leijten. We just need to know what the effects are for people before we can vote on such a law. You also need to know what the compensatory measures might be. Not one compensatory measure for one group has yet been mentioned. That's unthinkable, isn't it? That is what I am saying to Mr Omtzigt, who is always so precise and has announced that he will also be a member of the coalition. I haven't noticed. I am overvoted at the procedural meeting and everything must be rushed right through. I didn't notice. And it's gonna come. That's the lesson of every quick lawmaking here, whether it was the Wul or its own risk. All this also needs to be done again, because that is only settled for a year. The shit's gonna come. It all needs to be repaired later. I appeal to the Secretary of State to be willing to look at mainly the elderly with a lower income. I ask him to offer compensation for this and to identify exactly what is happening there. That really is a prerequisite for the PvdA to be positive about this. Mr President, I shall conclude. You can do it substantively, if you embed it well in a vision of the housing market and if you do it neatly, reasonably and well thought out and take a decent transition period. There is: 30 years in itself is long enough. Moreover, the question is how credible a 30-year transitional period is. We're already seeing how fast it's going to be at the mortgage interest rate deduction, so that's what's gonna happen here. But look above all at the low-income groups, and especially the specific cases. When you talk about millions of people, there's always thousands. Yes, there are also elderly people with child care allowance who have children. Yeah, there are people who pay alimony. There are also people whose partner dies, which means that the pension goes down considerably in one go and they cannot have the cut. They're all there. As a parliamentarians, I think you should know what you are doing and what you can do about compensatory measures. If this willingness is not there, I would find it irresponsible of both colleagues and co-legislator as well as of the cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u273	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Snels van GroenLinks. He signed up for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u274	Mr President, I am going to try to keep it shorter. We should not have had this debate today. It is parliamentaryly rude, in terms of legislation inappropriate and unreliable to citizens. That is a harsh judgment and they are harsh words, and I will leave it at that when it comes to procedure and treatment. At the same time, I do not think that filibustering is actually the way to respond, however admirable I thought Mr Van Rooijen's contribution was. This bill poses a dilemma for my group. I will come back to that in a moment. Let me start with the hearing. That was very good. It was about people as well as about experts' opinions. The hearing was also educational. Let me start with the people. There, of course, we were mainly told the stories of the representatives of the elderly organisations. There's a lot of unrest. There are questions about the effects and about the combination with surcharges and discounts. The idea is that all purchasing power effects that have been reflected are partial. There are questions about specific groups, for example people who have a more expensive home, but a small pension. There are also questions about what happens in the event of a divorce or the death of one of the partners, precisely because the law is primarily negative for the elderly. These are the examples to which Mrs Leijten and Mr Nijboer referred. Lots of questions and lots of unrest! The CPB says that the abolition of the Hills Act increases inequality. What does that even mean? Actually, we're not sure, especially since it's about a proposal that's gonna be smeared out in 30 years. My party is also taking measures on the housing market and taxation in the electoral programme. For example, we raise the AOW at the same time. I have taken a look at it: the older people are making about twice as much progress with the GroenLinks programme as with this cabinet policy. Perhaps the uncertainty in the elderly, especially in the elderly, is even more important in anger than in purchasing power. That's not so crazy, because then it's about the reliability of the government. I have looked at all the changes we have had at our own home over the last 15 years. In 2001: second home is no longer deductible. In 2001: a maximum period of 30 years. The loan scheme was introduced in 2004. In 2005 the Hillen Act. In 2009 the self-catering forfait for expensive houses and the adjustment of the staffel in the self-catering forfait. In 2012, the adjustments to the mortgage interest rate deduction. Now again a new adjustment of the mortgage interest rate deduction. And I don't even think I'm complete. What this actually says is that we are constantly working on taxation and our own home, while many political parties, the VVD in the lead, constantly promise to keep their hands off their own house. Then it is not strange that people become insecure and do not trust the government and politics anymore. Now again a phasing-out regime for the 30-year-old Hills Act. No one believes that, and rightly so. Whoever promises to do this again, I think they're cheating. Who among the coalition parties dares to promise that this phase-out will last 30 years? Does the VVD dare? Does the CDA dare to do that? Does the Secretary of State dare to do that? Then I'll join the experts, the fiscalists at the hearing last week. In fact, their most important criticism is that we do not dare to have a fundamental debate on taxation and our own housing. The own house in box 1 is a political error from the revision of Zalm/Alleged, which has to be repaired. And certainly part of the house is wealth, rather than income. Box 3 also deserves a fundamental debate and adaptation. That is what I was talking about today in the first part of the debate. People have lost confidence in taxes because of all the fictions that have crept into the system. That is bad for tax morale, bad for the ability to carry and bad for the sense of justice. A fiscalist like Leo Stevens, Mr Van Rooijen, also spoke about this: first, conduct the fundamental debate and do not abolish Hillen. The texts he wrote in the document that was distributed are harsh. I quote him: it can be perceived as a flagrant violation of trust and there is an evil smell of an unreliable and misleading government. If solid fiscalists take such words in their mouths, something is going on. Then I come to the dilemma of my group. My group was against the introduction of the Hills Act. When introduced, we thought that was a stupid law. I think one of my predecessors has said so literally. There's no effect on redemption. For income policies for the elderly with a small pension, there are really much better instruments. This law, as part of the entire tax regime for one's own home, is in fact untenable. Suddenly abolishing is also a dilemma. I will tell you that my group has not yet taken a decision on how we are going to vote. I have already said that in our programme, for example, the AOW goes up considerably, even by 15% in twenty years. There should be some insight into compensation for unexpected negative effects for groups of people. I would like to see a handout from the coalition parties for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u275	I understand the focus on purchasing power effects very well. I believe we have had almost 30 tables by now. There's quite a few of them. In all these tables, for example, you can see that people with only AOW and a small pension, who are already unable to cash the Hills deduction, which does not affect them, benefit from a higher old age discount and a higher tax discount. In a number of other groups, too, Mr Snels and other colleagues have put forward a number of examples: "The effect of government policy is a multiple of the effect of the reduction of the Hill deductions, for example in 2021." So I'm just looking for that compensation when I see that it doesn't affect people with only AOW and doesn't hit people with an AOW and a very small pension yet. It affects people with a slightly higher pension, but in the purchasing power figures I accept that for the time being; the answers to Mr Nijboer's questions we are sure to see that, on balance, there are considerable purchasing power pluses. So I am looking for something more specific from what Mr Snels is looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u276	I can also, of course, see that there are sometimes positive aspects and that the negative picture that is sometimes sketched may also be exaggerated. At the same time, we don't know exactly. That's kind of my dilemma and my problem. Can Mr Van Weyenberg, as a counter-question, guarantee that, in the end, special groups will not be faced with a negative income picture, or perhaps even have to move? And does Mr Van Weyenberg agree with me that we should keep an eye on effects that we do not yet foresee, especially because we need to deal with this law so quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u277	I always assume that the cabinet and we in the Chamber will keep an eye on how things work in practice in the implementation of laws. I'm just gonna take this cabinet period. I see that with the policy we now know, someone with an AOW and €10,000 supplementary pension, with a partner with only AOW and with a house of €2.5 tonnes has an effect from the abolition of the Hills Act and an effect of €678 by the higher elderly discount and the higher general tax discount. So I see quite detailed sums. One more, then, Mr. Chairman. A single AOW with a pension of €10,000 and a paid-back house with a WED value of €250,000 has €41 disadvantage in 2021 from the abolition of the Hills Act but €780 benefit from the other fiscal measures. Then €739 benefit remains. There is some margin in that, I would say, but we cannot determine that for every last individual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u278	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u279	I'll keep looking. There's a lot of space in there. The effect of the abolition of the Hills Act can sec, I think, not be greater. That's another thirty every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u280	Sure, you're right. That's what I started my story with. 1. The CPB does say that it is a measure that increases inequality, especially in the longer term, but that is a period that we cannot really see. 2. We know from all the examples, for example from the hearing, that there is indeed uncertainty about the coincidence with all kinds of other arrangements. 3. We also don't know exactly what happens when situations change people. I do find that situations that are painful for the elderly. You should think about whether you should do something extra in terms of compensation or softening the effects. From my own programme: what we did in purchasing power for older people, especially for elderly people with a small pension, is twice as much as what the cabinet is doing now. That raises my dilemma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u281	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u282	Mr. Chairman. The second point is in line with the fiscalists. The fundamental debate on taxation and its own home must finally come about. That is what my party has been advocating since 2001. Let me remind you of our election program. We are not abolishing the Hills Act. It's kind of a crazy conclusion, but what we're doing is taxing our own apartment in box 1. That is to say, not only gradually abolish the mortgage interest rate deduction, but also the house deposit. You could say that the Hilling Act is a final situation for your own house in box 1. However, with the commitment in our programme, we believe that there should be a genuine fundamental debate on how we deal with our own house and taxation in the longer term. I'm asking for an opening for that. In the debate we had earlier, at the end of the afternoon, we were already talking about the reconnaissance which the Secretary of State is going to do to box 3 and the capital efficiency levy. In fact, I think that this exploration should include scenarios, options and effects on income and wealth of taxation and own house. What my party also did in its election program was to take part of its own house, the price increases, as assets in box 3. Each time the current system is mortified, the building is shaky. I would like the government's commitment that we will also include this issue in that announced reconnaissance. Mr President, I would like to end by addressing a subject that has also been touched by Mr Van Rooijen. I have just considered making an amendment to it now. Finance prepared that for us, too. I do not want to do that now, because it is also a major change in the system, but I would like it to be included in future discussions. The subject is the demand we have now made for our own house to be fully relieved, 100%. This increases the burden of people in the rush hour of their lives, while people have a fully relieved home at an age and no longer have any burden on it. In fact, in my view, there is neither a financial nor a substantive requirement for this full repayment obligation. I'd like to ease that one up. You could think of paying off 30% of the mortgage debt, for example. Could that be one of the themes the Secretary of State might be able to comment on tomorrow? We should definitely think about it when we talk about the future of taxation and our own home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u283	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Dijkgraaf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u284	That's an interesting one. I did the law thing back then. We then proposed to limit it to 50%. You can argue about that; 50%, 40%, 30%, it's all fine. But I think it is the obligation to repay, with the mortgage interest deduction going to 0%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u285	Yeah, I think that's the variant that Finance calculated for us. It depends, of course, on what final image you have, let's say we're reasoning from the current system. Then you could say that you still have a maximum deduction of 30 years. So in 30 years you can go back to 30% instead of 100%. You'll be left with 30% debt and you won't get a 30-year deduction on that. Such a system could be imagined.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u286	I think that's an interesting one. In my view, there is a budgetary interest in completely reducing the mortgage interest rate deduction. Otherwise, people will continue to benefit from this deduction for a very long time, but to make 100% repayment now: I honestly never got it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u287	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u288	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State's office and see if he'd like to suspend for five minutes. The Secretary of State would like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u289	I'm reopening the meeting. The next speaker was Mr Azarkan van DENK. He signed up for five minutes. Ten minutes, excuse me. Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to take your place and listen to Mr Azarkan? Go ahead, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u290	Mr President, thank you. What a beautiful democracy we have. And what an interesting subject today! I have rarely seen so many colleagues, Mr Azmani, if you could take the trouble to listen to a wonderful subject of a financial nature. In most debates, this was limited to the financial spokesmen. I have also seen that colleagues can carry out several tasks at the same time. I've seen people reading newspapers, having debates, working on the pieces for tomorrow. Beautiful. Let me confine myself to the subject. The Hillen Act was introduced in 2005 and provides that the property will not have to be paid in full or in part if the property has been repaid almost entirely or in full. It's a logical arrangement if you want people to actually pay off their mortgage. Effective redemption has been further encouraged since 2013 by making the deductibility of the mortgage interest rate dependent on the actual repayment. I have a question about this right away. Has this repayment requirement actually affected price formation on the housing market? My colleague Snels also referred to this. Has the maximum mortgage to be provided and therefore the maximum bid that a buyer can offer become lower than for 2013? Or is the maximum bid still limited by the loan-to-value requirement of the AFM which is currently 100%? The deletion of the Hillen deduction discourages at least the discharge faster than according to the schedule of the law in 2013. But what are the consequences of this brake on accelerated relief in the housing market? It is now possible to maintain high housing debts, while the European Commission, the IMF, the OECD and many economists say that this is not wise. After all, high mortgage debts make the Dutch economy vulnerable, for example due to unexpected interest shocks. Is a good impact assessment made for the impact on the housing market of this hasty legislation? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Then there is a point about the transitional period. The DENK Group does not have 100% confidence that this 30-year period, which was agreed upon at the end of the day, will also stand. A transitional period of 28 years was agreed for the mortgage interest rate deduction in 2012. In the new coalition agreement, this has suddenly been reduced to 10 years, from 2013 to 2023. Who says that this is not going to happen with the Hills Act, so the Rutte IV Cabinet in 2021 suddenly brings the transitional period of the Hills Act back to 10 years instead of 30? Can the Secretary of State give guarantees that this is not going to happen? And what do these guarantees look like? Mr President, give politicians a button and they're gonna turn on it. So sometimes it's best not to give them that button. The abolition of the Hills Act changes the credibility of politics... I wait until the rest is quiet, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u291	I thought you were still perfectly clear, so continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u292	...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u293	If you want to stop, you can stop. But if you carry on, you can continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u294	Mr President, there are people talking backwards. I can't concentrate very well. Can you comment on that, a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u295	I understand it's bothering the speaker. May I ask you to calm down a bit? You may proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The abolition of the Hills Act changes the credibility of politics. This is all about changing the rules of the game. On 16 November, the Oracle Hans Wiegel called it "incorrect political action" and "in violation of legal certainty." This is not good for the reliability and credibility of politics. You can quietly say that the plan to abolish the Hills Act is one of the hairs in Rutte III's soup. The other are the enormous personal risk in the care, the VAT on fruit and vegetables and, of course, the abolition of the dividend tax. I have another question, more of a state order. Is it true that the bill to abolish the Hills Act is referendable? When reading Article 5 of the Advisory referendum Act, we noticed that tax legislation is not among the subjects that can be put to the public in a referendum. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. And why not abolish the entire private house? Then we will indirectly abolish the Hills Act, but in a different way. Is it true that this would be possible if the abolition of the dividend tax and the reduction of the second share of corporation tax did not go ahead? We'll have plenty of cover for that. Is the Secretary of State prepared to repent at this point? It's better half-way than completely lost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u297	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV. He signed up for 1,200 minutes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just trying to get some order. Mr. Chairman. The PVV stands up for all those who have nicely relieved the mortgage with hard work and often sober life. The PVV also represents a decent political and a reliable government. Fines for people who have repaid their mortgage are a form of theft. The repeal of the Hills Act would therefore be scandalous. Unacceptable, Mr President, that is what we are going to lie down for. This affects the basis of both our tax morale and the reliability of politics. So basically like Dokkum: the crazy ones can't get through, we stop them today, here and now. Netherlands boppe! What we have been through over the past week, as the PvdA called it, is a form of powerplay of the coalition: a procedural meeting, where we voted for just as long, I believe four or five times, until we finally had a majority. That's a trick, Mr. Chairman. And a trick you have to pay back with a trick. Fortunately, this can be done in our democracy through the long term. That's why I'm here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u299	And Mrs De Vries of the VVD is also here. I'm giving her the floor for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u300	I will speak a little faster than Mr Mulder, Madam President. I have a question. You were talking about crazy people who wouldn't come by. This time you did not have your election programme passed through, but you did in 2012. Then it did say that you wanted to abolish the Hills Act. To what extent aren't you just a silly person?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u301	As is rightly said, it is not in our electoral programme. I challenge you to read the election program. It's one A4, so you're gonna have to do it. Show me where it is? And if you then go looking for that answer, perhaps you can also...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u302	I'm interrupting. We only speak through the chairman. I am now addressed and I do not wish to be addressed, so you can speak to Mrs De Vries through me. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u303	Of course, Mr. Chairman. If the VVD is looking for our election program and trying to find where it says that we are in favour of abolishing it, because that is not what we are in that election program, it would be nice if we look equally at Rutte's €1,000, the money that would not go to the Greeks anymore, and all the other broken promises. If you have an answer to that, I shall return to your comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u304	I like the way Mr Mulder tries. I was talking about the 2012 election programme. That of 2017 was indeed an A4' and there wasn't much in it at all. And you didn't dare pass that on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u305	Through me, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u306	This was, President, about the 2012 election programme in which, in the CPB pass-through, the PVV did indeed delete the Hillen Act. Then I find it a little strange that you are taking others here now to the point that a proposal has been made that does so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u307	That's not weird at all. I was chosen on the 2017 programme. That's what I'm here to defend. This also applies to the other 20 people elected to the 2017 programme, which does not say that we are abolishing it. We'll keep our word. And I wonder what the beginning of an answer comes from, Madame, when it comes to the promises that have been broken by the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u308	I would like to refer to Dokkum, which Mr Mulder has just spoken about and the comparison with it. Do I understand that the PVV is in fact in favour of it and that it deserves to be followed up in the way you are doing this evening, that in this case in Dokkum democratic fundamental rights have been violated by people who have reported a demonstration in time? And that you actually think it's a nice way to do it and do something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u309	You can reply to this very briefly. You too, Mr Azarkan, must speak through me. And we're not having a debate about Dokkum here. You can answer this briefly and then we will go back to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u310	I actually think Dokkum is a very nice subject to talk about for a while, but because we...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u311	We're not gonna do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u312	Well, that's too bad. Then all I have to say is that I am very pleased that these people have not been able to disturb the entrance and have not been able to harass the children in Dokkum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u313	I have to conclude that I find that really contradictory and disgusting. If you as a parliamentarians here, in this house, have sworn allegiance to the Constitution, it is also your job to uphold it. We see this didn't happen here. I find that extremely inconsistent and distasteful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u314	Mr President, allow me. We are not doing anything that is unconstitutional. We simply note that a children's party has been able to continue without any hassle. There I am, and my group is very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u315	Let us now continue the celebration of democracy with the debate we were discussing today. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u316	Mr. Chairman. As I said, in recent weeks, the coalition has played a trick, even in a procedural meeting. If I can believe the people who have been sitting here a little longer and who have been through a little more procedural meetings than I have, it has never happened that one vote was taken, let alone that a vote was taken in a sitting up to four times, until a majority. It was then decided to add the Hills Act, which is about more than one billion, to the pieces we are dealing with today, from nothing, without proper preparation. It can't be. Even the PvdA found this incomprehensible and fell in with us tonight. That's good. Like I said, we had a little messy treatment. Last Thursday we were allowed to hold a hearing. There were terrible stories of people who can barely make ends meet and fear the future, including the elderly, who themselves have little or no influence on their income. Of those 70-year-olds, sometimes 80-year-olds, it's hard to expect them to go back to work two days a week? And that is necessary for some of those older people, if these proposals continue. It's nice that so many colleagues have stayed. I think it's good that they're also familiar with the stories of those elders. Again, I haven't been in the Chamber very long, but I've never received so many e-mails as on this subject. It's going a long way. Let me give you some examples. A lady writes to me that she wishes us good luck this night. She claims that this bill, the attempt to abolish the Hills Act, eventually leads to extreme burden-sharing, and that this is not evident from the documents. "In particular, for homeowners in the large cities where the WPA value is rising, the consequences cannot be seen." I can only support this lady. Today, it was announced that the increase in large cities is 17% - 17%! Oh, and that's the basis for the addition. If that happens for a few years, and why wouldn't it happen, these people have a big problem. It therefore argues that this plan, in conjunction with the municipal lease plans, is going to force many property owners to sell. She sketches her own situation. I have permission from her to share that with you tonight. She says: "I bought my current Amsterdam home from my mother a few years ago. In recent years, I've made every effort to pay off the mortgage, because I haven't built up a pension. The first 35 years of my life, in addition to study, I have been mainly employed by an organisation that combined sustainability with guiding people on the labour market towards paid jobs. For a few years now, I've had my own business and I've been trying my best to survive. I have done more than contribute to society in the form of corporate social responsibility, the use of time and knowledge in complex social discussions such as climate change and people's reintegration..."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u317	You prepared those e-mails. Could you go to the part that concerns the debate before us, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u318	Yes, Mr President, this relates to this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u319	That's up to the chairman. I am telling you that I am asking you to move on to the document on this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u320	But this is about this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u321	I advise you not to fight with me about this. I therefore ask you, for the last time, to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u322	What does this debate have to do with it? Because this lady describes the problems she faces when the Hills Act is abolished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u323	Please continue with the problems, not with which social enterprise she would have. Because I feel him coming very well. I would simply like you to continue with the point in which you state what this lady's problem is. And if you don't want to, you can do something else. I want the debate to take place on the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u324	Yeah, but this is gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u325	I have a very strict line in that. I'm asking you to go to that play. You can read where she starts. Will you do that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u326	Yes. "My perspective is coming under full pressure." 'Cause she's gonna have to pay at least $4,000 later. "On top of that, the government has the prospect that I will soon be able to pay as an older person without a pension for the fact that I paid off my mortgage." And that paid-off mortgage was her retirement provision. And according to the calculation, and then I come back to that WWZ, with in mind the exorbitant WWZ rates................................................................................................................................................... The conclusion is that the cabinet is in the process of creating a new problem with this proposal. This proposal, as it asks us, must therefore be withdrawn. Mr President, this is really linked to this law. I got an e-mail from a gentleman who himself states that he stepped into the government's promise in 2005. He paid the mortgage of €28,000 at once after calls. He says: "So Rutte said that all ordinary, normal citizens would improve on it." And he says, "I'm 71 now and I have to do it with an AOW for a single plus a few hundred euros of annuity." Not fat, but thanks to a mortgage-free house, he can live on that. However, it has lost 250 euros of gas. He describes how he often lives in one room to save heating costs. Again, it doesn't bother you when you read that. Look, we all have it nice here. We're even here at night in a warm environment. This gentleman says his annuity runs until his 81st birthday. After that, after he's 81, he's gonna have to do it with only AOW. His statistical life expectancy is 88 years. So for the last seven years, he's gonna be doing it alone with AOW. That's what he's got the annuity and everything attuned to. What's happening now is that there's gonna be costs, extra costs, because of this bill. If you're 30 or 40, there's something you can do. Then you can decide to do other work or work more. But this gentleman can't. During the game, rules are changed, causing problems for these people. That's why I'm standing here, because I don't want to keep you all away either. But this is the case and it also indicates to me that I will not read it out why the polls at all research offices on this law are so miserable. It's about real people and it's about real money. I'm going to the case myself, Mr. Chairman. Let me first outline what the Hills Act means. In box 1 of the tax system, income from labour and own housing is taxed. The tax administration assumes that an owner has annual income from his or her own home. The IRS states that you could rent it out as well. Regardless of whether income from the property is actually generated, the tax authority taxes the fictitious return that depends on the WPA value of the property. The levy rate increases with the World Trade Organisation value. The higher the WOZ value, the higher the fictitious income from the home ownership. At least that's how the tax authorities reason. By far the majority of own homes are financed by a mortgage loan the interest of which is deductible. Not so much the gross annual income is taxed, but the taxable income determines how much euro payroll tax and social security contributions the taxable person is liable to. Deductions, such as the mortgage interest deduction, reduce taxable income and thus the liability to the tax authorities. As the homeowner repays the mortgage debt, the tax advantage of the mortgage loan decreases. In other words, in the case of permanent gross labour income, the taxable income, and hence the tax burden, increases. At some point, the tax advantage of the mortgage interest deduction no longer outweighs the disadvantages of the home payment: the tax addition. The tax add-on exceeds the tax benefit derived from the deductions. So it is far from always paying off the mortgage debt as a whole. After all, the more you repay, the greater the tax addition compared to the mortgage interest deduction. The Hills Act was created for this group of property owners. In cases where the tax add-on, the owner's pension, is greater than the tax benefit from property ownership, the difference is, as it were, cancelled. Thus, homeowners are encouraged to continue to redeem their property until the last euro has been paid off. This is also entirely according to the rules of the previous cabinet: paying off is good, too high mortgage debts are wrong. But according to Rutte III, all of this is suddenly not true anymore and homeowners who have repaid most of their mortgage loan or not are saddled with a tax addition. That's the so-called payoff. Mr. Chairman. In order to take a good look at all these aspects of this law, I repeat: this law requires us to give clear definitions of relevant matters and to learn about the underlying laws, whether historically or not, of what colleagues have said about them in the past and of what decisions have been taken on this law since 2001. I'm about to start with the government and why the government is in charge of business. Then I go to the Income Tax Act 2001, which determines and describes what "a home" is. It is logical to then proceed to the law which determines where the value of one's own home is important in the determination of all kinds of taxes. I will also pay some attention to the valuation as included in the Real Estate Rating Act. For the gourmets among you, I only do this from Chapter 3. We will also share with you a little bit about the exact meaning of the Hills Act. We have a law hills. I'll share it with you. I will also comment on the debates that have taken place in the Upper Chamber on the Hills Act. If necessary, I expect interruptions, I hope to make use of the academic literature, including parts of the income tax manuals 2001, the Almanak Tax 2017 and literature related to basic tax law. Mr. Chairman. Before I start with why the government is in charge at all, I would like to quote Mr Sylvester Eijffinger, especially for the CDA friends here. He says, "Let's broaden the Hills of the Law. It is an elegant solution that generates the least political resistance. Stimulate mortgage repayment. People who have a modest mortgage in relation to the value of their home and who bought it for their own property and not for tax reasons will then be rewarded, rewarded for saving and rewarded for the redemption. We are a sparing people, but savings are not used to repay the mortgage, because they are not attractive for tax purposes. That's ridiculous, isn't it?" He goes on to say: "What I blame most on politics is that they don't keep a fair story. The fair story is that schemes designed in the past can no longer be maintained, not for the housing market, not for the labour market and not for pensions." He rightly says: "Policists, show courage and sense of responsibility." Mr. Chairman. Having said that, I will move on to the first important part. Like I said, it all comes together. Why is the state charging its citizens at all? This goes hand in hand with classic ideas about that state. The state has gradually developed. In the period preceding the first political unity, the Greek city state or policy, about the eighth century BC, family associations were important and effective for the organisation of social life. Gradually, under the pressure of wars between rival cities, the organization of the policy took an increasingly important place. Due to the interconnectivity of citizens within this policy, the rules organised by the community also played an important role. They became more important than pure private and friendship relationships. Good and evil were no longer judged primarily on the basis of personal criteria, but more on the basis of the criterion of public justice. That justice was defined in terms of general interest. Man was considered by the Greeks to be a natural social being, focused on living together. Society is then the logical product of individuals' desire to live together. In a view according to which man is naturally focused on living with others in the state context, the general interest not only means the common interest of all, but also the social and political content of what can be regarded as individual needs and interests. I knew I would draw your attention to this piece, Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u327	This is so incredibly interesting, really fantastic. So I'd like to encourage you to go through with this. But I would like to have some idea, also for colleagues, but especially for myself, of what this has to do with the Hills Act, so that we can appreciate it even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u328	Actually, I was hoping I'd explained it correctly. The Hillen Act deals with the question of how a society, a state, is entitled to levy taxes and how it does so, including the possession of the citizen, for example about houses. That's why I'm gonna explain what a house is, at least in our law book. And yes, that's sometimes technical, but yes, I didn't make those law books either. In any case, I hope to make it clear to those present and all those tens of thousands of enthusiastic viewers. I like that they sacrifice their evenings or nights and we can give them that. If we've defined what a house is, I think it's very good to explain why it was ever possible to tax the house. From that tax, from that tax, we get to the Hills Act. Let me make one thing very clear: these kinds of matters are normally dealt with in the entire preparation of such a bill. But what does the fact want? It had to go through with steam and boiling water. So we have not had the opportunity to carry out all the actions we wanted to carry out. You are on that committee yourself, Mr Dijkgraaf; you were there. The vote was taken four times to ensure...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u329	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u330	But, Mr. Chairman, I'm just making...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u331	I give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u332	This might clarify things nicely. In my view, as I understand it now, the line is that the PVV Group is defending why the Hills Act is actually quite good, namely because the government has the right to tax houses, which was indeed very common at that time. I understand that people are presorting for a vote. So I'm going to follow it with even more interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u333	Fine, but I'm a little disappointed in your preliminary conclusion. At the beginning we agree: yes, the PVV considers it important that a government can levy taxes. That is the basis of any civilisation, but it stands or falls with the willingness of the citizens to pay that tax. That can only be done if it is justified, and that can only be done if the government shows itself to be reliable. I want to show you that the last part goes wrong. Again, I would very much like to demonstrate that at least this government is entitled to levy taxes. I also think it's a good thing that we see that in connection, that we don't break it up, that we have to judge it together. I would like you to take all the arguments for tomorrow when you cast your vote. But if we argue further, then I don't think it's right for the government to call on citizens first to do A and then punish B. The conclusion could therefore be that if we do this race route together, hopefully, we will find out together that it is not good to abolish the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u334	But then I would advise you to take a big step in time. The tax moral of the ancient Greeks was fine. I think there are more clues when we look at the new Greeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u335	We often agree on Greece. Unfortunately, we cannot convince all the other parties of this. It's kind of nice what you just said. During this debate, someone told me, Mr President, that is just as strange for you; that is funny, I think that a chairman who changes speaking time during the debate is just as strange as a government that changes the rules of deduction during your mortgage. He probably foresaw your interruption, Mr Dijkgraaf, because in that context he also had something about Greece. Yeah, you're not making it up, but those things happen. I also read this from my smartphone: "that you lend money to a friendly power with the promise that it will be the last time and that they will still hold hands and pass by again." We agree on the Greeks. But I had started with the ancient Greeks because I wanted a bit of a logical build-up. I've been looking at politics for a long time. I have always understood, certainly from the SGP, that there must be a logical build-up in an argument. If we're talking about the Hills Act, of course, I can't talk about it right now. Again, we would have done this in the treatment, but we have been denied that treatment. So there is nothing left for me but all the arguments we would have liked to put forward in the next few weeks. We would have liked to have dealt with this in December. There can be no other way, even with respect for you, because you have taught us that there must be a logical build-up in an argument. Mr President, thank you for allowing me to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u336	But I can tell you, I'm gonna keep listening. You go back a long way in time to outline the reasons why people live together, but I am a little curious when the fiscal aspects will be added. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u337	Okay. For that, I also took the liberty of asking for 20 hours. I'm incredibly glad you and the Chamber allowed me to do that. So I've planned that build-up in those 20 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u338	I can tell you that the computer can only record for 17 hours; that's as far as it goes. Then we'll put it back to zero and count the rest. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u339	Oops. Okay. As I said, I have to go back a bit, because I notice in the room that the build-up is a bit lost...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u340	As long as you don't repeat yourself, you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u341	Oh, then I'm gonna skip a few years and then I'm gonna get to Aristotle. Well, then let me start with Cicero. That man is often quoted here. He is called "Sisero" here, very strange, but anyone who knows anything about antiquity knows that you pronounce it "Kikero." Cicero considered, unlike Aristotle, the state as a moral community, which was supposed to serve the universal community of gods... excuse, there were then several gods... and humans. The state should serve the community of gods people. And within the state, the prince reigns like a god. In those days, yes. According to Cicero, all positive law was founded in the law of divine reason. The policy and the senate can in that classic time be considered as one of the first forms of central exercise of power. Moreover, there was a distinction between the state and society. Characteristic of the feudal society was that there was no government and public domain. Society consisted of undifferentiated societies, which totally encompassed man, to all aspects of life. A human sphere of freedom as such, within which private freedom applies and which allows free social movement between individuals, was not recognised. The legal status of citizens was only a derivative of the power of the link to which they belonged. The bandages possessed chunks of government power over their members, through the form of Mr. Van Rooijen would say: now he's coming up with private property rights, say some kind of delicious rights. In the feudal system there was a mixture of empire and dominium, i.e. government powers and private property associations. It is a good thing that we bear that in mind when we go further in the history of the construction of the state and the question of why this fiscal power can be exercised. So hold that thought. We're moving on now, because I understand you've got better things to do, from the Greeks to the Middle Ages. Although there was no modern state in the Middle Ages, ideas were developed about the state. The medieval philosopher Thomas of Aquinas, like Aristotle, is based on a social concept in the development of his state theory. The idea of general well-being is a central concept from which the rights and obligations of government and nationals can be derived. God has destined the people to do so.... we have now come to the point that there is one god... that he must realize his well-being in fellowship with others and not as an individual for himself alone. In that destination lies also the legitimate origin of the State, which, for the sake of general well-being, has its task of dividing justice. General well-being consists in making earthly goods and products of labour available to all through a social organisation. I can now tell in the Chamber that people are seeing where this is going. Because within that social regulation, a government that sets rules for a just distribution functions. Even then there was a desire for a just division. Unlike Aristotle, however, Thomas of Aquinas saw not the state but the church as the most perfect form of society. That church ultimately had the last word in political, scientific and moral matters, as far as those matters related to faith. This view fits with the central role of the Christian Church in the Middle Ages. We're going pretty fast, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u342	But there is an interruption for you from Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u343	I would like to object, because this is really no longer about the subject, namely the abolition of the Hills Act. This is completely aside from the subject for which we are here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u344	I noticed the unrest in the room. I have given you the space to take a run, because you wished to explain, as you pointed out, why a state is being formed and why people live together in this way. I agree with what Mr Bruins says, namely that you are taking the space very widely. I even feel like you're going over the edge. Even if you had to leap by for centuries, I would like to ask you to get a little closer to the subject and not merely give a treatise as to why people live together. You have enough books in front of you, so I'd like to invite you to that. Mr Azarkan also has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u345	I was still impressed by the fact that Mr Mulder dealt with him for 15 minutes after all. So I think we can come a long way at that rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u346	That is true and yet I ask him to see if he can take on the relationship with the tax, financial, the relationship between the government and the citizen himself, rather than the relationship with the church.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u347	Now you're asking me to just delete the church?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u348	You know very well what I'm asking you. I ask you to establish the relationship with taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u349	Yes, but with all due respect, Mr. Chairman, I explained that at first. There's a connection between the different elements I'm going to deal with. I've got 20 hours for that, too. That is why I made this contribution. And if it takes a little too long for some Members, I would suggest that they do something else. I do think that you have given permission at the outset to conduct a trade which begins with the construction of the State and its taxation. If it takes one of the Members a little too long, I do not think you should say: now I also think you are going too far. It's an integral part of the argument I'm holding. You shouldn't take part in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u350	I have great respect for Mr Van Rooijen. He explained in detail, largely by heart, the history of the origins of the Hills Act, so how we came to do so. But this is pure theater. In fact, Mr Mulder admits this himself by saying that we, as colleagues, can just as well do something else. We can go out for a while, because then we won't miss anything. With this, Mr Mulder says that it is theater and I object to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u351	It is a pity that two categories of orator are being created here this evening: one is respected and the other is not respected and so on. And that's gotta be me again. Well, that's too bad. You will be surprised: I do not agree with that, especially in view of the thorough construction that I am doing here, also with a reference to the wise lessons of the SGP. Furthermore, I do not wish to dismiss all Members of Parliament present. I have just said that if Mr Bruins is annoyed that I go too much into history, he can do something else for a while. I see a lot of other people looking very friendly and listening carefully. So I guess I'm doing these people a favor. I would therefore like to continue with the treatment. Again, as I said, this is an integral part of the construction that everyone agreed with. I just want to go through that history so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u352	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u353	Thank you, Mr President. I object to Mr Mulder's remark that there would be a distinction between two types of speech. A distinction is made between the content. I am somewhat sensitive to this, and I do not want to intervene in Mr Mulder's speech. The distinction is made on the content. The last long speech was a little more about the Hills Act than you are building up. I don't think that's quite...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u354	It is quite right to say that we are building. I'm going to the Hills. The Hilling Act is a component, just like the home forfait is a component and has a causal connection with the rest. You can't separate that from each other. I stand here and do it precisely this way because we have all been denied this in preparation. And by the way, my colleague was there. He himself said it had to be with steam and boiling water, that it couldn't and that it had to be different. I am therefore trying, once again, to discuss with each other tonight only the arguments that otherwise were put on the table by the opposition in a few weeks' time. And that sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u355	It seems to me very strong that Mr Mulder had started a legislative consultation with the old Greeks. Besides, he skips for centuries. For example, he skips what the Romans have meant. I understand that he is holding an introduction about the government, the right to taxation and what that means for his own house, but I would appreciate it if that would get a little closer and faster to the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u356	But, Mr. Chairman, now I'm a little confused. You ask me to skip centuries, and now I get a colleague's request to go back a few centuries and to make it clear that the Romans were very important for the adoption of laws that were in force in a large part of the empire. He really has a point there. That was important. Actually, he's challenging me. That is what I really need to involve, because it is an important point. But I also did it out of respect for you, Mr President, because you say: don't hang around too long and try to get a bit of a logical build-up in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u357	Mr. Van Rooijen? Oh, you just sat there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u358	Yes, I listen with attention to Mr Mulder and understand that he goes to the substance in the construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u359	And I would like to invite him once again to seriously establish a relationship with taxation. You could have started with cell division and prehistory. You didn't. I don't invite you to do that either. I would like to say that we cannot have a debate starting from the very beginning. I would ask you to look at where in your book you can proceed with this in order to establish a relationship with taxation. And I'm really serious about this, because I'm not gonna play a childish game here. We are having a debate here on the amendment of the Income Tax Act. It's about housing. You're going back to history in your paper. There's a part of it. You've done that now. You have indicated why people live together and why there is a government, but I now urge you to go to a moment that has something to do with the finances between the government and citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u360	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u361	And not "yes"! I'm asking you to move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u362	Then I say yes and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u363	I can take the floor, and I would be very sorry to hear that, because then we will have a very nasty situation, but I am not going to avoid that, because I am asking you to go to a moment that has a relationship with taxation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u364	Mr President, your request begins with a remark that I could have started with the division of cells. Of course, that's not true. Cell division has nothing to do with taxation and the Hills Act. The state that is given authority over man and is allowed to determine whether taxes are paid does. That is why it makes perfect sense for me to start. And forgive me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u365	You have started to do this and are now going to talk about taxation. I'll give you one minute to look up that piece. I'll suspend for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u366	You ready? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u367	Another attempt, Mr. Chairman. I'll find out how you feel about this or how you feel about it after there's another interruption. The economic crisis of the late 1970s allowed for criticism of the welfare state. The 1980s and the first half of the 1990s are characterised by a greater emphasis on market blessings. The government had to focus on its core tasks. In 1983 the then Secretary-General of Economic Affairs, Geelhoed, distinguished four functions which the modern state fulfils: 1. the function of organizing, ensuring the whole of lasting legal relations between citizens and in the relationship between state and citizen; 2. the function of performing, ensuring the security of life and the well-being of the citizen; 3. the guiding function. The first three were therefore the ordering function, the performing function and the steering function. The latter is the effort to ensure that social processes are conducted in accordance with public objectives. In order to complete it, he had four functions: the arbitrary function: making choices between conflicting and divergent interests. There was a realization that the government had taken on too many tasks. At the government level, the first Lubbers cabinet introduced the six major operations in 1982. A number of people here in the Chamber have been allowed to see this live, and they know that it was a question of decentralization, deregulation, privatisation, rethinking, it is being said from the Chamber, Mr President! (ii) the reduction of staff and the reorganisation of the government. In addition to fundamental political and financial-economic considerations, legal, organisational and pragmatic considerations played a role in the independence and privatisation of public administration. At the beginning of the 1980s, independence focused on privatisation, and subsequently changed its form and content. Self-employment has also manifested itself in the form of independent administrative bodies and in an internal form of self-management and contract management. The policy of self-employed and privatising has undergone constant development in recent years. In the middle of the 1990s critical reports on the independence carried out will be published. The report of the Sint Commission in 1995 and the report of the Court of Auditors in Section 3 may be referred to. It's called securing public interest. It calls for caution in the privatisation of public administration. The Council warns about the debate on privatisation, but also about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u368	Sir! I am going to start over again about the fact that I want you to focus on taxation. That is the subject of the debate. The subject of debate is not market forces and not in that sense the broad functions of the government, but the tax authorities. I think you have noticed what this debate was about. I assume you have prepared yourself for what is the subject of this debate. Even I understand what this debate is about. I also understand that these are not the subjects you are discussing. So I'm glad you're getting the next folder. Then you can continue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u369	The housing policy of Rutte II cabinet, do you think that is related to the Hills Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u370	I'll take a look at the spokesmen. I see an understanding gesture there, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u371	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u372	Let me just say one thing. I don't care if you want to speak for 20 hours, even if you speak for 40 hours. But you are talking about the subject we are discussing today. That's why I'm fine with you going to the housing policy now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u373	That's right. But, Mr President, at least we have to be honest. Before I started, I indicated how I wanted to build up my speech. I didn't just start anything. I tried to explain why I went back in history. No one whistled me back. I understand that you do not agree, but please do not get upset about it, because I announced it in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u374	Go ahead with your housing policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u375	Okay. It is an analysis of Rutte II's housing policy between 2013 and 2017. This analysis is mainly based on policy documents covering the period 2013 to 2017, research and evaluation reports and overview publications such as the State of the Housing Market and the State of Housing. The report remains in many places close to the literal text of policy documents and research reports. Some of the paragraphs have already been written down as an article or a column, but it was useful to include them in this paper. These texts are included with an indication of the date, so that it can be checked and followed by the people in the public. Once I have completed the introduction, an overview of the proposals of the official working group called Reconsideration National Expenditures Living will follow. It has developed a whole range of options for the honourable cuts which also apply to the Housing Act measures. Special attention is paid to hybrid organisations and the safeguarding of public interests in the background. The covenant of the housing corporations still passes, as well as the hybrid character...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u376	I can tell you now that those last two issues will be corrected by me. You can start from what you had announced to start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u377	Then I'll start the wide-ranging review of living, including property tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u378	And then you immediately have an interested question from Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u379	This whole filibustering thing turns out to be a real job. It's still quite an art. I would like to call on Mr Mulder to simply produce a debate, as the PVV can do like no other: to say sharp and fresh from the liver that it is all wrong. Bring it with conviction. You're really good at that. I'd like to appeal to that. This gives colleagues the opportunity to make their contribution tonight and to have a proper debate. I think that this argument, with rethinking and reading reports, and I am glad that the PVV is aware of it, does not really make a valuable contribution to the debate. I would like to appeal to Mr Mulder: come on, say what you think; you are really good at it. Then we can all debate it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u380	It's amazing how many compliments you get to make sure you don't do what you intended. That happened to my predecessor who stood here a little longer. I would like to thank Mr Nijboer for his input, but I would like to stick to the President's view that this is related to the Hills Act. I will therefore continue to quote and read this report. Because it was rightly said that I could skip the beginning, I start with the wide review property, including property tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u381	But first of all, there is a question for you from Mrs De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u382	I think some of those reports are known. I understand that there are also laws ready to be read. Every Dutchman is supposed to know the law. Let's assume that. I would really like to call on Mr Mulder not to read the parts that everyone is supposed to know or know. Let us talk about the content and debate the proposal. I think that is the purpose of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u383	That sounds like a very sensible proposal. Edoch, I had a build-up in my speech. It started with the state and the taxes. Unfortunately, I'm not allowed to do that. What I do like is clearly said to me. It is all that has to do with the Hills Act. So I'm also allowed to read the law. That has to do with the Hills Act. I can also go into the Rutte II housing market. I would like to thank Mrs De Vries for thinking with me, but I am sticking to my original approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u384	Mr Dijkgraaf has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u385	Mr President, I really need to get that law read out properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u386	But you had a report first, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u387	I had a report first. Very good, Mr. Chairman. And then the law comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u388	I'll listen, Mr. Dijkgraaf. You'll have to wait for the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u389	Don't worry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u390	Minus two chapters, I had already indicated, which I did not consider to be relevant to the debate. Go ahead. We're curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u391	That's right, that's right, that's right. I'll do that very neatly, Mr. Chairman. I'll spare you, because I actually wanted to... that's important. It's got these graphs in it every once in a while. I was just saying, how am I supposed to tell you? I wanted to go around and show you these graphs, but that might take a while. I won't. I hope that if I tell it visually, you can imagine that. Then let me do everyone a favor and go to the comments. It is stated that the framework for the broad review of residence is the analysis of the CPB, which, during Rutte II, set a total cut-off of EUR 29 billion. The ESC was based on a budget-neutral reform of the housing market. Furthermore, it is important to realise that a substantial stimulus programme has already been drawn up in 2009 and 2010 during the Balkenende IV cabinet, which automatically came to an end on 1 January 2011. Indeed, some of the developments in the housing market and construction market in 2010 were subsidy driven. And as we all know, subsidy is always disruptive. Therefore, the period 2011-2020 to be considered by the administrative review group can be characterised as a procrustesbed. That's a good word, Mr. Chairman. That's a word you don't see very much, here in the House of Representatives and even in reports like this. It is striking that the administrative review committee has not set itself up for ownership neutrality for the housing policy to be pursued. This property neutrality in particular will be reflected in the assessment of the taxation of the Hills Act. However, the committee proposes the abolition of transfer tax. In view of the budgetary implications, the Committee proposes a tax on property as a replacement tax. For the governance of housing corporations, the review committee even sets two approaches against each other. It was important for everyone to understand that. The corporations are going to invest more in society and a discussion that is again taking place in line with the government's current policy vision. The core task of the corporations is defined more strictly. As a result, the question arises as to how the public authorities can gain access to the then available assets for the public interest. I will now, as Mr Van Rooijen did occasionally, skip all the examples. However, I would like to continue with the fact that the working party took a big step at some point. It stated that this approach involves a form of financial settlement between the corporations themselves, precisely because it involved a settlement of interest. In the integral corporation variant, the SER mobilized the Housing Fund to optimise the match between tasks and resources. You understand, Mr President, that if I read this so, then it is right to understand why what we are discussing here is so complicated, because a lot of these sentences need to be read twice or three times in order to understand them properly. Now I was actually going to repeat it twice or three times, but I see...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u392	You can already see me looking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u393	...that we're not gonna do that either. I hope everyone's really paying attention and taking notes, because I'm only allowed to say it once. The official working group pays particular attention to the sale of corporate housing to investors. Intensification of such sales processes would in the short term generate considerable revenue in the social rental sector which the Empire would presumably want to reap, precisely because it needed some of it for the purchasing sector as well. It's billions of euros a year. The official working group notes that the affordability of living for the target group in these variants will ultimately be entirely via the rent allowance. The difference between corporate housing and investor housing on the housing market will then disappear in the long term. In other words, in this perspective, the added value of housing corporations as an approved institution would lapse. Further specification and updating of this added value of authorised institutions in a market-oriented rental pattern is an urgent task. On October 29th, and then I wash something forward, the coalition chord of the VVD and the PvdA was presented. It was called "Bruggen slamming," and there was a housing market paragraph in it. It is important because on that basis a lot of people have made financial decisions that are still going on. That housing paragraph reads as follows: "The housing market is locked. This is bad for our economy and extremely obstructive for people who want to buy, rent or move. By placing annuity as a condition for tax deductions on new mortgages and a structural reduction in transfer tax, the first important steps have been taken to re-launch the housing market. As a final piece, we create a clear and sustainable framework for the purchase and rental market. So we put an end to the prevailing uncertainty and bring a fair and well-running housing market into reach. Because of the great importance and complexity of the reforms, a new Minister for Housing and the National Service will be responsible for the housing file in the Department of Foreign Affairs." Mr. Chairman. The government agreement states that the mortgage interest deduction will continue to exist in order to encourage the purchase of a private home. It will be adjusted as follows: for existing and new mortgage loans, a maximum deduction rate will be reduced via the disc in steps of 0,5% per year to the third disc rate from 2014. The proceeds are returned to the group affected by the measure on an annual budget neutral basis: half by lowering the highest rate in income tax and half by extending the third tax base in income tax. The problems with residual debts are addressed in a targeted way and interest paid on residual debts can be deducted temporarily, up to five years and under conditions. The favourable loan facility for start-ups of the Dutch People's Housing Foundation will be extended. It also states that the rent allowance remains intact in order to keep housing for lower income groups affordable. That allows for a differentiated rent increase. That rent increase for tenants, as much as I would like to discuss it, I will skip as part of this contribution, so that we go back to today's beautiful subject. You see, Chairman, I listen and I learn. In the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, Stef Blok of the VVD is given responsibility for the new portfolio Wonen and Rijksdienst. It is very doubtful whether the Rutte cabinet has finally brought a fair and well-established housing market into reach and put an end to the prevailing uncertainty. I'll be right back to that in chapter 19. For example, the government agreement mentions the step-by-step modest reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction. Not a single word, however, is dirtyed by the tightening up of the mortgage conditions. Nor is the growing difference between insiders and outsiders mentioned. The income-dependent rent increase is announced, including keeping the rent supplement intact. Announces the end of the complex point system. I will skip the corporations, but it is still said that the residents-owners and the residents of rental houses in the free sector will just get off well, with the heels over the ditch. On a number of points, the coalition agreement follows the review report discussed in the previous chapter. I do not know if I can refer to that, because I have had to skip parts, but it has been discussed. Policy measures remain within the framework of the existing system, both in terms of purchase and hire. In the purchasing sector, the mortgage interest rate deduction is very, very carefully reduced by a step-by-step reduction of the maximum deduction rate. Why is that important? It was said at the time: the mortgage interest deduction is like a house and we are going to take it down very slowly. But everyone knows, if politics gets a button to turn on, she's gonna. This has proved to be because it has been reduced to four years. What everyone, quite rightly, is very afraid of is that the same thing is going to happen to these Hills: to announce, to reduce it, and then it will be possible to do so, because we need money, for example, because the next cabinet, according to the Council of State, has to make structural cuts of 3 billion, so that they can decide to raise that money through the abolished Hills Act, so that we can reduce it more quickly from 30 years to 4 years. Despite this, no tax on property is introduced, but only a tax on the total sector. For new cases, annuity redemption is required within 30 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u394	Mr. Chairman. The housing agreement was implemented on 13 February 2013 together with, and that is interesting, not only the VVD and the PvdA, but also with D66, ChristenUnion and the SGP. Unfortunately, the spokesman for that last party is gone, because he was listening when I was in the process of building up the state and history. You see, I'm gonna turn away from that and then, unfortunately, people are gonna drop out. However, on 13 February 2013, D66, ChristianUnion and SGP joined because the government coalition, VVD and PvdA, had no majority in the Upper Chamber. The Rutte II cabinet took the initiative to conclude a housing agreement with D66, ChristenUnion and SGP. In doing so, this agreement was able to count on one vote at the time, and you will see the parallel majority in the Upper Chamber. In an earlier stage... sorry, I'm getting a little distracted, because I hear my own speech back. Pretty interesting, but probably not the intention. There are people who want to hear it twice, apparently. That gives the citizen courage! So there was one vote majority. At an earlier stage, negotiations had been conducted with the CDA. This party withdrew the support for the housing agreement. That's exciting, of course, because why did the CDA do that? That's what we're gonna see tonight. That is, because the cabinet in principle continued to opt for the combination of raising and skimming of the additional rent income to the state treasury. Compared to the original coalition agreement, which I spoke about, the government policy for tenants and buyers was somewhat softened and less money was withdrawn from the housing corporations. It is estimated that the housing agreement compared to the government agreement cost the Treasury more than 200 million euros a year. Of course, that is a lot of money, but compared to the law that we are discussing here tonight, which costs just over a billion dollars, that is not that bad. So you're wondering why the CDA was pulling the plug and now it's not gonna have any problem breaking a billion-dollar law within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u395	When I stood here, Mr Mulder thought: 'Come on, I'm going to put in the wording 'the abolition of the Hills Act'. I find the living agreement extremely interesting. I was there. But is it not an idea for Mr Mulder to focus a little more on the legislative proposal that is now before us? I am still very curious as to what he thinks and has to argue about it. Many colleagues have already preceded me. I find history lessons less useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u396	Mr. Mulder, will you respond to this? It's actually an incentive to focus on the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u397	You missed a part of it, or you didn't hear it. I don't know how much I need to update you on what I may or may not be allowed to do. You are, of course, President, but still: there has been a discussion here and I have largely adapted to the wishes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u398	I followed you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u399	Oh, okay. But I have adapted, because much of my speech was about the state. I skipped taxation. I have been assured by everyone, by the chairman and by the people in this Chamber, that I should at least be able to discuss the Rutte II housing agreement and the developments in the housing market. You can't deny me that, can you? If anything goes down there, it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u400	Yeah, clear. I shall give the floor again to Mr Van Weyenberg so that he can finish his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u401	Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u402	I would, of course, like to give Mr Mulder every opportunity to share with us all his enthusiasm or objections to the present legislative proposal. Of course, he gets all the space to do that. But I'm all getting historical reflections now. I'd say we've already pressed the fast forward button a few times. Let's do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u403	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. After the agreement was concluded, there was also a number of other measures on the housing market. People who had experienced a fall in income while they had previously received an income-dependent rent increase or mortgage interest are entitled to a reduction. That also refers to the law we are talking about. This is true up to the level they will have to pay if they have not received an income-dependent increase. Then there's something here about the privacy of the tenants. I will spare you that, because after all, this is about the sales market. What does the settlement agreement mean for buyers? I'm really trying to scroll through the text if that's possible. So you'll forgive me if you hear the word "renter" from time to time, but I'll go straight to buyers. What did that housing agreement, which the CDA didn't agree with about the 200 million, mean for buyers? The threshold to buy a house is lowered. Since 1 January, new house buyers had to redeem their entire mortgage loan in 30 years in order to obtain mortgage interest relief. Now, with this agreement, they only have to pay half. In fact, that is the situation that has existed since 2011. This reduces the monthly burden of a mortgage. Buyers can take out a second loan up to 50% of the value of the property. On this loan, buyers will not receive a mortgage interest deduction. The monthly charges are lower in the first years, but in the long run higher, says the cabinet; in this case an overview given by NRC Handelsblad. Buyers who redeem half in 30 years will receive less mortgage interest relief. With a tax trick, they are doing 100% fictitiously for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u405	There's been another interruption. Mrs. De Vries, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u406	I have also indicated later that there are, of course, pieces from the past. We can all take it. We could have taken it if we needed it or if we wanted it. A number of Members have even been present. I do not think it is very useful to repeat that in this debate. I'd like to know what you think of the Hills Act now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u407	I often sit here in debates in which I hear contributions that I do not find very useful. Still, I have the decency to sit and listen and, if necessary, respond. I note that I have been given the opportunity to mention everything that has to do with the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u408	I note, however, that a number of colleagues are now encouraging you to be more specific, looking at the legislative proposal. Let me translate that in this way. There is also an interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u409	I would like to urge Mr Mulder to at least at the beginning of a section indicate the coherence with the abolition of the Hills Act, so that we can listen to it in a targeted way. Otherwise, we're gonna have to figure it out ourselves. It would adorn Mr Mulder if he made the connection with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u410	Once again, I hear the request in an interruption to make it really more concrete as to the relevance of the legislative proposal. I really want to ask you to make that more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u411	The point, of course, is that I've already tried to indicate that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u412	Would you at least indicate which part you are with now? You're browsing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u413	Well, I'm trying to move on to... I'm trying to skip everything that has to do with the lease agreement, with corporations and with rentals, so I stay with the mortgage interest deduction. Then I can tell you what that has to do with the Hills Act. Let's talk about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u414	There is another interruption by Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u415	To be honest, I find it a bit of an embarrassing display. Let Mr Mulder simply browse quickly to the part about the legislative proposal before us, because we are here now every five minutes. Then there is another report that many of us read five years ago. Come on, let's go! I'm running out of patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u416	I translate this in such a way that there is another same interruption. The request is made again whether you can really indicate the relevance to the legislative proposal of the blocks that you are going to do. In addition, the request is to come slowly to the point you now find of this bill. You have the floor, Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u417	Mr. Chairman. I still have a lot of cubes. I think there's still 38 of them. I'm working on the second block right now. In Chapter 19, I want to look back at what I said in Chapter 1, because I promised it to the House. As far as Mr Van Weyenberg's remarks are concerned, yes, I think this is the crucial difference in how we stand in this debate. You want to go through this law very quickly all the time. That's why we're standing here. If you had given the opposition the opportunity to on an orderly...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u418	I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, Mr. Mulder, because you've already mentioned in your introduction why you have a rather long argument. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg for a further interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u419	You did not see me standing here during Mr Van Rooijen's speech. Some things I had already read in the newspaper, but they were about the present bill. Mr Van Rooijen has that right. He did that handsomely, though I disagree with him on many points. What Mr Mulder is doing, I think, quite frankly, is a bit of a play. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, not to ask Mr Mulder to come slowly but surely to the present law, but to get to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u420	Mr. Van Weyenberg, I'm guarding order here myself, but the request is clear. Once again, I appeal to Mr Mulder to make it really clear. Mrs De Vries, you had an interruption earlier, but it appears to me that you are not doing so. You continue your argument, Mr. Mulder. I repeat the feeling in this Chamber that the cubes you still want to deal with must have a clear relevance to the legislative proposal. You must also state that in advance. In the end, you should also indicate what you think of the bill. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u421	Of course, but what I think of the bill comes to the end of course, because that is what we are working towards in this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u422	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u423	Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about the Reform Agenda Housing Market, which appeared on 17 September 2013. It sought to outline a link between the various measures announced. To comply with the request about what that has to do with the Hills Act, I say the following. It was about a better functioning buying market with manageable debt and a risk reduction, thereby creating a competitive and transparent mortgage market. I think that is a first step towards meeting my colleague's request. That said, the right to mortgage interest deduction was thus linked to a full repayment during the maturity of the debt. A permanent reduction in the transfer tax was achieved. The temporary deductibility of residual debts was also realised. These residual debts could be co-financed, albeit under strict conditions. Mr. Chairman. This created a competitive and transparent mortgage market. At least that's what was said. The government wants there to be sufficient competition in that mortgage market and to reduce barriers to entry and capacity restrictions. I have not been able to introduce the Kroes committee to you, because I had to skip it, but this Kroes committee, which had been set up for this purpose, has examined the possibilities for setting up a National Mortgage Institution, the so-called NHI. In doing so, institutional investors with guarantees from the Dutch State could play a major role in the financing of mortgages. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u424	I'm gonna interrupt you anyway. We've just had some interruptions. It clearly states that there is no need for a very clear emphasis on the past. You are requested to work towards it to indicate what you think of this bill. I'll give you space for that. I really want to ask you to respond to that. I also see an interruption at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u425	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mulder, the President is a little harsh on you. However, that is understandable, because you have, of course, invented a strategy and a structure for your story in advance. You also thought in advance that it would take a very long time. We in the Chamber have a bit of a problem with that. I know Mr Mulder as someone who is constructive. This is also evident from the way in which he has already shortened his story over the last few hours. Can I suggest to Mr Mulder that we consider the follow-up to his strategy and the way in which he would like to come to the Hills Act? Perhaps this will save us a great deal of time, time and every time we interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u426	I thank Mr Snels for his kind words. He's kind of hitting the core of the story. The problem is that I chose a particular structure. Now I'm being forced to take out parts of that structure, and then I get the blame again that it's incoherent. But that depends on the fact that I have to leave out parts of my story. This is therefore extremely difficult, including for those who are trying to follow this debate. I really need to skip lots of pieces. Then suddenly a rental committee comes along that I have not been able to introduce properly into this debate. We've agreed on a certain procedure. I think it is my right to tell you what I think of the Hills Act and why I have come to it and why I want to convince you that it is not good to abolish it. I'd still like to appeal to you to let me tell you that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u427	I will give the floor to Mr Snels, because he made a suggestion, and I think he has another suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u428	Well, I understand Mr Mulder's problem. That's exactly what I said. He chose a structure, but building the story is exactly the problem. A previous chairman said: take a minute to think about what you would like to say now. Perhaps we should suggest that you take five minutes to think about what you really want to do with the Hills Act and to adjust your strategy and build up a little bit. Then we'll be able to get on with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u429	If I may say so, I don't think that's a good idea. I like the call. But I would also like to give the opportunity for another interruption. Maybe in the meantime you can think about the cubes and the strategy. Then we can move on quickly after that. But first I give Mr Omtzig the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u430	I'm trying to follow Mr Mulder. He is now talking about 2013, where the first issue is the mandatory discharge. That was indeed introduced by Rutte II. After that, he says that in 2013 the transfer tax went down. However, this was done in 2011. That was under Rutte I. That wasn't part of the plan at all. Then he's talking about the deductibility of the rest of the debt. It's only been done a few years later. In other words, all the things that are now thrown into one pot did not happen at all at the indicated time. I would therefore ask Mr Mulder to... I'm just trying to follow what you're saying, Mr. Mulder. Those things just didn't happen together. Do we have to stop the fiction that we are seriously working on a bill here? Or is it enough if there is just something about rent, purchase or mortgage interest deduction in every second sentence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u431	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u432	I think it's a bad thing. I quote from a report on a summary of Rutte II's policy. It's not that I'm making this up, that I've brought in other reports. I'm trying to follow a logical build-up, but that's gonna be really hard for me when things get taken out. If I can no longer pronounce matters here, the causal link between developments will disappear. So exactly what we are seeing now happens: people who listen get lost on the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u433	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u434	That's why I'd much rather just discuss the whole report with you. Because then it makes sense. And, again, I didn't make this report. It is a summary of Rutte II's housing market policy, which is a run-up to trying to abolish the Hills Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u435	Thank you. Clear. I give the floor to Mr Omtzig to finish his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u436	It is very simple: the measures of Rutte II and Rutte I are completely confused. That simply does not seem to get through to the debate. I would like to ask the President what purpose an overview of all the reports on the housing market has in order to arrive at balanced questions as to whether the legislative proposal before us is good, whether improvements are possible, or whether the articles of the legislative proposal before us are good. That is what the debate should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u437	I also notice that the interruptions are becoming a repetition. That is another appeal to you, Mr Mulder. As President, I think it is important to translate what is stated in the Chamber. That is that until now you have not been able to indicate the relevance to the legislative proposal. There is also a strong need for different parties to have this net indicated that you are now going to indicate what you think of the bill. I'll give you a chance to do that. But if I translate what's happening in the Chamber now, that's the patience that's running out. I would very much like to convey to you the request that we really come to the point. I give you the opportunity to do so, but there is another interruption by Mr Azarkan. Is that a repeat or do you really want to add something new?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u438	It's a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u439	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u440	But I'm gonna wrap it up anyway. It is not relevant whether that transfer tax went down in 2011. That was temporary. In 2012, on May 25 or so, it became permanent. It's about something else. I ask Mr Mulder for the last time: what is the connection with the Hills Act? If you can turn me in, I'll listen much more intrigued. Otherwise, I'll have to think of it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u441	Thank you. It's a repeat. Once again, as the previous President said, it is not a theatre here, we want to have a serious debate with each other. It's up to you to put that out like this. I'm giving you another chance, but it's important to get real now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u442	I'd almost say you're doing it again. 'Cause I've been with...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u443	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u444	But with all due respect, you've allowed me to handle this report because it was about the law. I asked nicely in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u445	Mr. Mulder, you continue your argument. We are now repeating ourselves. There has been a clear call from several parties. I'm giving you a chance to really come to the point right now and tell me what you think of the bill. You will have the opportunity to do so. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u446	Then I'll walk over and say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u447	Let's get back to the meeting. I would ask colleagues to take their seats again. I call Mr Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u448	Mr. Chairman. Despite all the friendly requests... Oh, he's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u449	I see that the Secretary of State is out of his place, which I can imagine, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u450	Mr. Chairman. The outstretched hand comes very clearly from the PVV tonight. I have a certain argument, which I must constantly interrupt and turn in. I will put this report, which has a clear connection with the Hills Act, next to me. At the request of the SGP, I will proceed with the amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001, in the hope that the amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001 is linked, according to my colleagues, to the amendment of the Income Tax Act 2001. I don't see anyone getting up, so... The mortgage interest deduction, or, strictly speaking, the tax treatment of income from own homes, has been one of the most discussed components of the Dutch tax system in the last two decades. For years, attention has been paid to the need for a review of the tax treatment of income from own homes. As from the introduction of the Income Tax Act 2001 the scope of the home housing scheme has been reduced several times. The euro crisis has highlighted the need for debt reduction at both macro and micro level. I will also look at all three aspects for my colleagues. At the time there was a cabinet reaction to the Kuiper motion. The cabinet had included a detailed analysis of the background to the current home housing scheme, the development of the property debt, the budgetary attachment of the mortgage interest deduction, market development and recent policy on home ownership. Following that analysis, the Cabinet concludes that the risk profiles of households vary widely. In particular, the recent buyer with a high mortgage in relation to the value of the property runs the risk of getting into payment problems or remaining debt when this owner moves, for example, as a result of a change of work or as a result of divorce or a break-up. Half of the mortgage file contains mortgages that are refund-free. Ultimately, payment and legal debt risks can influence financial stability. Public finances may also be put under pressure if too much recourse is made to the national mortgage guarantee. At present, despite the economic crisis, the risks remain limited. The developments show that there are real vulnerabilities. According to the Cabinet, these vulnerabilities should not have the effect of abolishing the deduction of interest on a loan entered into for the acquisition, maintenance or improvement of the home.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u451	I see another interruption by Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u452	What was just told, I found an interesting assumption. It's about the government getting into trouble when too many people use the national mortgage guarantee and the government should guarantee it. This is a very interesting subject. Does Mr Mulder agree with me that even in the time of crisis, the assets of the national mortgage guarantee have increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u453	Are you referring to the banking crisis we are suffering from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u454	Yes, even at that time, the number of people forced to sell went from 800 to 2,400. Interestingly, at that time too, the assets, i.e. the reserves of the national mortgage guarantee, increased instead of getting into trouble because the money was going to run out, as the government's estimate was then.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u455	If that is the case, then I knew that is not just a reason to be cautious about the measures we are about to take. For one thing is clear: the abolition of the Hills Act would not contribute to this. That's right. I'm glad to be reminded of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u456	I see another interruption by Mrs De Vries. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u457	I would like to make an order proposal, namely to limit the speaking time per party to 15 minutes on the basis of Rule 68.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u458	There must be a majority for that. So I'd like to ask a response from the other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u459	But, then I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u460	I give...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u461	Yes, but I also have an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u462	No, an order proposal has been made. I'll give you a chance first...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u463	Yes, but I have an order proposal, Mr. Chairman. I would like that order proposal to be put to the vote by roll call.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-23.u464	Let me give you a chance to respond to the proposal that has just been made. I'm gonna go take stock first. We are going to vote by roll call on the proposal that has just been made. I suggest that we take a moment and vote in about 20 minutes, five minutes or fifteen minutes. I'll stick to 15 minutes.
