ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, the AD read that status holders are actively recruited to work in the technical sector with a free emergency training based on a permanent contract. This is possible through a grant pot of EUR 20 million that was released by Minister Asscher in 2015. How is it possible? How is it possible that while hundreds of thousands of Dutch people are unemployed at home, in the WW or in the assistance, or from flex job to flex job and have been able to whistle for years to a permanent job, and yet difficult to make ends meet, how is it possible that this minister is now giving free training and permanent jobs to status holders? This prevention of status holders must stop. That's why I have the following questions. Why does this minister replace Dutch employees with status holders, while according to the latest figures of the UWV more than 50,000 people are registered who are eager to work in construction, transport or technology? Is the Minister prepared to stop promoting status holders vis-à-vis the Dutch unemployed and job-seekers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. This concerns Mrs Parveen Dudock of the company Van Rijndorp Installations. This company has job vacancies that it likes to see fulfilled. Those vacancies are available for everyone, for Dutch and for status holders. The company has even indicated that it has a lot of vacancies left. "Vacancies plenty. We now have to sell clients no because we cannot get enough technical staff." The subsidy is available from the sector plan to train people. This subsidy is for young people to get to work, regardless of their origin or background. It is also used by companies to train young people. This company has found that it has not succeeded with only Dutch people who have lived here for a long time and it is pleased that status holders can work there. I have a question for Mr De Jong. I know he doesn't want to receive refugees at all, but if you take care of them, it seems to me better for the refugees and for the Netherlands that they are working. That is the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u3	What is very important to the PVV and what seems very good to us is that this Minister is going to work to help all those hundreds of thousands of people who are now on the sidelines. What matters is that there is a subsidy pool ready to get refugees, status holders or whatever you want to call them to work, while hundreds of thousands of people want a job. I'm zooming in on this case, on exactly what this is about. It's about people who want to work in technology. For example, there are 15,000 WW'ers registered for the metal companies and the technical companies, 31,000 people for transport and logistics and 10,000 people in the construction sector are in the UWV. If you take all the figures together, there are 67,000 current WW benefits in the technical sector. These are people who have a technical background. And what does this minister do? He doesn't say, "We're gonna help these people." This minister says we're gonna get status holders to work. Stop it! My question remains as to why Dutch workers are too low. Why does this minister trade Dutch people for status holders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u4	It is a pity if you repeat the question without listening to the answer. There's an untruth in it. I would like to show that to Mr De Jong. Of course, it's our job to get people back to work. Compared to five years ago, when the PVV decided to only tweet, it's a lot better. A few hundred thousand people who were unemployed then now have a job, thank goodness. But we're not there yet. I'm not satisfied yet. It is precisely in technology that there are a lot of opportunities. There are. This company has vacancies and then it's equal monks equal hoods. Training is available for young people who want to work in the installation industry; nice work, just paid. Everyone's welcome there. Anyone who hears or sees this, let not be fooled by Mr De Jong, who is only angry, there are jobs in the installation industry, including for you, including for you. Make use of that, then make the Netherlands stronger. Just as it is better that status holders who are taken care of here because of their safety are not in a benefit but at work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u5	It's always amazing. If the minister knows he's wrong, he's gonna come up with all kinds of generalities and he's gonna attack the PVV right away. I just asked a few questions. Do you know who's really angry? Those are the people who have been sidelined by hundreds of thousands in recent years. Those are the people that employers kicked out. The Minister is fine with all that, because he focuses on status holders. What matters to us is that there are Dutch people who are on the sidelines, who would very much like to work and who can apply as much as they want, but often do not get to work. My question remains why this minister specifically chooses those status holders. Why does this minister run away from the fact that all these people would very much like to get to work, but that this is not possible at the moment? The Minister can say that there are enough vacancies and that they need to be filled in, but if there is a pot of money that an employer can use to get refugees or status holders to work, then of course he chooses for them and not for a Dutchman. And this minister goes along with that. But for us all these Dutch workers are not too bad. They're not too lazy for work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u6	I hear you interrupting, Minister. I'll give you the floor in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u7	It is very important for us that this Minister should stop replacing Dutch workers with status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u8	Such hypocrisy from the PVV. Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u9	Just answer the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u10	Here's your answer: for five years, I have been able to spend money in front of the gates of hell to keep older Dutch workers working, to give young people a job. And for five years, the PVV was against it. You weren't here yet, but your colleagues were against it. Those sector plans, that subsidy pot, that's what you're talking about, and suddenly, now that some status holders are finding a job, the PVV has woken up. It is our view: just as you continued to support the right-wing policy, 'no, the market must do that', we have ensured that people remain at work. A lot of people didn't, but a lot of people did. Instead of expressing appreciation for this and getting more people to work, the PVV is now going to cry crocodile tears and find a job for some status holders who also want to work. And yes, those vacancies are available to everyone. For every Dutchman who sees this now: that company still has vacancies. Stop selling nonsense, just go do your job and realize that at first you just say no to measures that help people, whether it's measures for truck drivers you were against it, because imagine: Europe or for sector plans you were against it, because imagine that the money costs.... and now, five years after that, crocodile tears, is very hypocritical.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u11	Last sentence. You have 14 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u12	Oh, yeah. Big words for a minister in need. By screaming louder, you are no longer right, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u13	I think that's a great statement for a PVV guy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u14	You can all laugh about it now, but the fact is that there are hundreds of thousands of Dutch people on the sidelines and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u15	You haven't done anything about it in years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u16	...and that this minister is abandoning them hard and hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u17	You haven't done anything about it for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u18	You're worthless and that's your responsibility and...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u19	Someone just said something about big words and screaming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you. Mr De Graaf, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u21	I have witnessed for four and a half years how this minister, who is shouting through my colleague, really, really, really, truly, it seems like a pig's den on his part has made the labour market look bad. Those sector plans, about 600 million, I believe it cost EUR 2 million per job for what it has achieved. It's a big farce. And that minister tells my colleague De Jong that he's lying? Where does this minister get the brutality from?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u22	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u23	Half of the Netherlands is on apegapen, thanks to Minister Asscher! Then he shouldn't say the PVV was against his wrong plans. We were right to oppose his misdeeds, but he killed the place. It cost money, milking lanes 2.0: it doesn't pay off and now it has a big mouth? I'd say back in your booth!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u24	Keep it civilized a little bit. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr De Graaf is helping Mr De Jong. That is good for solidarity in the PVV Group. But it was Mr. De Jong who just said that you shouldn't yell, but you should stick to the facts. The facts are as follows. There was a huge unemployment. We then spent money in this Chamber to keep people in service longer. That certainly did not work for everyone, but it has helped tens of thousands of people, older workers as well as young people. There was money to train people when the companies didn't have the money. That money is well spent. As a result, these young people now have a job, for example in the installation industry. The first time I hear Mr De Jong about these resources, which are intended to help workers, is to complain that status holders are also using them. I think that's weird. It is not clear to me now what the PVV wants, whether it wants to leave people on the benefit or not. As far as I'm concerned, everyone who lives here is going to work, Dutch and status holders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-20-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time.
