ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Roundup, that's the drug South American environmentalists have been warning us about for years. It is widely used for the cultivation of animal feed in Latin America. When you drive around in those areas with your car, you don't see a bug beaten to death against your window, because all life was sprayed to death there. It is also the means on which human rights organisations have regularly called us in the Chamber, because children living in those areas are sick and are suffering from serious complaints. They live in areas dominated by Roundup. The same means is being used in Europe. The European organisation that has to assess whether it is safe says that it is indeed so, even when the World Health Organisation said in 2015 that it is likely to be carcinogenic. What did this European agency do? He accused the World Health Organization of engaging in activist science. "We have ended up in the era of lobby and campaign science, in times of Facebook," said EFSA (European Food Safety Authority). And what did Monsanto do with the World Health Organization (WHO) warning? It launched an attack strategy to secure, among other things, European admission. Of course, EFSA had to deal with the WHO's statements. On 15 March another European authority said: we know for sure now, it is not carcinogenic. The same week, the judge in America published all sorts of documents showing that Monsanto itself has contributed to the assessment and that studies highlighting the danger have been dismissed. Is EFSA in her shirt? Now EFSA says that it is serious that Monsanto has affected the entire investigation in a far-reaching manner. The Dutch authorisation authority, Ctgb (College for the authorisation of plant protection products and biocidal products), says the same thing, but the question is what conclusions and consequences do we draw. It can't be that Monsanto can use its large budgets to try to make the conclusions come to its own advantage and that there's no consequence if the company gets caught? What does the Secretary of State say? What is the consequence of the cabinet? As far as the Animal Party is concerned, the European Commission's intention to extend by 10 years at the end of this year the authorisation of arthropods is not at all relevant. Can the Secretary of State make it clear that he will at least not agree to a ten-year admission? Can the Secretary of State also say that from now on the Dutch position is that we are not blindly following EFSA's findings and conclusions? Firstly, because the investigations on the basis of which it draws conclusions are not public, whereas the government does, and are not independent, as has now been shown. Secondly, because we always have to make our own independent political assessment, where the World Health Organisation apparently, as Ctgb admits, has a different role than the admission authorities. I thought the health interests were supposed to be at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr. Chairman. Agriculture must feed us, but it must also take place with respect for nature. Where possible, therefore, D66 argues in favour of producing in balance with nature. Chemical plant protection products often do not fit in well. They break natural processes, for the sake of food security or business operations. I wholeheartedly support the efforts to minimise the use of such resources. If there really is no other option than to use them, they must be used safely. Science and facts are supposed to be guiding them. It's hard to do that for pomegranates. The debate on this issue is heated. After a breath of one and a half years, European agencies and the World Health Organisation still differ as to whether the substance is carcinogenic. There is also uncertainty about its effects and mixtures. In the meantime, there is a proposal from the European Commission to extend the authorisation of satsumas by 10 years. From the same Commission, there is a letter to ECHA and EFSA requesting an explanation as to why eight studies have been omitted which would indicate carcinogenic potential. How does the Secretary of State view that? Does he know why the Commission is right about the maximum extension period? Wouldn't it have made more sense to choose a shorter period of admission? Does he also want more transparency of the underlying studies and considerations? Has his ministry also considered whether traces of influence on the European admission process can be found in the Monsanto Papers? The opinion of the European Chemicals Agency shows that it does not consider the substance to be carcinogenic. However, this agency notes the danger to water quality and water life. That raises a few questions. What about the law on the prohibition of chemical plant protection products for non-professional use? What is the Secretary of State going to do to further reduce the use of these funds in agriculture with biological alternatives? Is it perhaps also an idea to attach a joint declaration by Member States on renewal of the authorisation with a view to limiting the use within agriculture as much as possible? Let us not jump to conclusions in this debate. Let us get the facts straight and then make a responsible decision in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u5	In the past, D66 and the Animal Party have also raised together to be truly critical of the admission procedure, including by means of an approved motion of the Party for Animals and D66 with the aim that the studies on the basis of which those judgments are formed should be public. That is still not the case. We have now seen that our constant fear of independence could be justified. I hear D66 now saying: let us not anticipate things. But surely D66 is subject to the precautionary principle? We have faced this situation before. We then said to the cabinet: we are voting against this extension. Is D66 willing to give that to the cabinet today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u6	Interruptions can be a bit more concise, I'll give them to the other participants. Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u7	We do not want to say at the moment that we reject an extension, but we would like to say that we think that an extension for ten years is very far-reaching and that the investigations that are not yet public should be made public. So that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u8	Fine, thank you for this clear signal. In the absence of the Group of the Party of Labour, I would like to inform the Secretary of State that a considerable part of this House is very critical of the proposed ten-year extension, because the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has already said: we are not going to do that at all, away with that extension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u9	I don't think this was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mrs Van Eijs spoke about a careful consideration in November of the use of fertilizers in agriculture. But there is also use outside agriculture in the Netherlands. We could also take measures to this end. What is D66's opposition to further restricting that use?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u11	There would be a law to prohibit non-professional use in any case. We are asking what is going on with this, because I know that there have already been movements, for example by municipalities, in order not to use these resources anymore. So it also seems logical to me that there should be a legal basis for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u12	I shall then give the floor to Mr Grashoff on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr. Chairman. The European Commission wants to allow the product to be re-admitted for a period of 10 years, while the objective is to achieve less harmful substances for the environment and human beings. Those two things are already difficult to relate to. We regret that decision by the Commission. We are well aware of the serious impact on our environment, biodiversity, soil life, water life and birds. It means that the use of phenylalanine alone should therefore be limited to a minimum, preferably to zero. For many years, water companies have been calling for standards to be exceeded in surface water, ranging from 15% to 30%. In addition, we are having a discussion on health risks and carcinogenism, where I think we should see that this discussion continues and that there is every reason to be concerned about both the independence of the investigations carried out and the limitations of the investigations carried out by the European authorities. That discussion needs to be further explored. Transparency of the underlying investigations and possible influence of investigations should be ensured. Against that backdrop, the re-admission of this product for a period of ten years is truly bowing to multinational Monsanto. GroenLinks attaches great importance to the fact that the Dutch government does not move along with it. Previously, the Chamber adopted a Green Left motion to advocate in Europe full disclosure and transparency in investigations. What happened to that motion? Can the Secretary of State consider whether, as a plaintiff, the Dutch government might be able to join the process initiated by the Green Group in the European Parliament at the European Court in order to ultimately enforce that disclosure? The public interest is above the interests of the multinational, isn't it? The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance wants the European Commission's proposal to be revised. From the point of view of the precautionary principle alone, there is a need for extreme restraint. We need to move towards an agricultural practice that can work completely without or largely without plant protection products. That is where a path must be set out, and that does not correspond to a decision that takes away any incentive for a long time to look for alternatives to focus real research and field experiments on it. GroenLinks asks the State Secretary to call on the Commission to withdraw the proposal and to call for a proposal with a very limited deadline and a clear objective of phasing-out, of phasing-out within a few years. Is the Secretary of State prepared to argue for that? Finally, I would like to stress that we should not wait for action from Europe. The Netherlands itself also has a responsibility to minimise the use of the product. In any case, my motion from 2011 has led to a significant reduction because the use of hardening outside agriculture is prohibited. We can go a lot further. What about the ban on private individuals being investigated? The cure must be removed from the shelves of our garden centers. What else can we do in agriculture, for example in the case of not allowing the use where integrated pest control exists, or not allowing it for dehydration prior to harvest and so on? Could the Secretary of State tell us what he himself intends to do about further restricting the use of this substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u14	I fully agree with GroenLinks' speech. I'd like some clarity on the following. Does GroenLinks also think that we should take decisions today, in the sense that there will be an extension which must be of very limited duration and a plan for phasing out? The risk is that the cabinet will say that there are still investigations going on and that the bottom stone must first emerge. The longer you wait to make those decisions, the stronger the argument is going to be: there is no alternative, so we can only continue this extension. Is GroenLinks with the Party for Animals of the opinion that, even though there are still researches on how this all works...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u15	Would you like to finish your interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u16	... it's very important to clear up today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u17	I believe that I have already made this quite clear in my speech, but I would like to repeat it if necessary. No, an extension of ten years is not at all proportionate to the uncertainties that exist. Then you choose a very short term and a route to phase-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mr. Chairman. Then you're a new MP and you want to have a good debate, but then today probably isn't the time. A good debate is, of course, about content, but also about timing. When it comes to timing, we are at the wrong place here today. The decision of the European Commission is not yet there. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this debate is premature. Of course, the CDA also wants economic activities to be negligible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u19	That is a special one from Mr von Martels. We're in the middle of a debate with the Secretary of State right now. As Mr von Martels also knows, a European decision ultimately comes about in consultation with the Member States. It's the Council's turn. If there is a time when we can actually send this Secretary of State a message, it is now. Mr von Martels will agree with me, won't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u20	We would rather wait for the decision of the European Commission. That decision is not yet in place. An opinion has been given and it has now been suspended. That is what we want to wait for. In this respect, it is still unfounded to say the necessary things at this stage. In the course of my speech, I will undoubtedly also explain to Mr Grashoff why I have spoken these first words.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u21	It's still special. In this kind of decision-making, you know that there is a start-up period and that it is extremely important how Member States position themselves. So it may seem like this, but perhaps Mr von Martels can take away my fear that his plea not to talk about it now because it is untimely is actually a plea to allow the remedy unlimited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u22	No, I'm not saying that. I also regret that you are interrupting so quickly, because you should wait and see what else I have to say. I'll make it all clear, within the three minutes I'm commanded. For the moment, I think this debate is premature today. I would like to talk about it again at another time, but at this time and certainly because the European Commission has not yet delivered an opinion, it is too early to talk about the consequences of the use of satsumas in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u23	During the election campaign, the CDA repeatedly indicated that we should not leave everything to Europe and that we should also make a lot of national decisions. Does Mr von Martels think that it should also be the same with regard to the decision on whether or not to allow the use of satsumas? Does he think that this should be a national decision, just a national decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u24	No, I certainly don't. We must look very closely at the consequences of the use of satsumas. I am also looking at all kinds of investigations, which have also been carried out abroad. The authorities in America, New Zealand and Europe all say that it is not carcinogenic, as far as we are concerned. We must be able to assume that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr von Martels has certainly also been briefed by experts on the subject, who say that it is highly toxic and also endangers the pollinators at the beginning of our food cycle. That should appeal to a CDA guy. The European Union is hindering our entrepreneurs, who are at the forefront of greening. They are hampered by the use of non-chemical variants. I noticed this during work visits. It must appeal to the CDA to involve the European Union now, even if it is in a positive sense and in a negative sense hinders our entrepreneurs when it comes to greening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u26	I'm certainly not gonna argue for the use of satsumas. That's not my intention. My intention is precisely to make it clear that, as politicians, we should not sit in the chair of scientists. Those scientists are here for us. We have set up institutes to enable them to do really good scientific research into the dangers. That's what matters to me. I would like to talk about the scientific advice before we, as politicians, can make a good decision. That is why my plea is aimed at taking a good look at that. In that sense, therefore, the debate is premature for me today, because the European Commission is certainly going to have to make a good statement first because it is going to look closely at all the scientific evidence. The advice has now been suspended and we are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u27	I understand that Mr Graus has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u28	Certainly, for the Acts and for the people who are watching at home and are now being misinformed. Vewin has indicated that it's poison, and this is important...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u29	This is not a point of order. You'll have your own input later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u30	But it's poison. And that's it. That's it. It's a poison. End of exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u31	This is not a point of order. Mr von Martels continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u32	I understand that time has stood still and that I have 2 minutes and 34 seconds left. The CDA wants the risks of economic activities to be negligible. This also applies, of course, to plant protection products. For example, EFSA, the European Chemicals Agency and our national authorities are looking at the authorisation of plant protection products. This debate is about more than just a discussion about a pesticide. As far as my group is concerned, today's debate is about a principle, namely our role as politicians. In times of populism, the debate at its core is about trust. Then it is also about trust in our institutions, institutions that we have set up ourselves. The potential harm is to undermine the credibility of our institutions, institutions built to protect our society. The selective way in which scientists are dealt with is, in any case, striking. Recently this was described nicely in the Volkskrant. When it comes to climate, they are placed on a pedestal. But when it comes to gene technology, for example, they are often sidelined. We have independent authorities that assess substances and resources. I myself am neither a scientist nor a chemist, nor have I researched the possible effects of substances. Nor do we set up our system in this way. If there is new information, it is used by scientists in independent bodies to monitor and, where necessary, modify an authorisation granted. Of course, we take the concerns of residents seriously. But we're not gonna sit on the scientists' chairs. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is far too early for the end of satsumas. We're not in favour of a "glaxit" right now. The CDA would like to hear from the State Secretary about the state of play on the Commission proposal. My group also calls for a response from the Secretary of State to the investigations and opinions of the German authorisation authority, the BfR, EFSA and the European Chemicals Agency. In addition, it has come out that the Commission intends to allow turnips for 10 years. The CDA would like to know how the Secretary of State looks at that information. Can he explain whether he intends to plead for a longer or shorter admission, and if so, why?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u33	I have a quick question. If the CDA says we have to have faith in the scientists, then I'll ask myself the following. EFSA says it's safe. But the World Health Organization's international cancer agency writes in a letter to EFSA: well, in view of the research we are seeing and our assessment, we feel a little uncomfortable with your conclusion. Which institution should we trust, according to the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u34	Mrs Ouwehand refers to the IARC. Of course, I have also read that scientific research. I have also seen that it is placed in category 2A. Among other things, this includes red meat, to name but a few. The study and the scientific analysis of the use of IARC arthropods was conducted less well and thoroughly. The investigation of the other authorities, albeit those in Australia, America or New Zealand I've just named them all out has been much more thorough. That is why we are leading the way: the most thorough scientific research and the most thorough support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u35	There, go ahead! And that's about a cure that gives farmers cancer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u36	What are you saying? You're saying something that I think is: why do you say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mrs Ouwehand has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u38	Let me summarize what the CDA is saying here. The EFSA assessment, which now shows that many of the studies on which it formed its opinion have been significantly influenced by Monsanto, considers the CDA to be more reliable than the independent scientists of the World Health Organisation's international cancer agency. That's somethin'!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u39	That's somethin'! But what you just said is a lot to me, too. Luckily, you withdrew your words in good time. We regard the scientific research that has been done very thoroughly as leading. Of course we are also listening to the IARC, but as I said at the beginning of my speech, this debate is far too early as far as I am concerned. Let's see what all these scientists say first. We want to take a stand on this. To determine that, at least we need science. That is the essence of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u40	Mr von Martels' argument concerns me, perhaps because I am also a spokesperson of science. You're right, you shouldn't be selective. I will certainly repeat those words when Mr Geurts talks again about the conclusions of the Planning Office for the Environment. But the criticism of an organisation such as EFSA and its investigations is not only there because people do not like the message. It also focuses on the fact that they do not disclose their sources. They use research that cannot be looked at by other scientists, while that is, of course, the essence of science. Does Mr von Martels not see any legitimate criticism of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u41	Of course, we'll take a good look at that. That is why it is almost natural that the European Commission has not yet reached a final verdict, because it is also looking at the Monsanto Papers and the critical comments that have been made. But we shouldn't just be guided by the images. Let's base ourselves on the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u42	Following on from Mr von Martels' last remark, 'let us base ourselves on the facts': in my speech I indicated that one of the facts is that the environmental damage of the substance is not under discussion. It's just been proven. Mr Graus (PPE), rapporteur. - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report. Also in the Netherlands you notice a huge difference between 30 years ago and now, in the amount of insects you will find when you drive your car across the highway. The pollinators in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u43	Can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u44	Would Mr von Martels comment on the argument of environmental damage? Can he indicate if he agrees with me that for that reason, apart from the discussion about cancer, you should keep this medicine to the minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u45	I fully agree with you that you need to look closely at the use and dosage of it. In the past enough measures have been taken to this end. I don't know if you have any experience with it, but I'm a dairy farmer myself. On our own company Roundup is also used to spray grassland to death, but after five days the cows could get back on. That was allowed then, wasn't it? Not that you've ever noticed any effects; no, never. You have to use it in itself very dosed. You're not gonna take an overdose. In these situations, the environment in the Netherlands has so far not been affected. So I don't agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u46	I am going to remind Mr von Martels once again of his statement that you must stick to the facts. The environmental damage caused by the use of this product, precisely in the kind of application he is talking about today, is precisely why grasslands have become ecological deserts, why we lose our pollinators and why our insects and soil life are being destroyed. Mr von Martels must stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u47	I'd love to. We are in complete agreement on that. We're definitely gonna do that. I hope that this does not give the impression that I am here to make a plea for the use of satsumas. It's not like that at all. I would like to emphasise once again that we need to look closely at the effects of its use. As politicians, we are not in a position to make a decision. That's what science and scientists need to do. That's what I'm arguing for right now. In that sense, I think today's debate is premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u48	I'm glad you don't want to base your own experiences on science. Science also indicates that many things have not yet been investigated and may still be relevant for research, including the compositions. Don't you think there should be more research before we say we're going to allow it for another ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u49	The drug has been in use for several decades and the studies have not been limited in recent years to a single study. I've already said it's being investigated worldwide. These studies have always shown that it is not a carcinogen and that it must be used in the correct dosage, otherwise it may cause environmental damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u50	It is not just a question of carcinogenism but also of environmental damage. There are still questions about this, including in its composition. You say now: I think enough research has been done, do ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u51	I do not call for additional research, but I would point out that scientists are now going to judge on the basis of experience we have gained so far. We can only conclude that no risk of carcinogenic potential has been identified for the time being. In relation to the environment, we all know that you have to use the medicine in the right dosage. So I am not in favour of abolishing arthropods at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u52	Thank you. You were at the end of your speech, I believe?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u54	Then I give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u55	Mr. Chairman. Glyfosate or simply Roundup rightly keeps the moods busy. No pesticides that are used so much, no pesticides that so many concerned citizens have questions about and no pesticides that affect such economic interests. A final European decision will be taken in November and there is much at stake. It is no wonder, therefore, that a European citizens' initiative to ban arthropods already has hundreds of thousands of signatories. A lot of the discussion on arthropods is about whether or not it is carcinogenic. There is a report from the World Health Organisation International Agency for Cancer Research which states that this is likely to be the case. There is a report from EFSA, the European Agency, which states that it is not. The authors of the two reports propose that their conclusions be presented. What is an important difference is that the World Health Organisation report is based on published scientific research and that EFSA relies on unpublished research that it does not want to make public because it would harm commercial interests of the companies concerned, read producer Monsanto. As a result, we are now in the absurd situation that MEPs have gone to the European Court to force a European agency to make sources public. Monsanto's behaviour also seems to give rise to caution. I refer briefly to Mrs Ouwehand's speech. I wrote that down in advance and she didn't disappoint me. Mr. Chairman. I cannot say that it is a carcinogen or Roundup, but when it comes to public health, the precautionary principle applies: in case of doubt, do not do so. Let's not fool ourselves, we're talking poison here. There is no scientist who will not admit that arthropods is unhealthy and is harmful to the environment and eyes anyway. A quote: "Reduce distribution. Keep out of sewers, drains, ditches and watercourses." This quote is not an opinion of the SP, Milieudefensie or Greenpeace but comes from the safety sheet of the product Roundup itself, from Monsanto. But it's in our drains, it's in our locks, and it's in our watercourses. It's even in our groundwater, in large quantities. As early as the 1990s, structural standard overruns of the amount of fertilizers were found, including in groundwater in drinking water production. It is no wonder, therefore, that drinking water companies are asking, almost begging, for action to reduce the hundreds of thousands of kilos of Roundup distributed in the Netherlands. Take a congregation like Amersfoort. In her fight against the Japanese thousand-knot large-scale pine, he even calls on citizens to report when they encounter the plant in parks, beds or their own backyard, so that the municipality can come and spray it, where the municipality is kind enough to warn citizens that they should not let their dogs out for a while where this happened. This is irresponsible. Is the Secretary of State prepared to address this municipality and other municipalities that do so to their behaviour? It is time for a complete European ban on the use of Roundup. In any case, there should be no new ten-year extension. The Netherlands must do what it can, but it must also do what it can. I'll finish, Mr. Chairman. In 2015, Secretary of State Mansveld promised to halve the sale of Roundup to private individuals in 2016. There would be an evaluation of that. Where's the evaluation? Why isn't there yet? And isn't it time for a definitive ban on the sale of Roundup to private individuals?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a possible extension of the authorisation of satsumas. I say 'possible' because at the moment we do not know what the flag is. Glyphosate is a medicine that is mainly used as a pest control agent in agriculture. It prevents the storage of old plants, which cause diseases in new plants, and it ensures that crops have enough space to grow. Public health is at the forefront of the VVD. If it appears that the substance could be dangerous to humans, nature or the environment, then such a substance should be banned or strict conditions should be laid down for its use. It is therefore a good thing that research is being carried out into the effects of certain substances. It is important that these investigations are conducted independently and on the basis of science, not by industry, but also by left-wing clubs pursuing a different agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u58	It's about cancer all the time now, but all the experts have agreed that.......................................................................................................................................................................................... That is also scientifically true; that is a fact. Now Mrs Lodders of the VVD has also received the letter from Vewin (Association of drinking water companies in the Netherlands), in which she states that for years in cross-standard concentrations in surface water and ground water used to make drinking water, the................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mrs. Lodders got that letter, too. Now Mrs. Lodders says...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u59	Can you come to the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u60	I'm sorry, but I have to quote that. Now Mrs Lodders says: if it has been shown that it is harmful, then we are against it. Why isn't she against it now that it's been proven? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u61	Because there have been a number of scientific studies, which I shall come back to later, in Europe. And I agree with Mr Graus that in certain chemical substances we are talking in this case about fertilizers, but we are also talking about the plastic in our coffee cup, which can be harmful if you use it in very large quantities. That's where the crux is. That is also why I just indicated that, when it comes to public health, you should always consider whether it can be used at all and in what quantities. Of course, there's a big difference. So please, I would like to say to Mr Graus, let us also look at what this medicine is used for. This medicine is not just used. It is used to ensure that we are able to produce sufficient quality food. That's what we need it for. It is being used as little as possible, because before Mr Graus moves to the bees and the pollinators of this world, farmers depend on it. So they deal with that carefully and are careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u62	Not only the interruptions but also the answers need to be shorter, I'll give everyone along. Mr Graus, a brief follow-up interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u63	We are Dutch representatives of the States General. We represent our own animals and our own people. We must be able to decide for ourselves. We have nothing to do with Brussels bureaucrats or multinationals. Our own Vewin, I trust, warns that it is risky for our drinking water. Come on, trust our own people sooner. It's marked as a high-risk substance, so please cut it out!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u64	I have received a lot of letters in recent weeks and I have read a lot of research. The VVD makes its own assessment. Once again, scientific assessments are important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u65	I hear Mrs Lodder saying that it is necessary for our food production and beyond as little as possible. Can the VVD agree to a private ban outside agriculture? It will not then be used for food supplies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u66	Such means must always be used very carefully. We are opposed to a ban, even outside agriculture, because recreational companies, for example, can handle it very carefully. The ban on hardening has increased the amount of cleaning vinegar on the shelves. Maybe not scientifically researched, but it can be seen in practice: cleaning vinegar may be much more harmful to the environment than responsible use of turnips. A number of organizations are slinging all kinds of horror stories into the world about pomace. For example, it would be carcinogenic. This one-sided coverage scares people, while it is not certain whether this is actually the case. In fact, recent research by the European Chemicals Agency, carried out at the request of the Commission, has shown that there is no relationship between arthropods and cancer. The VVD believes it is important that the authorisation of resources, including fertilizers, is carried out on the basis of scientific research. Then it has been a wise decision by the Commission to postpone the final decision on the renewal of the authorisation of arthropods to the opinion of the European Chemicals Agency. But now that the outcome of that study is clear and in line with the conclusion of previous research by the European Food Authority (EFSA), the VVD believes that on the basis of this scientific assessment we can take the next step. The VVD is opposed to a ban on the use of arthropods, both at European and national level. We have seen the cost increases that have led to a ban on the use of this product, for example in the case of hardening, and it is the entrepreneurs, but also the people in the country, the taxpayers, who pay for these costs. A wider ban will only lead to a further increase in costs for people and entrepreneurs. But a ban will also be a risk to agriculture and the production of our high-quality and affordable food. Decision-making must take place on the basis of facts and not on the basis of emotion. The VVD has asked for a letter, which addresses where the Commission currently stands in its decision-making. Unfortunately, we didn't receive that letter. That is a pity, but is it true that in the middle of this year a proposal is being made to extend the authorisation on the basis of scientific research? Does the Secretary of State and the VVD consider that the results of this investigation justify an extension?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u67	The European Chemicals Agency indeed said on 15 March that it is safe. But in that same week, all sorts of pieces came out in the open about the way in which Monsanto has greatly influenced the underlying pieces. Even EFSA says that this is serious. Doesn't that matter to the VVD at all? In fact, I understand from Mrs Lodder's speech that she knows enough now, so that turnips can be admitted to the European market for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u68	This is not the only research that has been done in the past period. The files on Monsanto are currently under the judge. There is therefore a judgment on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u69	I don't understand it so well. If citizens make all kinds of attempts not to pay their taxes, the consequence is not only that they have to pay the tax if they are caught. Then there's a fine on that, because such goodbye is unacceptable. Does the VVD find it explaining that you use two different standards? If citizens try to undermine and get caught, there are sanctions. But if the big business tries to do that, like Monsanto now, the only consequence would possibly be that it doesn't get permission. By the way, the VVD believes that Monsanto can continue. Therefore, trying to influence this European decision-making in a far-reaching way has no other consequences, whereas EFSA itself says that it is serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u70	What Mrs Ouwehand is doing here is condemning Monsanto in her own speech. That's under the judge, and that's where it belongs. Scientific research is scientific research. Scientific is not research with one-sided information from the business community, but also not the one-sided research of all kinds of environmental clubs with their horror stories.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u71	I'm trying to fit in with Mrs. Lodder's thinking. It is concerned about additional costs for citizens. I can understand that. But does she agree with me that if water companies have to incur additional costs in order to re-purify arthropods from their groundwater, those costs will eventually end up with users, that is to say anyone who drinks water?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u72	Whatever means we are talking about, they must be used carefully and responsibly. If costs are incurred, this is not new, as has already been the case in the past period, these costs will be passed on to citizens. So I think it is important that conditions of use are laid down. I do not know whether Mr Futselaar has ever used this kind of means. I don't think so when I hear his question like that. But there are awfully many conditions for it. In practice, I note that there is a strong control of it, at least in the business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u73	I do not use it often, but I have just quoted the conditions in my speech. One of them is that you have to stop it from getting locked up. I think it would be wise to take that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u74	Sure. It is very sensible to ensure that it does not end up in the ditch, because these funds are far too expensive for that. The margins in agriculture, among farmers, are already very small, so they will deal with them very carefully. And for the people who do waste it, it's not a problem, it's a big deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u75	I have to say that in recent years the VVD has not supported any proposal for any restriction or regulation in the field of pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine pine So I think the stories that you have to be careful are a bit for the stage. Mrs. Lodder's talking about left-wing clubs doing research. Can she explain to me what investigations she is referring to?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u76	Over the past period I have seen a lot of coverage and research on this. That money is not only for this medicine, but also for other resources. I don't want to base myself on that. I would like to base myself on those bodies that we have set up for this in the Netherlands as well as in Europe, but certainly worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u77	I note that Mrs Lodders cannot mention any concrete examples of left-wing hobby club investigations, which actually vents a gut feeling at this table, when she said earlier that you have to base yourself on facts. There is no study of hobby clubs; there is research of scientists. And those investigations contradict each other. That's what's happening right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u78	If Mr Grashoff appreciates it, I will send him a number of such studies and publications. Then he can make his own judgement about it and see that there is a very different message, a very different agenda of these kinds of clubs. However, the VVD is about scientific research. On that basis, you can make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u79	Mr. Chairman. On 15 November 2012, I tabled a motion asking the government to examine what chemicals could possibly be replaced by non-chemical variants. That motion was virtually supported by the entire Chamber of Commerce which is unique for a PVV motion except of course by the VVD. Apparently, there are fewer people and animals. Even the CDA supported that motion back then. The CDA took on its responsibilities and I also noticed with Mr von Martels that he will be heading in the right direction. I think it's been about the bees and the other pollinators since 2008. They have always been the core, because at that time there was absolutely no question at all that this could possibly, whether or not, cause cancer. That was speculated about, but we can't know that. This must be determined by scientists, possibly with the help of oncologists and other experts. We cannot do that, but one thing was certain: poison and also radiation and certain mites cause massive mortality of bees and other pollinators. Bees and other pollinators are at the beginning of our food cycle. In America movies have been made about what happens when bees and other pollinators die out. That's frightening. Then you just see that the stores are half empty and sometimes even army. That's the point. All we're talking about right now is cancer, cancer, cancer. That is very serious, but it is not yet certain what is true or not. However, these are facts; this is true. Then I say no more catching up; end of practice. Especially with regard to cancer: do not catch up if in doubt. It's about people, animals, public health and animal health. It's about our pollinators. Apart from that, it is a national decision whether or not we allow that poison. That's our decision. That must be a national decision. The Brussels bureaucrats have nothing to do with that, nothing at all. We have the best scientists in the world and the best farmers in the world. That is up to all of us to decide. We have to do that. We have nothing to do with those Brussels bureaucrats. The majority of people in the Netherlands do not want this at all. We are representatives of the people and there is a democracy. So there should be a little more listening to the people. As I said, scientists worldwide warn of major food supply problems, regardless of the cancer. What is the response of the Secretary of State to this? We've put forward alternatives. It is always said, "You only call, you do nothing." We have suggested alternatives: work with steam on paved surfaces. That request of mine has been taken over by municipalities. They've had a lot of success with that. It was relatively also very affordable. It wasn't much more expensive at all. Some municipalities even say it's cheaper. I heard Mrs. Lodder talking about vinegar. I have birds at home, parakeets, which are super sensitive to toxic substances and fumes, even to teflon pans. If I have to disinfect something, I always use apple vinegar on the advice of the best bird doctors in the Netherlands. Those people know more about this than we all do. I therefore believe that it is nonsense that has just been said. This can be used. It depends on what vinegar you use. You can do it with steam. I have put forward other alternatives, but I do not have time to mention them all now, and Mr von Martels wants to ask me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u80	Yes. Then you will also be at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u81	Mr Graus, you have practiced well in my name, because you are clearly speaking it and you are articulating it so well that it is now clear what my name is. You referred to European investigations and you think that we should not base ourselves too much on them and that we should make our own judgement. Do you not think it is important that all kinds of investigations have been carried out worldwide? You tell me I'm moving in the right direction. As far as I am concerned, this is a good direction: to use it responsibly and to listen carefully to the scientific studies that are available.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u82	Sure, I'll share that. The Dutch scientists and doctors also work together internationally. That makes sense; that's what everyone's for. We are also pro-Europe, but against the European Union. We are in favour of European cooperation, also in this area. It makes sense that I share that, but we have the best people and the best farmers. I would also like to say that our farmers are at the forefront of greening. Read LTO's letter. Our farmers are at the forefront of greening rather than chemical weed control, but they are often hampered. During working visits, I noticed that they are being hampered by the European Union and also by the Dutch Government. That is also a question for me to ask the Secretary of State: he must ensure accelerated admission and a faster application of non-chemical weed control, because the farmers who are already doing this are being hampered by the Dutch Government and the European Union. For God's sake, help me with that. Then you also help the entrepreneurs, who you stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mr von Martels has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u84	Would you then argue for a total abolition at the moment or would you like to look at what these scientific advices are going to yield? Or are you not looking at that at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u85	No. We've been, I've been, since 2008, against neonicotinoids and turnips. The PVV has always been very consistent and consistent in this respect. That's how long the pollinators have been dear to us. At that time, there was no question of causing or not causing cancer. The pollinators, so bees and bumblebees, are at the beginning of our food cycle. We cherish them. We need it all over the world. Every scientist shares that with me. Although I'm a PVV tock, they're all behind me. The same goes for the argument I made and for my motion on bees which has been adopted. You know, I've placed a bee hotel here in the States General. In no time it went from 3,000 or 4,000 bees to tens of thousands of bees, because they don't suffer from it in our courtyard. And now all the ministries have bee castles, thanks to the Graus motion. With this I show that the bees thrive there. It's all this shit they're going to screw up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u86	Mr Graus indicated that we have the best farmers in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u88	He always speaks with praise of the peasants. He is very consistent; I cannot contradict that. But what I find so regrettable is that Mr Graus, with his speech, is putting farmers on the sidelines, as if farmers could not use this means responsibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u89	I don't think anyone said that, not even Mrs Ouwehand. At least I didn't hear anyone say it. It's about not using the drug anymore. There are alternatives. I visited farmers who were testing non-chemical weed control. Then some people from the NVWA come in, they have to deal with assholes, and they're gonna block and fine a farmer like that. That farmer's got trials on his pants now. Surely it is too crazy for words that a benevolent person, who goes along with a request from the majority of the Chamber, should be punished in the Netherlands? I find that intriguing and intriguing. You should give me a little more support in that as a large party. Cherish these people, for God's sake. If there's one sheep over the dam, more will follow. If these farmers succeed, other farmers will follow, because that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u90	I can very much agree with Mr Graus on the admission of green resources. It needs to be faster, and we need to find each other in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u91	Yes, I'd like a response from the Secretary of State to that. Thank you. I was running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u92	That's very good, but once again, it's about the use of turnips. That's what we're talking about right now. Of course, there are farmers who are looking for alternatives and are working on them. But for the large group of farmers currently in the Netherlands, we are very far away if there is a total ban above the market. In doing so, Mr Graus is putting that group aside as a group which is irresponsiblely engaged in the use of satsumas. I am fighting that, and I do not share that with Mr Graus. I find that extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u93	Finally, Mr Graus, your answers are very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u94	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. The farmers have always liked this and no one, not even Mrs Ouwehand, has done what Mrs Lodder says. Nobody. We need to help those people with alternatives that are available. It can be done with steam and it can be done with certain types of vinegar. I have mentioned many other alternatives. The Secretary of State must ensure that this is possible. He has to help the farmers. He must cherish and help his sheep like a shepherd. That's what he's gonna do. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u95	Mr. Chairman. Glyphosate is mainly known as Roundup, which is marketed by Monsanto. It's a tool that loosens the moods, even today. At the end of November, Europe will decide on the license of arthropods. Why is it chosen for a period of 10 years? Earlier 15 years and seven years were also on the agenda. Are we talking about a flat compromise? Does the extension mean that the permit has been poured into concrete for ten years or does there remain any possibility of an interim adjustment in the event of changes in insights? What does the Secretary of State put in on behalf of the Netherlands? The European Chemicals Agency and product watchdog EFSA declare that non-carcinogens are not considered to be carcinogenic within the EU, including on the basis of animal studies. In science, however, we see contradictory conclusions. The IARC of the World Health Organisation stated earlier that there is evidence of carcinogenic properties. The World Health Organisation is therefore opposed to our own European institutions. In what way have business studies, for example of Monsanto, been used in EFSA's conclusion? And is it true that studies of lymph node cancer in farmers have been dropped? Last month, a motion was adopted by Mr Grashoff asking the government to make all the investigations on satsumas public. How is this motion implemented? Has the Secretary of State and his Ministry itself already formed a view on the various studies and possible influence from the business community? The drinking water companies warn against adverse effects on nature and the quality of drinking water. How does the final assessment take into account drinking water sources and effects on nature, as well as effects on public health? According to the drinking water companies, pollution in surface water is to a large extent caused by applications outside agriculture. There is now a ban on the professional use of plant protection products on hardening. From November this year this also applies to unpaved surfaces. Last year, the Secretary of State announced in a letter that the NVWA would carry out a compliance survey with municipalities and greening providers, among others. Are there any results of that? How does supervision take place now? Private individuals are not subject to a ban, but to discouragement. However, I see that plant protection products are widely available in shops and in web shops. Do the measures lead to sufficient results? Why is it that the Secretary of State is not already calling for a ban on non-professional users? Isn't that just possible within the Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products Act? The Dutch agricultural sector opts for integrated plant protection and is the leader in this respect in Europe. European countries can learn a lot from this. It is only in the very last instance that chemicals are used. It is important to improve the authorisation of green plant protection. I asked Parliament questions about this earlier this year. Has the Secretary of State already consulted with the agricultural sector on the acute bottlenecks to green crop protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u96	That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u97	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for his first answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u98	Mr. Chairman. The debate is on the extension of the approval of satsumas. At an earlier stage of the same process we discussed this intensively. It's a substance that fights weeds. It is clear, also from this debate, that both the substance and the producer Monsanto often trigger violent reactions. This reflects the discussions on the extension of the authorisation of satsumas for a long time. This has been the case over the past year. Let me first mention the classification as potentially carcinogenic. That was a reason not to extend the approval last year. At that time, under pressure, partly on the basis of a ruling by this Chamber, but also by the efforts of other Member States, it was decided to postpone that decision and to await how ECHA would assess the possible carcinogenic potential and what classification it would lead to. Only then would a new procedure be initiated to decide on possible renewal. In the meantime, more has happened. In the US it became known that the staff of Monsanto would have influenced scientific research or even written scientific papers published under the name of researchers. Let me also say here that these are, of course, scandalous practices that have led to a significant increase in distrust of Monsanto. This puts the debate on the extension of admission in a different light than it was last year, because it is even more about the confidence we can have in the admission and review procedures that we have agreed on. In my view, it is essential that we stick to the credibility of the process we have designed with each other. What is crucial is that we only allow substances on the basis of scientific assessments. In doing so, all risks shall be identified and weighed. The process of reaching such a decision consists of different steps. I think it is very important that we follow these steps and do so carefully. Germany was rapporteur Member State. Germany has assessed the scientific studies and, according to the Regulation, had to do so on the basis of all available scientific knowledge and information. The assessment of Germany was subsequently evaluated by EFSA and the other Member States. The classification of ECHA on carcinogenic properties has also been awaited. The Authority has recently responded to the discussion on the Monsanto Papers and has itself addressed the question whether the facts that have become known could have influenced the assessment of EFSA. EFSA says that this could not have been the case. It is important to say that both the rapporteur Member State, Germany in this case, and EFSA have assessed all the original studies as well as the raw data below. So they not only follow the conclusions, but also assess the data below the studies themselves. In addition, they consulted and consulted all available public literature. This must, of course, ensure that the assessment is careful and that we can trust that if such an assessment indicates that a substance is safe to use or is safe to use under certain conditions, this is actually the case. It is now up to the Commission to weigh up everything on the table and to come up with a proposal. This proposal will then be submitted to the Member States in the SCOPAFF. At that time, the Netherlands must assess what is proposed. Although expectations have been expressed in the media about what the Commission would like to propose, there is no proposal yet. And until there is a proposal, I cannot judge it either. Several members of the Chamber asked in the first term: do you not think there can be no extension of ten years? Mrs Lodder asked the opposite: do you not think that the facts justify a ten-year extension? I can't and I'm not gonna say anything about that. I can't say anything meaningful about that, because there's no proposal. So I cannot judge what is being proposed either. That is why this debate is simply premature. Mr von Martels actually said the same thing. It is simply too early to discuss this with each other, because the proposal does not yet exist. If there is a proposal, which is in line with the expectations of where we are now in the process, the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products (Ctgb) will first assess the content of this proposal and give its opinion on it in the Netherlands. Only then has the appropriate time come for me to assess what lies ahead. Then I will assess the proposal in the light of the opinion issued by the Ctgb. It is expected that decision-making will not take place before October, i.e. in the autumn. In view of the great involvement of the Chamber, I assume that we will speak before then and that the Chamber will exchange views with the Cabinet on this matter. As usual, I give the Chamber an assessment of the Commission's proposal. I shall send it to the House in good time so that it can give its opinion. We can then discuss with each other carefully, as we should, what is on the table and what the Netherlands should think of it. So before we do that, I will not take up any position in the European discussions on this issue either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u99	I'll wait until you're finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u100	This may be a logical moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u101	Well, that's problematic, isn't it? The Secretary of State, like the Ctgb and EFSA, says that it is serious what Monsanto has done, that it is shameful, but at the same time he says that he has sufficient confidence in the assessment systems and the institutions we have built up. That is a bit difficult, because the cabinet also believes that these studies should be public; that is not the case at the moment. What does it say about EFSA that it has now come out that one of those important studies on which it has based itself is an evaluation written by a scientist who has received €1,600 a day from Monsanto to do so? What does the fact that EFSA was shocked and therefore did not know about this? And...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u102	You're asking a lot of questions right now. Shall we get the Secretary of State to answer first?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u103	The system we have set up is a good basis for assessing whether substances are safe, whether they can be safely used, what their effects are on the environment and whether those effects are justified on the basis of a number of conditions that you impose on their use. That assessment is not only based on one paper. EFSA has announced that it has looked at 700 documents, which are many thousands of pages. The study to which Mrs Ouwehand refers is a text written by a ghostwriter, an employee of Monsanto. The assessment is crucial for all raw data, all the studies that have been done and the data that results from them. They shall be evaluated by the Authority. It is quite understandable that you are suspicious of Monsanto after all that has become known. This does not mean, however, that you should immediately be suspicious of the method of assessing these substances that we have agreed on. It is essential that we have confidence in the way in which we arrive at a judgment whether or not it is justified to use a particular substance. If you were only sailing on a paper written by people who are paid by the company applying, none of us would trust that assessment. However, that's not how it works. Extensive research is carried out and these studies are assessed not only on the basis of the conclusions, but on the basis of the raw data below. The assessment procedure is therefore very careful. As a result of the discussions we have had in recent years and the growing distrust in society that I also see, one can ask whether it would be good if we in Europe looked at how the procedure was set up and whether it could be adapted in such a way as to further strengthen confidence. A number of members have suggested: would it not be good if the underlying studies and data become public? In this case, EFSA has already made a lot public and has made it known that it is trying to make more public. That is an important step. This also helps, because this means that many other people can carry out the same assessment and also check whether EFSA's assessment has been justified. I think this is helpful. I think it is good that we are talking about these elements of the procedure, but I think we should be careful whether you can trust the whole procedure, as Mrs Ouwehand says. You can trust that procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u104	Previously, substances have been allowed of which we later became a bit regretful. That puts that inviolable confidence in the procedure in a different light, as well as the lack of openness. In this case, all sorts of documents have eventually become public. In it you can see that independent scientists from the International Agency for Cancer Research have said that there are about 90 people who have said that it is better not to use it or to phase it out under the precautionary principle. The Ctgb says it's just safe, but if you go on asking why the Ctgb is looking at it differently, it says: we have different roles. The role is to protect public health and biodiversity first, instead of looking at what is best for farming practice. That balance of interests is taking place here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u105	There are also substances, plant protection products, which can be harmful to the environment and/or health if used in the wrong way. However, with the correct application of certain usage rules, you can minimise those risks. This is part of the considerations that are made in the authorisation of these substances. It is not just a question of whether there are any risks to the environment or not. public health. It is clear that there are risks to the environment in weed warriors and insecticides. They kill plants or insects. So there are major risks to the environment if you use them wrongly. Therefore, the procedure always examines whether they can be used responsibly and whether the risks can be minimized as much as possible. That's part of the whole process. Only the observation that a substance can be harmful to the environment is therefore insufficient to say that you can never use it. You'd never be able to use plant protection products again. So it is a lot more nuanced than Mrs Ouwehand is putting forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u106	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u107	No, Mrs Ouwehand, you have had two interruptions and they were on the generous side. First, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u108	I'm trying to follow the Secretary of State's reasoning on the trial. If I follow him closely, he actually says that there is no Commission proposal and therefore he cannot have an opinion on it. I don't think it's higher math. The Commission will say: extend or not extend. Extension is then in a certain number of years. Of course, the Netherlands can simply take a position on this. We can already tell you what we think. It is not the case that the Dutch Government only has a European position when there is a concrete proposal from the Commission. On the contrary, this debate is useful because we are now on time with the formation of opinions in Parliament and not following other European decisions. Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u109	No. I think it is important to go through a process like this carefully, step by step. In doing so, we must distinguish between different responsibilities. I have just described that the rapporteur Member State is the first to assess all available scientific studies, all knowledge and studies. That's what Germany did. You may recall that Germany suddenly changed its position in the process a year ago, after the first Member State to give the green light as an evaluating Member State. That's an important fact. It is essential to know what the Germans stand for when a Commission proposal is presented. Do they still support the assessments they have made as an evaluating Member State? A Commission proposal means much more than simply extending yes or no, and for how long. EFSA has now responded to the Monsanto Papers. I am sure that the Commission will take this into account in its proposal and give it a place in it. I want to see it first. I want to see how the Commission is dealing with this situation and with the fact that Monsanto has tried, at least in the US, to influence scientific studies. It is relevant what the Commission is doing with this. The Commission may also lay down conditions for the renewal of the authorisation. That is also relevant for the assessment. We'll all have to know that first. We will first have to see what the Commission is putting on the table before we can judge it. To make some kind of generic judgment, to say now that it doesn't matter what exactly is being put on the table and that you will never agree to it if this is in it, I don't find careful. The first thing the Commission has to do is to be careful. Then we ask the Ctgb to assess the content of the Commission's proposal. There are other elements that need to be assessed. Then the time has come for me to come to an assessment of what the Commission has put on the table. I shall then share that with the Chamber and then we can discuss it in detail here. Then you can tell me if you think I made the right assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u110	Then the difference between us is that I would like the Dutch Parliament to make a statement earlier in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u111	The Secretary of State began his speech with the credibility of the process we agreed on. I really want to have faith in the process, because I'm not a scientist. I want to be able to stick to the facts. Only if I open up the media now will I see that this is a discussion between the World Health Organisation on the one hand and the European institutions on the other. That makes it incredibly difficult. I would very much like the Secretary of State to reflect on that. He now passes the ball to the European Commission every time, which will come up with a proposal. Did the Secretary of State himself and his ministry shed his light on this too? There's a lot of noise. That does not make the debate easy in this Parliament either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u112	That's what I just described. In the end, there is a presumption in what Mrs Dik-Faber says, namely that there is a discussion about facts and that that cannot be done, because those facts must be established. It's about scientific conclusions. Scientists don't always have to agree. They can also sometimes come to different conclusions. Then it is important that we also ask the institutions that we have appointed to do so to assess the different conclusions that lie ahead and to give weight to them. Because some conclusions, based on certain research, can be attributed a heavier weight on the basis of how the research was carried out. The exact circumstances of this need to be considered in relation to other research, through a different design and under different circumstances. It's just the essence of knowing that it matters how you came to your conclusions. Scientists are like no other able to judge that from each other. So that is exactly what we have asked ECHA and EFSA: assess everything that lies ahead. ECHA has assessed everything, including the studies on the basis of which the IARC came to the classification "possibly carcinogenic." ECHA has also assessed all other studies that were known and, on the basis of a weighting of all those studies, concludes that it does not share that classification. There is always discussion about different conclusions and different interpretations based on scientific research. It is important that we have set up institutions to weigh that up. They come to a certain weighting, to a certain conclusion. Their conclusion is that there is no reason to accept that classification. Next, another question is what we have seen about the Monsanto Papers, namely that apparently the company Monsanto did not back down in the past to try to influence or even write scientific reports that were published in the US and have them published in the name of researchers. That's very serious. This creates mistrust of the applicant for the authorisation of this substance. But I think that's more of a political issue. So I assume that the European Commission will take that into account in the proposal it is going to make. I believe that the ball is now the first one in the European Commission. That's how we agreed. Then it is up to us to assess that proposal. Just as the Chamber controls the government, it is also the case in this process that the Commission is the one who has to make the proposal and that we, as Member States, are the ones who have to assess that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u113	Thank you to the Secretary of State for his comprehensive reply. He really gives a different answer than some media coverage. I really want to believe him. He actually says that EFSA and ECHA have the same information as the World Health Organisation and that they have used all the studies that were available, while I am also getting a signal from investigative journalists that EFSA and ECHA have not used all the studies, that studies on animals and studies on lymph node cancer in farmers have not been taken into account. Am I supposed to think of that as a monkey story or a conspiracy theory? Is the Secretary of State saying this isn't right? Does he say: ECHA and EFSA have the same information as the World Health Organisation and I am convinced that this is scientifically valid?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u114	EFSA should look at everything that is available. All review papers have been reviewed, but a number of epidemiological studies have not been reviewed in the first instance. They were added to the file later. So it could be about that. The second issue is that EFSA had more data at its disposal than IARC, including the studies to which Mrs Dik-Faber referred, namely animal studies and lymph node cancer studies. This is because EFSA has more data in this case than just the public data. In this case, not all the data used will not be made public, which means that EFSA will have more at its disposal to make an assessment. There was also controversy about this, because a different assessment was made, as an assessment had to be made on the basis of other data. So it's true; there's sometimes a difference in information that's available and sometimes there's also a difference in the assessment or weighting that's made. It's part of science, eventually. The essence of the question is whether you think that the procedure as we set it up gives sufficient confidence. I think that's true. At the same time, in view of the discussions that we have had on arthropods and other plant protection products, I can well imagine that, in a European context, we will discuss whether we could make adjustments to the procedure, which could lead to greater confidence in that procedure. I think it is sufficiently secure, but I think the question of making the studies public is legitimate. So I think it's good to talk about that further. In addition, there is the question of whether you have faith in the institutions we have set up for this. I believe that, as we have agreed in Europe, we have made every effort to ensure that they ultimately lead to a proper assessment of the potential harmfulness of substances and that, on this basis, a proper assessment can be made of whether or not to allow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u115	We need to get back to base. We're talking about cancer all the time. Seriously, but all that still has to be demonstrated. I have the following question to the Secretary of State. Vewin, the Association of Drinking Water Companies, says that for years it has been found in cross-standard concentrations and is at risk for drinking water. Those are our people, those are our people who drink our drinking water, as well as our animals. If it's established that pebble is a poison that's bad for our pollinators, so bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees, bees. We must stop doing what the European Union, EFSA, ECHA and others want to do. We shouldn't be doing that when we know all this, right? Isn't this enough to quit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u116	I think you need to distinguish two things. Europeanly, we have set up a procedure whereby we can assess whether a substance can be used responsibly within Europe and whether it is justified to admit such a substance to the European market. Then you make a national assessment. For us, this is what the College for the Authorisation of Plant Protection Products and Biocidal Products, the Ctgb, is doing. This makes a national assessment of how this product can be used in the Netherlands. This can also be said to mean that this product should not be used in the Netherlands at all because of the specific circumstances here. We have experienced this, for example, with imidacloprit, where the Ctgb has taken far-reaching measures to reduce its use. That national assessment has to do with the specific Dutch circumstances and can therefore be about how much resources are being spent in our surface water and groundwater and whether they are potentially threatening our drinking water extraction, because it becomes too complicated for drinking water companies to extract all these substances. We can judge all that nationally. That is what we agreed on at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u117	Then I don't understand the argument. Then we just have to stop. If it is a poison that ends up in our drinking water, if it is a poison for bees and other pollinators at the beginning of our food cycle... The whole Chamber has supported my motions, the bee's emotion. Then the Chamber cannot be left with the motion I am about to table. I'm asking the Secretary of State to prevent those motions. Let him take his responsibility and ensure that he does not sit in front of a committee of inquiry later on. The warnings are already there, and they are all experts in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u118	There is one thing I would like to say to Mr Graus. He uses the word "toxin" every time. I did so once, and some of his colleagues did not agree. In fact, however, he is right. Plant protection products are there to protect crops from threats from nature, such as insects or weeds. How do they protect? Syringes are all about killing insects or weeds, for example. It's actually poison. That does not mean that we can never use any form of poison in agriculture at all. In fact, we would all have no food if plant protection products were not used occasionally. I see Mr Grashoff making a hand gesture, but plant protection products are also used in organic farming. They sometimes only have a different origin from the chemicals used in normal agriculture. So the question isn't whether they're toxic or not. We'll find out soon enough. The question is whether you can use them responsibly, in such a way that you can minimize the damage to the environment or our health or prevent damage to our health. That is the central question that is always on the table and not the question of whether it is toxic or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u119	Now Mr Grashoff. No, no, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u120	Mr President, I would like an answer on the non-chemical variant. I have put forward alternatives. There's no response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u121	I'll give you a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u122	No, Mr President, that is something I have been asking here for years. I've put in alternatives, non-chemical variants, for chemical agents. I would have liked to have a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr Graus, you have had two interruptions and you have a second term. Now Mr Grashoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u124	Mr President, Mr Graus is right, because I had not responded correctly. He had asked a separate question about that. We are talking about the so-called 'green plant protection products'. These are plant protection products that are not chemically produced, but products that we make based on natural ingredients. As Mr Graus knows and I hope the rest of the Chamber too, it is precisely a very important part of the policy that this cabinet has pursued with regard to plant protection products, the greening of the budget package, so ensuring that much more green resources are placed on the market and used and less and less chemicals. The Dutch horticulture sector has also indicated that it wants to phase out the use of chemicals as much as possible within ten to fifteen years. That is a tremendous ambition, with which the Netherlands would definitely be the leading player in the world if it succeeds. I am convinced that it can be achieved, especially if all the parties in this sector focus their energies on this. So, in cooperation between the business community here and the public authorities, we must be able to further green the package of resources. I therefore entirely agree with Mr Graus. We have to go that way. By the way, there are also very dangerous poisons in nature. Even resources that have naturally been created are not always safe to use. You often have strict usage rules for this too, because you still have to be careful how you apply them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u125	I can imagine the Secretary of State's reasoning in procedural and administrative terms, that it should be an orderly process, that we should come up with a proposal and so on. At the same time, I would ask the Secretary of State, in general terms, to express an opinion in the light of a continuing scientific debate on health risks, in the light of a continuing discussion on the environmental impact of plant protection products and in the light of a sustained development towards green plant protection products and alternative farming methods. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that a six-month admission period at least does not correspond to the dynamics of this discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u126	In doing so, Mr Grashoff is trying to get me to judge a proposal that is not yet available. I told you later that I'm not going to give it, because I just don't think it's careful to do that. If the Commission were to come up with such a proposal, we would have to wait and see, first of all, on the basis of what arguments it is doing, how it will give the debate on the Monsanto Papers a place in it and under what conditions such a proposal would be made. That's all relevant to judge it. There is not one thing you can highlight and say: only a ten-year term is unacceptable. You have to consider the whole package. As I said later, we have enough time for a discussion between the Chamber and the Cabinet or, according to the Chamber, the assessment that the Cabinet will give at that time is also the correct assessment. I have just said that I will not take a position in the discussions on this until I have been able to give an assessment that I have been able to share with the Chamber and the Chamber has been given the opportunity to speak on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u127	I find the latter special, because the Chamber has asked for this debate to be able to discuss it. So now is the time when we talk to each other, under the current circumstances and with the current knowledge of things, to see to what extent we can draw a conclusion to this. In this context, I do not think that the Secretary of State should be talking about questions of principle such as: is a ten-year admission period in the light of this discussion a sensible exercise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u128	Of course, I am not talking about the timing with which the Chamber puts debates on its agenda. In fact, I have to say that we are having this debate because there was a rumor in the media that the European Commission might be able to make a proposal. There are sometimes other reasons for debate; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u129	In any case, I am pleased that the Secretary of State agrees with me that this debate is premature and that the final judgment should be suspended. I do have a question. Colleagues note that scientists sometimes contradict each other. Which research institutions does the Secretary of State attach value to? Is that the Ctgb? Is that EFSA? Is that ECHA? Or are there any other institutions where he wants to put his ear before he comes up with a final verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u130	I value all three of the institutions mentioned by Mr von Martels. They all have a place in the assessment of these types of substances. In the Netherlands RIVM also sometimes participates in this type of process. In this case it was not, but sometimes RIVM also plays a role. We have many renowned institutions that we can expect to make a good assessment of, give a good scientific assessment of everything on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u131	In short, I have not forgotten any institutions; the Secretary of State mentions a few more. Perhaps Vewin's judgment is also important for the Secretary of State to pass his final judgment. There may be other institutions. That's what I'm looking for. If we are going to have a discussion about who the Secretary of State listened to in order to reach a verdict, we should not have the discussion afterwards that there have been many more who have made a different noise. We should be guided by the institutions we have created. They must be leading as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u132	In this process I finally get official advice from the Ctgb. That is for me the party that makes the assessment. In addition, there are other interested parties who can express their views on this issue. It is part of an administrative balance that they are all taken into account, but ultimately it is the Ctgb that assesses what the Commission is putting on the table and advises on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u133	The Secretary of State states that he assumes that the European institutions account for the Monsanto Papers, or at least the information that has emerged. However, my question, which I asked earlier, was whether his ministry itself looked at the Monsanto Papers and the traces of influence on the European admission process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u134	Of course. They were all public, so we looked them all up. You can count on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u135	Does this not mean that the conclusions of the institutions, which the European Commission has also indicated that there may be some way to go, may not be absolute?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u136	I'm just trying to understand your question. What do you mean, "not absolute"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u137	The proposal that may be put forward and on which you do not yet want to make a ruling on the ten-year extension will then be based on the rulings of institutions such as EFSA. My question is whether the findings surrounding the Monsanto Papers make any difference to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u138	EFSA has now made a statement on the way it looks at the Monsanto Papers. It indicated that they could not change EFSA's opinion in any way. That is the opinion of EFSA. That is very important and very important. However, the European Commission is a political body, and I have already said that what has emerged in the US naturally gives rise to the confidence that you can have in the applicant parties in this matter. In this whole process, it is essential that it does not just lead to an assessment of the authorisation. We must also be able to be confident that it is all right if such a substance has been assessed, if it is to be used safely and if it is allowed. Everything that has happened here has, of course, affected that confidence, not in the process we are following, but in what Monsanto has provided in the US. I think it is right that the European Commission should also be aware of this. I assume that the European Commission will do the same and that the European Commission will respond to what is on the table. I just want to see what the European Commission is doing with this before I give a further assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u139	I just feel like you've already answered a lot of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u140	I think so, too. I had a few specific questions. They were, for example, about the use of fertilizers outside agriculture. Several Members have asked questions about this. I thought it was known to those members that Secretary of State Dijksma was concerned with its territory, as Secretary of State of I and M................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what she told the Chamber. This means that she tries to reduce the use by individuals by a different route, through green deals, as much as possible. I have already said something about the green biologicals. Mr Futselaar still asked about the municipality of Amersfoort, which is used for the fight against a thousand knots. That too is actually the responsibility of the Secretary of State of I and M. There is an exception to the ban on non-private farmers for the use of plant protection products on hardening. That exception concerns the fight against a thousand knots. So it's okay, but it has to be selective and place-by-place. There is therefore no basis for me or for the Secretary of State of I and M to address the municipality of Amersfoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u141	I see a number of people want to interrupt. Can we wait for the answers or do you want to go into this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u142	Briefly about private use. That is a responsibility of the Secretary of State for I and M, but it is a responsibility of the people of the country that we are talking about today. It is a very risky means, that may be clear. We don't want to stop the sale. It's been discussed for a long time. When I click the Internet, the pop-up will splash off the screen. I do not see any improvement on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u143	Would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u144	We've been talking about it for a long time. My question is, where's the green deal? When are we going to see results in the sense that sales are actually falling and that alternatives are being used?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u145	Luckily, I never have that, when I click the Internet open,..................................................................................................................................................... I think Mrs Dik should discuss this question with Secretary of State Dijksma anyway. It is good, given the way in which it tries to reduce the use by individuals as much as possible. Mrs Dik is asking me what progress has been made on the portfolio of my colleagues. She really needs to ask her that question. Mrs Dik asked how I deal with the greening of plant protection. I'd like to answer that question. She asked: is this already being discussed with the sector? This has been discussed in detail with the sector. We also started some pilots. We have shown exactly where the problems lie and why greening does not go faster. Work is now under way in good consultation on possible solutions. So we are trying to take joint steps to ensure that these green resources are put on the market more quickly. She also asked me to respond immediately to last year's NVWA survey on compliance by municipalities and greeners. That is also the portfolio of Secretary of State Dijksma. It will send a report to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u146	That was three in one. I will also turn to Secretary of State Dijksma van I and M. I have another question about the discussions with the sector. It is good that they are being conducted and that they are going constructively. When will the Chamber be informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u147	I always report when I can say more about that. We are now working on finding a number of solutions. It seems to me that it is a good time to inform the Chamber about this as soon as we have more clarity about it. Then she is well aware of the identified problems and the possible solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u148	About the municipality of Amersfoort, which was an example for me, that question wasn't specifically directed at that municipality.The Secretary of State actually says: what it does is allowed, so I don't want to say anything else about it. But it is also about whether it is desirable. When I hear a bit of the noises in this Chamber, with all the differences, there is a rather broad feeling that use outside agriculture should be reduced as much as possible. Does this not make sense if the Secretary of State, perhaps with his colleague from I and M, but I would ask him to speak on behalf of the cabinet to speak to municipalities in order to limit this use as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u149	That is difficult for me to say, because it really is in my colleague's area. Local politics also has a role to play in this. I remember that weed control also played when I was a city councilman in Eindhoven. We wanted to do that without poison, too. This did not always lead to the understanding of the inhabitants, because the methods we used for this did not lead to the same clean streets as they were used to. That's part of it. Sometimes, as local politics, you have to want to play a role in this. So before I interfere with both the area of my colleague and the area of local politics, I think it would be better if I now refer Mr Futselaar to discussions which he is undoubtedly going to have with the Secretary of State for I and M. I was at the end of my reply, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office of the Secretary of State. I shall proceed to the second term of office. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u151	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. It will not surprise him that the Party for Animals wants some clarity today about the direction the cabinet is going to take. The Secretary of State has rightly said that Monsanto's practices are shameful. It is very important that we show something that shows that it can't just happen that you're trying to influence or direct research, or whatever, without any consequences being attached to it. I have the next motion on this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European authorisation of satsumas is due to expire at the end of this year;]] [[noting the risk to our drinking water and biodiversity, including pollinating insects;]] [[having also noted that the World Health Organisation warns of the likelihood of a carcinogen;]] [[calls on the Government to present a concrete plan of action for a significant reduction in the use of satsumas;]] [[also requests the Government, in any case not to approve an extension for more than one year of the authorisation of satsumas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-379]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u152	Mr. Chairman. Despite the fact that the Secretary of State is very curious about the Commission's proposal, we still have two motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission appears to propose a ten-year extension of the authorisation of arthropods, but also sends a letter to the agencies concerned, expressing doubts as to the basis of their opinion;]] [[noting that there is still a difference of opinion as to the carcinogenicness of arthropods;]] [[Whereas further investigation is necessary in order to obtain a complete picture of the risks;]] [[calls on the Government to use an extension of three years to allow a new extension decision to be linked to the agricultural vision in the new common agricultural policy by 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-380]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u153	My second motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that chemical plant protection products should be used as little as possible within agriculture;]] [[Whereas farmers indicate that there are not always sufficient alternatives;]] [[Whereas, at the end of this year, a decision is taken on the renewal of the authorisation of satsumas;]] [[calls on the Government to attach to the extension decision a declaration of intent from as many Member States as possible who are committed to limiting use within agriculture as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-381]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u154	I have a question about the last motion from D66. D66 is a party with some sense of reality. When there are no alternatives, what do you give the agricultural entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u155	It seems to me, if there really are no alternatives, that it should be used carefully and as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u156	I get that. Farmers are also of the opinion that they would like to use as little money as possible. Why? Because it hits the wallet. But what does D66 say when it is needed in the interests of food production or of protecting our food from outside influences, without an alternative? I hope that D66 also opts for good quality and safe food.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u157	There are many ways of achieving that. A lot of farmers in the Netherlands are working on this, where I am thinking of precision farming. It seems to me that we support the farmers in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u158	Mr. Chairman. With all due respect to the Secretary of State when he says he doesn't want to determine a position in view of the state of play in the trial, I believe that we should do so as a Chamber and that we should send a message to the Secretary of State. I have three motions to that effect. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Greens have brought a case before the European Court of Justice for full disclosure of investigations into the health and environmental consequences of arthropods;]] [[requests the Government to examine whether it is possible to join the plaintiffs in this case in order to enforce full disclosure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the European Commission intends to extend the authorisation of satsumas for a period of 10 years, despite the threat to biodiversity and the risk to the objectives of the Water Framework Directive;]] [[also considering that there is still a great deal of scientific controversy about the carcinogenic properties of arthropods and that investigations are not public due to commercial interests;]] [[Considers that the authorisation of arthropods for a period of 10 years does not encourage the sector to develop alternatives to this substance;]] [[calls on the Government not to agree to a proposal by the European Commission for re-admission for a period of 10 years and to call on the Commission to come forward with proposals for gradual phasing-out,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-382]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-383]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u159	Finally, my last and shortest motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council,]] [[calls on the Government, regardless of the possible authorisation by the European Commission, to introduce additional national measures to further prohibit the use of arthropods outside agriculture and to limit their use within agriculture as far as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Grashoff, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-384]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u160	Mr. Chairman. We're not filing any motions right now. As I said earlier, we want to wait for the European Commission's opinion before we come up with a final assessment. We are satisfied with the answers given by the Secretary of State. For the moment, I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u161	Mr. Chairman. There are two important tracks. Firstly, the Netherlands must make a clear statement in the light of the forthcoming decision of the European Commission. That is why we have co-signed Mrs Ouwehand's motion. In addition, here in the Netherlands we can see what we can do already. I would therefore like to table two motions. Both have been co-signed by Mrs Ouwehand. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the environmental and health problems which it may cause;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to reduce the use of satsumas;]] [[noting that some municipalities are still heavily committed to the use of satsumas;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with VNG, IPO and Union of Water Councils, to reach agreements to limit or completely avoid the use of arthropods by public authorities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the sale of plant protection products containing fertilizers for private use has so far been authorised;]] [[noting that, among other things, water company Vitens calls it worrying that half of the individuals use pesticides in gardening;]] [[noting that interbranch organisation Vewin advocates a private ban;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the sale of plant protection products containing the active substance.]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-385]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Futselaar and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-386]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u162	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering many questions and wishes from the Chamber. I am very pleased that the procedure has been clarified once again. It is incredibly important that we stick to this method of authorising resources. We are talking today about satsumas, but this also applies, of course, to all kinds of other means. I also strongly support the words of the Secretary of State that plant protection products will be necessary at all times in order to produce good quality and safe food. This is important not only for the common agricultural policy, but also for organic farming. Of course, we must be careful about this, but I think that entrepreneurs can also make their own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u163	Mr. Chairman. A verdict that the Secretary of State just made, I have incorporated into my motion. I'll start with that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Notes that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs wants the Netherlands to become a world leader in the greening of chemical pesticides;]] [[Noting that there was a broadly adopted Graus motion (27858, nr. 131), which calls on the Government to examine which chemicals can be replaced by non-chemical variants;]] [[Furthermore, noting that benevolent "weedfighters and crop protectors" are often hampered by the use of non-chemical agents and/or that alternatives are not allowed;]] [[calls on the Government to remove bottlenecks in the admissibility and applicability of non-chemical variants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-387]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u164	I think it is important to say that this earlier motion, apart from the VVD, has been supported by Parliament. It would therefore be very strange if the House did not support this motion, since I am asking for bottlenecks to be removed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u165	I can't read the motion that quickly, but she'll be here any minute. I am curious as to how Mr Graus sees it that the cabinet is going to investigate alternative means. Are we going to set up a separate ministry or are we going to make money available for this? In short, how are we going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u166	I'm not asking you to. I didn't just read that. We have the best farmers; they are at the forefront, even in the greening. Mrs Lodders also received the letter from LTO Nederland about this greening. The Secretary of State also wants that greening. And also the Chamber wants that greening. That's why my motions have been passed. I am concerned that some farmers, because they are at the forefront of the world, have themselves come up with alternatives, but they are hampered by NVWA. I went to see a farmer, who told me that NVWA officials came by when he was testing with a small plot and that he then got a fine on his pants. That man should get a statue here in the State Passage! But no, he gets a fine; he gets caught and screwed. It can't be. That's why I'm saying help those people, for God's sake. We do not have the expertise our farmers do have. There are other alternatives. I have already said that, at my request, municipalities have started working with steam on paved parts to fight weeds. It doesn't bother the bees, it doesn't bother people, and it works perfectly. What's the problem, Mrs. Lodders?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u167	I believe that Mr Graus really said in his motion that he asked the cabinet for an investigation into green resources. A second comment on Mr Graus' reply is that I do not hope that he will send all our hard-working farmers into the fields with a steam machine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u168	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u169	That is what I heard you say, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u170	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u171	Of course, there are alternatives. I have mentioned the example of natural vinegar, but these need to be examined for the effects on nature and the environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u172	Mrs Lodders suffers from a 50PLUS, as I call it, because I did not say that. I said municipalities work with steam on paved parts. If weeds come out of a sidewalk, they already work with steam at my request. That has become a great success, Mrs Lodders. I would also like to say that farmers are also working on non-chemical variants. They are hampered by the NVWA. For the people at home: that is the Dutch National Food and Service Authority. It can't be. Furthermore, I am not asking for an investigation at all. The Secretary of State himself said, after an interruption from me, that he thinks we should be world leaders. That is what he said at the end of the debate. That's because the Secretary of State knows he's got the farmers behind him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u174	No, sorry, Mrs. Lodders said something else. That investigation is in another adopted motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u175	It is difficult to see where there is a point in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u176	It's an adopted motion. The VVD did not support that motion, but Mrs Lodders really suffered from a 50PLUS'. I don't blame her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u177	Mrs. Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u178	Now I'm being blamed. Fortunately, I am not yet 50-plus, but I did hear 'that there is a widely adopted Graus motion asking the government to examine which chemicals can be replaced by non-chemical variants'. I have heard Mr Graus ask for that motion to be carried out. There are a number of other things in that motion. I'm very curious to know how the cabinet is going to conduct that investigation. That is also why the VVD did not support that earlier motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u179	Finally, briefly, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u180	Mr President, I will have to speak more slowly so that Mrs Lodder can follow it. A motion of mine has been adopted in which I have asked the government to examine which chemicals, where possible, can be replaced by non-chemical variants. That motion is there; that is an adopted motion. He's been hired Chamberwide, except for the VVD. So I have had the support of all parties. Now that that motion has been passed, I am not asking you to investigate anything. No, my request today is to help those people to remove bottlenecks in admissibility and applicability. That is what I am asking: 'calls on the government to remove bottlenecks in the admissibility and applicability of non-chemical variants'. I shall make that request on the basis of the Graus motion that has been adopted. I would like to explain it to Mrs Lodders, while enjoying a full-bodied cake, one more time. Then maybe she can follow it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u181	Are you going to do that? Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u182	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State said that there is a scientific difference of opinion between the World Health Organisation and European institutions because it is inherent in science, but he also said that EFSA and ECHA had no less information or used fewer reports but even more information than the World Health Organisation. We'll never know for sure, because we don't have any insight into all the reports. In fact, I find this very unsatisfactory and I would very much like to hear from the Secretary of State what he is going to do to gain more confidence in European procedures. I would like to conclude on the basis of facts, but I still have an unheimical feeling. What is the Secretary of State going to do to increase confidence in the admission procedures? I also ask how the consequences for drinking water are taken into account in the authorisation, both at European and Dutch level. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the decision on the EU licence for the plant protection product is to be taken within the European Union at the end of November, possibly setting a period of 10 years;]] [[Whereas in science there are conflicting conclusions on the effects of arthropods on public health;]] [[invites the Government, in the event of a possible extension of the authorisation at EU level, to advocate the possibility of an interim adjustment of the decision on the basis of modified scientific knowledge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27858-388]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u183	Mr. Chairman. I have already said in my first term that this debate is premature in my view when it comes to assessing a proposal that is not yet available. That will be reflected in the assessment of a number of motions, namely the motions in part Nos. 379, 380, 381, 383 and 388. These are all ahead of the European Commission's proposals. The motion in part No. 379 contains two requests. The first request is policy support, but the second is premature because it anticipates the Commission's proposal. That's why I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 380 is the request for an extension of three years. That's the same thing: it's premature. I therefore advise against this motion. Strictly speaking, the motion in part No. 381 the same: it anticipates the European Commission's proposal. It is not impossible for the Commission itself to come forward with such a proposal, which we could then assess. In substance, however, the request is policy support. However, as it anticipates the Commission's proposal, I also advise against this motion. I agree with all the motions which anticipate the Commission's proposal. In the motion in part No. 382 is requested by the government to join in a lawsuit on disclosure of data. I reject this motion, not because I do not agree with the content, but because I do not think it is the right way to join in a trial of Mr Grashoff's party mates. I myself have a political path to take: the talks in the SCOPAFF and in the European Agriculture and Fisheries Council. I therefore also advise against this motion. The same applies, as I had already announced, to the motion in part No. 383, which anticipates the European Commission's proposal. So I'm gonna dissuade her. The motion in part No. 384 contains the request for additional national measures to further prohibit the use of fertilizers outside agriculture and to limit their use within agriculture as far as possible. That is difficult, because I do not fully understand what the author is trying to do. As far as possible, the use of fertilizers outside agriculture is already limited through national measures. I have just said that it was not possible to ban non-professional users, for individuals, but that there is an exception in the current ban. We were also talking about this in connection with Mr Futselaar's questions. So I do not immediately see the possibility of banning it further than we are doing now. This is not my area either, but that of the Secretary of State of I and M. The authors are therefore not entirely at the right place with me. Limiting use within agriculture as much as possible is support for policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u184	In the discussion we have had about restricting use outside agriculture, a series of exceptions, including for sports fields and cemeteries, have finally been included for varying political and sometimes legal reasons. I think that this will require a revaluation, because some of these exceptions were simply not necessary. Some might have been needed at that time, but in the meantime we've taken him five years further and they're really not needed anymore because there are good alternatives. There is therefore every reason and every possibility of further tightening up outside agriculture, including with regard to private individuals, with various variants being deliberately left open in this case because some variants are indeed more feasible than other variants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u185	The appropriate way for such a request from the Chamber is to speak first with the person responsible, the Secretary of State of I and M. It is not quite the usual route, so to speak, to tighten up the request to the government in response to this debate. It seems appropriate to me to speak first with the Secretary of State for I and M. It may be a bit precise, but for this procedural reason, I'm not suggesting this motion. At the moment, the proposers really shouldn't be with me for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u186	I waited for the Secretary of State's opinion on this motion before I asked a question about my motion. The Secretary of State said that the request for a concrete plan of approach for a significant reduction in the use of arthropods is policy support. It is important that the Secretary of State knows that, should this motion be adopted, it is an additional approach, in addition to what the Cabinet is already doing. So I know that the Secretary of State is dissuading the motion, but should the Chamber adopt it, I do not mean the policy as it is, but extra effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u187	That's clear. For the motion-Futselaar/Ouwehand in part No. 385 is the same as Mr Grashoff's motion. This motion also deals with the use of fertilizers outside agriculture, and that is the area for which I am not responsible, but the Secretary of State for I and M. I therefore advise the House not to adopt this motion in response to this debate. In the motion-Futselaar/Ouwehand in part No. 386 the Government is requested to terminate the sale of plant protection products containing the active substance. I cannot help but dissuade this motion because it is impossible to implement it. The Secretary of State for I and M informed the Chamber that it was unable to find any legal basis for a ban on private use. Mr Graus asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 387 for the elimination of bottlenecks in the admissibility and applicability of non-chemical agents. That's exactly what we're doing. I very much like the substance of the motion, but it does not lead to any other policy if the House adopts this motion. So it is actually superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u188	I think this is silly, I have to be honest. I've already addressed this to the Secretary of State in an AO once. At that time, I even sent his people bilateral examples of those who are against it. They're being obstructed by the NVWA. I have really mentioned a concrete example, with company name and everything, something I cannot just do in public. I am asked to do so by those entrepreneurs. So I think this is really lame. It's not gonna happen. There are bottlenecks and people are hampered in the use of non-chemical plant protection products. That's just a fact. Mrs Lodders and Mr von Martels must also know this, because they are also in contact with those entrepreneurs. It's just a known phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u189	As I said earlier, I want the budget package to be greened as soon as possible. This means that there must be green, non-chemical substances on the market that are not yet available. There are thresholds for this; Mr Graus is right. We have therefore identified these thresholds, together with the business community. I have just said to Mrs Dik-Faber that we are also looking together at possible solutions to this. I will inform the Chamber about this; I expect it to be sometime after the summer. Perhaps it is most logical that Mr Graus should hold this motion for a moment and first assess what is then and whether he is satisfied with what has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u190	Look, I think that's a good proposal. I will. On this point, I will take my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u191	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (27858, No. (Parliament adopted the resolution) That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u192	But honestly, there are still problems and I'm asking the Secretary of State to take them away. That's just the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u193	Well, that's clear. Then the Chamber gets the promised information about that. The motion-Dik-Faber/Van Eijs in part No. 388 also anticipates the European Commission's proposal. For that reason, I advise against this motion. We have to wait and see whether the Commission itself is going to propose something like this. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked two questions. What am I going to do to ensure that confidence in the authorisation procedures is strengthened? I have already said in my first term that I think there is reason to discuss with the European Commission and with the other Member States what we can do, for example, to make adjustments in the procedure that lead to greater confidence. One of the most obvious discussions is whether all studies and raw data should remain secret or be made public. That's one of the discussion points. There are more things you could imagine. I have already promised to start this discussion in the first period and to continue to discuss it with the Commission and the Member States. In the end, this procedure must lead not only to a sensible decision but also to social confidence in the decision that is being taken. Mrs Dik-Faber has a good point. In view of all the discussions we have had, both in society and in the Chamber, and the discussions I have had in the short time I have been in this position, I think there is a great deal of reason to discuss this with each other. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked whether the effects on drinking water would be included. That is the case, especially when substances are admitted to the European market. Resources should be specifically admitted to the Member State, including the Netherlands. That's what the Ctgb's judging. This takes into account the specific Dutch circumstances, including possible risks to drinking water production. At that time it is taken again. Mr President, I have also answered the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-08-tweedekamer-5.u194	The motions tabled will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming to the House of Representatives.
