ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u1	I give the floor to Mr Nijboer of the PvdA to answer his questions to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment who is replacing the Minister for Finance. The questions are about money laundering and other criminal risks from bitcoins.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. $17,000, that border has just passed as far as bitcoin is concerned. After tulip mania follows the bitcoinmadness. This international online currency also makes it possible, especially now that it is worth so much, to pay as a criminal. Money laundering and drug trafficking are involved. Is this going to be the new international drug currency? Following a broadcast of EenToday, I have the following three questions. Does the Minister recognise that this online means of payment, for which there are other cryptocurrencies, is used by criminals and that this offers great opportunities? The program even mentioned that 40% of online criminal payments take place with the bitcoin. Does the Minister recognize that problem? Is he gonna take that, too? Is the FIOD after it? Is the D.A. after it? Is there sufficient knowledge in the Dutch investigation services? My second question is: why is there no supervision by the AFM and by De Nederlandsche Bank? In America the bitcoin is already traded. You can buy futures in bitcoins. The CEO of a major American business bank said that bitcoins are actually a vehicle for fraudsters. At the same time, you can trade in it at the same bank. Why is this not yet under surveillance in the Netherlands? I've asked Parliament questions about that before. Isn't it about time, now that it's getting this big? My third and final question is: are the platforms on which you can trade in bitcoins safe? Or are there also criminal people active there, so people who invest in bitcoins I don't recommend it to anyone, but it's free people in a free country who can lose their money at once? Why isn't there supervision? How's that? How's that taken care of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Today I am replacing the Minister of Finance, who is in the First Chamber for the General Financial Reviews. I would like to thank Mr Nijboer for his questions. It's an interesting subject. In my previous life as a financial spokesman, I have often been working on this. Mr Nijboer has asked a few questions. In general: virtual currencies, including bitcoins and underlying technology, blockchain technology, are forms of innovation, but they do involve new risks. We need to open our eyes to that. National and European supervisors, such as De Nederlandsche Bank, the AFM and EBA, as well as the Public Prosecutor's Office have issued a warning about the risks of bitcoins. That point, which Mr Nijboer rightly raises, is therefore also seen by the supervisors. The use of virtual currency for money laundering of criminally obtained money is subject to the criminalisation of money laundering. This is therefore already a criminal offence and is therefore already covered by the current laws and regulations. Furthermore, there is currently a discussion in Europe about the Custodial Wallet providers; I am sorry to read it in English, Mr President. This concerns money laundering risks in virtual currency. A solution to this problem is being worked out in Europe. They want to put it under surveillance, under the Anti-Money Laundering Directive. This means looking in the future for people who act in this or for offices that do so for clients, the final stakeholders behind it, the ultimate beneficial owners, but also for unusual transactions on this platform. In other words, Mr Nijboer has asked a number of legitimate questions. It has the interest of the supervisors and it is now looking at legislation and regulations at European level to address this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u5	Thank you for the answers and the recognition that this really is a problem, but with warnings of course we are not there. If you read the paper a little bit and watch TV, you'll understand you're at great risk if you buy that business. You'll do it yourself. But the question is: shouldn't there be just be behavioral surveillance? With a lot of financial products, with all investments in the Netherlands, the AFM or De Nederlandsche Bank supervises suppliers. Why isn't that settled? My second question is this. It is good that there is attention and discussion at European level, but it is happening now. Criminals often go out for legislation. We have whole debates here on combating terrorism, but criminals are of course not crazy. They use these methods and also new coins, now that the bitcoin is a little more targeted, to finance their criminal and sometimes even terrorist actions. So we're on time? What does the Minister intend to do to put this into effect, so that he not only endorses it, but also does something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. I saw that I had an open question from Mr Nijboer's first term on platforms. Platforms are already regulated at the moment. It has already been monitored, so that point is taken into account. I just mentioned the Anti-Money Laundering Directive and the European negotiations that are now under way. Those negotiations are moving towards a conclusion. The positive thing is that this is widely shared in Europe. It deserves the attention of supervisors and should be brought under the Anti-Money Laundering Directive, precisely because the bitcoin is still relatively small at the moment, given the overall volume of financial flows. However, it is growing faster and more and more, even in the media attention around it. So yes, we are on top of it in the legislation. I cannot tell you exactly when the Anti-Money Laundering Directive will come into effect, but the positive thing is that there is broad support in Europe to implement it as soon as possible. It is then enshrined in the Dutch Law on the Prevention of Laundering and Financing of Terrorism (Wwft).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u7	That's good, that's really a new development. In the past, in response to Parliamentary questions, it has always been said that we do not have to supervise it, that is not necessary. That's what's gonna happen now. That is a good thing. I have two more questions. My first question is about the platforms. The Minister says that there is supervision and that this must be done properly. My question is however: how can someone who has invested money in it again, I do not recommend anyone to do so, and be sure that that platform is also a good one and that it is also a good one to tell? The Minister has just said: it is settled, these platforms are covered. Well, I'm not so sure about that. My final question is a financial question. After all, the Minister of Social Affairs replaces the Minister of Finance. Are the investments you make also taxable in box 3 and how does the Tax Administration supervise that? That's supposed to be a decent tax on it. Otherwise it is tax evasion, and the cabinet is an opponent of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u8	That is an interesting question from Mr Nijboer. I do not know the answer to that now and will pass the question on to Minister Hoekstra's officials, so that Mr Nijboer gets an answer on this point. Moreover, I think it is the officials of Secretary of State Snel. Mr Nijboer amazes me a little bit. On the basis of his first question: in a generic sense, there is, of course, supervision of those trading venues, precisely in view of the question of whether there are unhonorable things happening there. Does this mean you can always guarantee it's safe? No, you can't. Unfortunately, that is the case. What we have, of course, seen in recent years, especially at European level, is an increasing number of laws and regulations that also monitor and make demands on these trading venues. These are positive developments, particularly with regard to the protection of individuals, but also with regard to the protection of financial stability. But are they 100% waterproof guarantees? No, we can never give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Nijboer. Then I'm going to see Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u10	Not new is that the bitcoin is used for criminal activities. It is not new that the bitcoin is not covered by the legislation governing financial supervision. It is not new that Europe is looking at measures under the Anti-money laundering directive. Actually, we all know. About every party in this Chamber has asked questions about this. I did that myself last summer. So I don't really hear anything new here. We see that the bitcoin meets a certain need, for example for people who do not want to participate in debt money, who want a debt-free currency. The Minister knows all about this from his previous position. The government sees there's a need. There is now a currency with a lot of risks of money laundering, criminal activity and losing money. How is the government going to do something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u11	I am well aware of the background to this question in a different capacity, namely when I was a Member of your Chamber. This is about the discussion about Our Money. I honestly don't know what the state of affairs is right now. I know, however, that during the previous period a number of motions were tabled by the previous Minister, Minister Dijsselbloem, on banking licences and on that discussion. I don't know what's going on right now. You will really have to record that with Mr Hoekstra. Frankly, I did not prepare for that at this little Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u12	My question had such a charming run-up, because it was about the Koolmees motion. In that motion it was said that there is a need in society...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr President, it is even the Koolmees/Merkies motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u14	Let's just say the SP never works together, Mr. President! But I was working on a very nice question for this minister. It was the Koolmees/Merkies motion that asked for the possibility of a debt-free storage of your coin. That's a technical discussion. Everyone who knows and is watching this discussion thinks: oh yes, that's about it. But there isn't that possibility right now. That bank license will not be issued. That's what became known this summer. The alternative these people are looking for now is the bitcoin. It's just so dangerous, because it's used by criminals. Wouldn't it be a good idea for the government to reduce the need for bitcoin by experimenting with such a virtual currency itself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u15	First of all, I do know this discussion very well because I myself, with Mr Merkies, have tabled the Koolmees/Merkies motion on the deposit bank, which is what this is about. Again, I do not know exactly what the latest state of affairs is with the answer, so I simply cannot answer that at the moment. Unfortunately, I would like to do it because it is an important point. I do not know whether Mrs Leijten's question is an alternative. With Our Money, the citizens' initiative of a year or two ago, was of course the discussion about how to ensure that you can have a safe position for storing savings. It could be that the bitcoin is part of it. Mr Nijboer's questions focused on the risk of money laundering and criminal activities. I really think that's a different angle. But I think it is an interesting question from Mrs Leijten and I will pass it on to the Minister of Finance. I think it's been answered over time, but I can't reproduce it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u16	Money laundering, hiding money from the tax authorities, speculating without a financial package leaflet, we've actually heard all the things bad people can do with the bitcoin for a while. We haven't even talked about the fact that one bitcoin transaction costs as much energy as a normal family in three weeks. But apart from those childhood diseases, it is of course also something that ultimately has potential, for example for crowdfunding for new, small businesses. So if the Minister is going to answer the state of play with the Koolmees motion, can the Minister of Finance provide a vision on the idea of cryptocurrencies, initial coin sacrifice? And can he indicate how he wants to deal with all these childhood diseases? Because by now, almost all regulators have warned. The only person I haven't heard is the IRS. So is the IRS also going to issue a warning about the possibility that cryptocurrencies are being used to evade tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u17	I think Mr Paternotte is hinting at questions he has asked himself about ICOs. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u18	You mean questions-Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u19	Oh, yeah. I know from a reliable source that the answers to these questions are coming to your Chamber very quickly, perhaps already this week. The answer was therefore to Mr Paternotte's questions. At the end of this week, or at the beginning of next week, the cabinet will answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u20	Then there's the answer to my question about the IRS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u21	Is that the second supplementary question? No? Then it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u22	While the bitcoins are flying around us, you can also see that the numbers of derived products are increasing. That's how bitcoin futures stand up. Our southern neighbors have, among other things, declared a ban on that part. Is the Minister prepared to look also for the Netherlands at the possibilities and what should be done for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u23	Part of Mr Ronnes' question also relates to Mr Nijboer's question about trading venues. This is, of course, about derivatives, derived products that are traded through trading venues. I have just replied that they are under supervision. I am also aware of the Belgian government's proposal to ban it. If you'll allow me, I'll pass it on to the Minister of Finance. I cannot answer that at the moment because I simply do not know the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u24	I still have a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u25	You can only ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u26	That's good. Then I'll wrap it up in one question. Of course it is important that everyone should be able to invest in what he wants to invest in himself, but if things go wrong in a few weeks' time with the bitcoin and that thing collapses, I think: we have rules for paying in the Netherlands, we have rules for investing, we have rules for gambling. No one can explain to me so far which of these rules applies in this case. Can the Minister ask his minister of finance if he wants to take that into account in a letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u27	I will. I could also speculate, but that seems to me to be an unwise answer in this context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u28	Thank you. From the DENK Group, the question is what are the guidelines actually from the central and local governments to invest in crypto coins themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u29	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u30	I see you thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u31	I'm here for money laundering, but this is a question I'm not prepared for. But I can imagine that the answer to this question will be included in the letter I have just promised to Mr Van der Linde. I really don't know. I would indeed gamble and that would be very unwise in this position. Moreover, I have two answers to questions that have been asked before. Sir... sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u32	Nijboer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u33	Nijboer, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u34	That's a colleague you worked with for four years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u35	Out of sight, out of mind, President! No, Mr. Nijboer. His question was whether the value of bitcoins is taxable in box 3. The answer is yes. In doing so, I will save my colleague from a letter, but Mr Van der Linde has already received a commitment to a letter. The second question was from Mrs Leijten and was about the discussion about Our Money. I have just received the answer that this was in question 12 of Mrs Leijten's written set. Apparently, this was a trick question from Mrs Leijten to my address. Following the debate on Our Money, we asked for an opinion from the Scientific Council for Government Policy. I forgot, but that came back to me. The publication of the WRR is expected at the beginning of 2018. In fact, there is also an interview with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u37	Yeah, it's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-12-12-tweedekamer-5.u38	Mrs. Leijten, you've already been. You really can't do this anymore, otherwise I'm gonna have to give everyone the floor, and that's not supposed to happen. Thank you, Minister. That brings us to the end of the oral questions. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. and then we shall vote.
