ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u1	I welcome the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr President, I see that the Minister already wanted to stand behind the chair, but unfortunately he will have to answer the questions first. Mr. Chairman. No one will have noticed that yesterday a referendum on independence was held in Iraqi Kurdistan. In the run-up to this we saw packed stadiums and also in the Kurdish community here in the Netherlands there was a great involvement. Iraqi Kurdistan has made great sacrifices not only for itself but also for the whole of the West and for the Netherlands. It has fought against ISIS on the front lines and made great sacrifices for it. It is hospitable for refugees in the region, it has recorded large numbers. And does that make Iraqi Kurdistan a perfect region? No, absolutely not. But it is a beacon of democracy and peace in this environment. Mr. Chairman. This region has put this issue aside for a long time to focus on other priorities. Now we see that the international community is turning its back on the referendum. I think that is a little unwise, especially from the argument that the referendum will lead to instability. When I look at what is happening now, I also have my concerns about the instability in that region, and I can see that it is now the neighbouring countries that are leading to this instability. I refer to Erdogan, who threatened with a great over-reaction with military actions and economic resources, who spoke of treason by the Iraqi-Kurdish President Barzani, who threatened to stop oil supplies and who today said once again that the Kurds will be starving. I am also looking at Iraq, which understandably reacts negatively but at the same time also throws oil on the fire by holding military exercises with Turkey. I am looking at the United States, which has expressed itself negatively, and I am also looking at the UN, which said that the referendum should be postponed. Mr. Chairman. I understand all these concerns, but at the same time we have to ask ourselves whether these concerns are justified and why we should turn our backs on Iraqi Kurdistan so hard. That is why I have the following questions to this Minister. How does the Minister assess Erdogan's statements? Is he prepared to take a stand against this? Does the Minister consider that Iraqi Kurdistan meets the Montevideo criteria? Does the Minister expect President Barzani to be responsible for dealing with the outcome? What position will the Netherlands, including in the European Union, take with regard to 1. the referendum and 2. the outcome of the referendum, just assuming that that will be a 'yes' for the sake of convenience?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Madam President. In national and international politics, timing of the essence is essential, especially in a geopolitically extremely dangerous and complicated situation. Let me put it first, with Mr Sjoerdsma, my great sympathy for the Kurdish people and our good relations with the Kurdish Autonomous Region in Erbil. I have spoken extensively with the Erbil government in New York over the last few days, including this referendum. It is true that, with the exception of Israel, the international community has raised serious doubts about the timing of this referendum. We are currently in an extremely complicated situation in Iraq and Syria, where there are a number of points where there is an endgame of regional and geopolitical powers, as one might say. In this context, it has been said by the Dutch Government, but also by the European Union and others, that the time at which this referendum is held is not only unwise, but it is not advisable. Iraq currently faces many problems, including the fight against ISIS. The Kurdish Autonomous Region also faces major challenges, especially internally, in terms of its democratic character. They are trying to solve this at the moment, but it is not that there are no major problems in the political relations between them, including the situation in Kirkuk. In addition, everyone agrees that the referendum will have an impact on the position of the wider Kurdish community and stability in the region. As far as we are concerned, a constructive dialogue between Baghdad and Erbil must be at the forefront. The Netherlands and the international community have stressed this several times in the run-up to the referendum. I did that last week. The United Nations has done so, and many of its allies have done so. Last week, a proposal was also made by the United Nations to facilitate the negotiation process between Baghdad and Erbil. The EU has supported this initiative. I did the same on behalf of the Dutch Government. When it comes to the position of neighbouring countries, you can imagine that in fact all the countries which have themselves a Kurdish community have abandoned it in a more intense language. This applies, of course, particularly to Iraq itself, but also to Iran, which has closed its borders, and Turkey. I would just like to say that, also on the basis of the Dutch initiative, a statement by the European Union was adopted this afternoon which takes a position on this referendum. It refers to the importance of a good dialogue between Erbil and Baghdad and the possibility of facilitating it. It also calls for peace to be maintained and not for military or economic means to be used to fuel further fire. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to external forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u5	The Minister is right to acknowledge what Iraqi Kurdistan has done for itself, but also for us, in recent times. I also understand very well what the Minister says when it comes to timing. The timing is unfavourable, but I would also like to say that when it comes to these issues, there is never a good timing. Now the referendum has taken place, whether we liked it or not, whether we liked it or not. The Minister is talking about a statement in the EU, but I have not yet seen that statement myself. I have tried to keep up until the minute, until this meeting, so perhaps the Minister can say something about what that position is. I think that is important, also because I have asked the Minister whether Iraqi Kurdistan meets the Montevideo criteria. I'd like an answer to that. It doesn't matter how we look at a referendum. Of course you can see that from stability. In this respect, I believe that the neighbouring countries have a responsible role to play. I fully agree with the Minister that they should take responsibility. But I also think that we should look at our own responsibility when it comes to the right to self-determination. This raises an important question, namely whether Iraqi Kurdistan meets these criteria. I also understand that this still does not mean that we are going to acknowledge something from today to tomorrow, which seems very unwise to me, but it does mean something for our attitude in the dialogue with and the pressure we are putting on Iraq. Let us also note this: Iraqi Kurdistan is, of course, trapped in cooperation with Iraq, an Iraq that does not cooperate, an Iraq where they have been subjected to genocide, where they have been poisoned. They can't count on good cooperation right now. So we can expect a lot from the Iraqi Kurds, but not the impossible. I want to hear those two things from the Minister today. Do they meet the criteria and will that also mean something for the Dutch attitude later?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u6	I cannot answer the question about the Montevideo criteria. I should look into that legally. I can't exactly judge that right now, but I'd like to do that. Then there is the other point. You must be aware that the Netherlands has an exceptionally good relationship with the Erbil government. We have also discussed this extensively in recent days, particularly in relation to the referendum. I understand that the history of the Kurds is, of course, a dramatic one. We didn't just see that during the last Gulf War. At that time the Americans set up another zone there to protect the Kurds. I think we should also be very grateful for the role of the peshmerga, which is also being trained by the Netherlands in the fight against ISIS. Nevertheless, I would like to show another side of today's Iraq. There is currently a major problem with the territorial integrity of Iraq, which we respect, the division of power among ourselves, the position of the Kurds in Kirkuk and the need for reconciliation in the Ninevé plain. That means that everyone, from the United Nations to the European Union and the neighbouring countries, although for different reasons, we do not have to share them all, has said: do not do this at the moment, that is unwise, it will be counterproductive. We'll see if that's the case. Honestly, I hope not. In any case, I believe that it strengthens the position of the Kurdish Government, perhaps internally, because there are many internal developments in the Kurdish Autonomous Region which also concern me, especially as regards the role of the elections, the parliament and also human rights. I would certainly not call it a beacon of democracy. It is a people who have our sympathy and I also understand it. A lot of people chose yesterday. I see now that they see this primarily as strengthening their negotiating position in the definition of Iraq's future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr Sjoerdsma. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. President, I would like to make a procedural appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u9	The procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u10	Exactly, I would like to receive the letter on the legal side for the forthcoming debate on the Foreign Affairs Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u11	The reaction may be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u12	Mr President, I have not promised a letter. I said I want to look at the Montevideo criteria, because this is absolutely not just a legal matter. It is mainly a political matter about the timing of a referendum. If further questions are asked, we will answer them in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u13	Then I'll go to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u14	The Minister describes all kinds of problems in the region. There are these problems; it is a complicated region. Looking at the history of the Kurdish people, persecuted, massacred, discriminated against for decades, and looking at its position within Iraq, it is only up to the Kurdish people to decide whether it wants to express their opinion on future independence. Then it is true, I would ask the Minister, that not Erdogan, not Trump, not this minister or not me, but only the Kurdish people themselves? And two, does the Minister share my view regarding security in the region that not the Kurds, who are fighting against the IS fascists, are causing instability there, but Mr Erdogan, who is suppressing his own people and who is now illegally threatening military action?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u15	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u16	Does the Minister also want to condemn this in a European context?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u17	On the first question: I do not agree with Mrs Karabulut. I believe that in Iraq there is a problem of Sunnis, Shiites, Christian minorities and Kurds, who are divided among themselves and who have the right to talk about their future in all kinds of ways. Yes, but in a mutual debate, in coordination, otherwise it is very risky for the situation which is already very serious. So it is certainly not the case that the Kurdish people can only decide what happens in that part of Iraq. I would add that, for example, the definition of what the territory should be, is unclear. There is a great deal of uncertainty in Kirkuk, so I disagree with you. The Kurdish people obviously have a strong voice in this. It also has the right to self-determination. We have great sympathy for that people, as I have said, but everyone agrees that the way it is done, the way it is done, is essential for the peace and security of many peoples in that region. As far as the second is concerned, I thought I said what I said about it. I think everyone should keep calm. The same applies to neighbouring countries. I have also raised this in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u18	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Karabulut, I say to Mr Öztürk: if you want to ask a question, you must walk to the interrupting microphone. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u19	Consternation, I understand, but okay. Mr President, on that first point, I think the Minister misunderstood me. I am not asking for a ruling from the Minister on the independence of the Kurds. What strikes me is that the whole world is concerned that a Kurdish people, who is indeed entitled to self-determination, wants to express their opinion and has now voted on their future by means of a referendum. The follow-up, I agree with the Minister, you will have to decide by mutual agreement, but the fact that a people wants to vote by referendum is not up to the Minister, that is not up to Erdogan, that is not up to me to decide. I'd like another comment on that. And second of all...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u20	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u21	Mr President, on that second point I would like to make a slightly clearer start, because we are talking about the stability of the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u22	No, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u23	Is the Minister at least prepared to advocate an arms embargo on Turkey at EU level?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u24	The Minister. This is oral Question Time and not a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u25	The answer to the second question is no, and so does Mrs Karabulut. We talked about that last week. I am opposed to national arms embargoes and, in any case, to arms embargoes. We will always assess arms exports according to the criteria and they are very restrictive with regard to Turkey. With regard to the second question, I would like to point out that the Netherlands recognises the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Iraq. That certainly does not mean that only the Kurdish people are concerned about that. I have great sympathy for that, I told you. I also think it is quite understandable that, in the current situation, the international community has said that it was unwise to do so at the moment, but of course the government in Erbil can organise such a referendum and has also shown that a large majority of that people are in favour of self-determination.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u26	The SGP Group also believes that the wishes of the Kurds themselves about their political future should be weighed fairly. It is good to come back to this further on the basis of Montevideo's criteria. But my question is now about the position of our military in this area. If the tension continues, which we certainly must consider possible, what does that mean for the security and for the position of our soldiers in that area? That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u27	Nothing right now. The insecurity has not been increased. There is a lot of verbal violence from many countries in the area that, I think, wanted to prevent this referendum from being held. We have no reason to believe that security in that area or in our Dutch military is in danger. Of course, that is monitored every day. Again, I will return to the Montevideo criteria. I would point out that they are really about declaring independence and not about this phase. In that sense, they are irrelevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u28	As the one who once advocated a consulate in Erbil, I am delighted to see how the Kurds have developed since then. This is one of the most stable areas in the Arab region. The Minister has already said what is necessary about whether the referendum was so convenient in terms of timing. I would like to make it clear here and I agree that it is important that we set the Montevideo criteria aside. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this means something for recognition, if necessary at a strategic time, in the long term. This may be in writing. I'm sure the Minister knows what I'm talking about. Apparently, there are other peoples who claim this, but are far from meeting Montevideo. Then you know it, too. I have another question. We see many Kurdish troops being withdrawn to the cities in the autonomous region. What does that mean for our fight against ISIS? Can it be carried out with less force? Is the Minister prepared to urge the Kurdish authorities to continue to respect minorities in these Kurdish cities? I am thinking in particular of Christian minorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u29	I think the latter is an important point. When we talk about the rights of the Kurdish people, we must immediately realise that a lot of minorities also live in the area where the Kurds live. In the past, we have talked about the fact that there are real risks to human rights there. This is independent of our understanding of the Kurdish people, but I think that is important. In all movements towards independence, the problem of minorities is always essential. In that sense, I also distance myself from the statement that it is only up to the Kurdish people. A significant part of it is, but we are also dealing with a territorial integrity that we recognise. I will certainly submit the Montevideo criteria to you. At this point, they do not change anything, because these criteria are only to be discussed once independence has been declared. About the strategic introduction of recognition of a state... I believe that now that I am most likely at the end of my period as Minister, I am no longer able to make a major contribution to that, but I am doing my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u30	First of all, we want to say that we, as DENK, stand for the sovereignty of the state of Iraq. The whole international community then indicated its position. There are arguments about timing and unrest in the region. The views of the various political parties are also becoming clear in this Chamber. My question to the Minister is as follows. It is striking that Israel's position differs from the rest of the international community. Can the Minister explain to me why this is actually the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u31	I don't know. I have no further knowledge of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u32	A follow-up question is allowed, but you don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u33	Then we do not know. I was looking forward to that, too. We'll see which line this fits in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u34	I wouldn't say that. I believe that a country such as Israel can also take a position on this. I can't judge what line that fits in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u35	Let me go back to the Minister's words on Turkey. Turkey has even threatened to attack Iraq, at least Kurdish Iraq. Those were very firm words. He talked about terrorist states when it came to the Kurdistan border. Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs going to address Turkey in a European context, which seems more sensible to me as a NATO ally? There is no declaration of independence of the Kurds at all, and negotiations with Baghdad are yet to take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u36	I already said what I said about that. I generally think that everyone should keep calm now. We also made this point in an EU declaration this afternoon. Knowing Mr Erdogan, I found those statements to be more moderate than he normally does. I saw mainly the statements from Iran and Iraq. However, let there be no misunderstanding about that, I think that no state should in one way or another act intimidatingly in the direction of another state. I have just told you how we have dealt with this within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. Normally, after that oral Question Time, votes take place, but today we are deviating from that. First, we are going to debate an emergency law on the mandatory own risk. After dealing with that emergency bill, we're going to vote.
