ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We shall begin with Mrs Dierten's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I would like to welcome in Box K. I call Mrs Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hurricane Irma left a trail of destruction on Saint Martin. The images of the massive damage are on our retina. We are now working with man and power to repair the damage. One rows with the belts one has. They show themselves to be very resilient, but the violence of nature also has a psychological impact. It must not be underestimated. I don't want to talk about the material damage right now. We have already called for attention to be paid to this. I'd like to talk about the people. People who were terrified as the hurricane overtook, who tried to protect themselves and their children from the violence of nature and hoped that the walls of the house would stand. People who lost everything that came out of their hiding places after the hurricane and saw their whole world turned upside down. Everything was different in one fell swoop. Mr. Chairman. The association of Psychologists on St.Maarten states that the psychological well-being of the population is not sufficiently taken into account in the reconstruction process. They are already warning of post-traumatic stress complaints and other psychological complaints that may arise. They support this with research. How do we ensure that attention is paid not only to material damage, but also to psychological damage? To get the island back on its feet, we need to help the people who carry the island, who form the community. They must be strong in order to be able to rebuild again. That is why I ask the Minister: how is the money from the recovery fund being spent in such a way that in the long term it will also strengthen the island so that people can actually continue their lives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, the reason I am here is that Secretary of State Knops is currently at St.Maarten to talk about how things are going there, also about the conditions for reconstruction soon. I think Mrs. Diertens just said it very well. You'd have been hit by Hurricane Irma. In a material sense, it has caused enormous destruction, but it is above all a human disaster. It has already been two and a half months, but people directly affected by Irma had no water, no food and no roof over their heads at the moment. At first people then go into a kind of survival mode and solve it, but we should not underestimate what effect, even very long-term, that can have on people. It is very good that Mrs. Dierten's attention is drawn to the psychological side of the trauma that affects people. It has been addressed in the framework of the first emergency aid provided by Saint Martin himself, by Aruba and Curaçao, which should not remain unnamed, and by the Netherlands. There has been a great deal of attention in recent times to psychosocial assistance and psychological support. There was also intensive attention for children, which we should not forget; schools were wiped out. We will enter a second phase of aid later. Then it's about reconstruction. It is quite right for Mrs Diertens to say: even then it is not just about the material side but also about the prostration of the people. Eventually, the people on Saint Martin want to move on with their lives. They will always carry this event with them, but they must be able to shake it off. I therefore support Mrs Dierten's remark that everything that is being done must also focus on psychosocial aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u5	Thank you for supporting my distress call. People should not only have a roof on their house, but also a foundation on which to build. That foundation is also in their own power. Thank you for paying attention to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u6	When you're done, Mrs. Diertens, you can sit down again. Thank you. Mrs Van Tongeren, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u7	After the emergency emergency response, it is important that people get the direction back and feel that they have participation, as I have been told by experts. Now, of course, a heavy political quarrel has been fought on St.Maarten, in which ordinary people in the street, like the ordinary woman with a souvenir shop, are not so involved. Does the Netherlands also consider a form of involving residents in the choices that are made? In the Netherlands, for example, we have district councils and advisory councils. We have several possibilities for people to talk directly about the way their neighborhood, street, district or school is organized.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u8	That's a very good point. The reason for the political debate, which we have all heard, is that we, the Netherlands, consider it important that the money for reconstruction ends up with the people who need it. We therefore want to impose conditions on this. We want an integrity chamber to be set up and border control to be in order to prevent the money from being spent properly. I think it is in the interest of those same people we were just talking about that we are setting such harsh conditions for making money available for reconstruction. The suggestion made by Mrs Van Tongeren is a very good one. The people who need the money should also be involved in the way that money is used. That seems to me to be a guarantee of spending the money, which, as I said, should be put in the right place. So I'd like to take the question with me. The Secretary of State, who is there now, speaks to all kinds of people, not only to the authorities, but also, of course, to affected people. As far as I am concerned, therefore, it is self-evident, but I will stress this once again in the light of the attention you are calling for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u9	I am proud that the Netherlands invests so much money in the reconstruction of Sint-Maarten, but that cannot be sold if the money does not end up in the right place. It's gotta be really fast, too. Can the Minister explain how things stand now? Because people are waiting for Saint Martin, for a rooftop, for a job, for an income. They feel that there has been talk of reconstruction for a long time, but they are asking why it has not yet taken place. Can the Minister indicate where the knot is, where the problem is and what needs to be done to start tomorrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u10	I think it is important that we continue to distinguish between emergency aid, which has actually been granted right from the start, and reconstruction. As regards reconstruction, we have said that it is important that a number of conditions relating to border control and the integrity room are met. I just got off the phone with the Secretary of State. The picture we have since last Friday is that the political situation is such that we have an interlocutor, that all the conditions will be met, including the integrity room. There are still one or two steps to be taken, but we are now cautiously positive about the outcome. All this is done with the aim of starting reconstruction as soon as possible, so that not only is emergency aid provided, but also more structural reconstruction on the island.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-2.u11	Thank you.
