ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. I give the floor to Mrs Karabulut. Speaking time is two minutes, including tabling motions, but Mrs Karabulut knows that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u2	Certainly, Mr President, otherwise you will make it clear to me. I'll move on to filing the motion immediately. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the coalition led by Saudi Arabia is guilty of serious violations of human rights and war law in Yemen, including by air attacks on civilian targets and the establishment of a blockade, which makes humanitarian aid more difficult;]] [[calls on the Government, as long as Saudi Arabia continues to violate the law of war in Yemen, to establish a national authorisation stop for the export and transit of military equipment to Saudi Arabia and to advocate the adoption of this policy at EU level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Karabulut. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1734]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u3	As is well known, the Minister and his fellow foreign ministers will meet in Brussels on Monday. That's where Yemen's central focus is. I think it is good and important that the Minister should put this at the centre, because there is a terrible disaster going on in Yemen. In the paper yesterday, someone wrote that war is the biggest cause of the food crisis. I think we should do everything we can to stop this war. In Yemen, there is a war under the direction of the Saudis. I think it is important to take a very political step by establishing an arms embargo.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u4	We have just had a wide-ranging debate on this, but I am somewhat surprised at the tabling of this motion. All the fine words after reading that motion cannot hide what incredible symbolism Mrs Karabulut is doing again today. Everyone in this Chamber knows that unilaterally declaring an arms embargo does nothing, nada, niente, zero point zero for the situation we all want to fight. Mrs Karabulut explained that today. The Minister was clear about that. A number of political groups which were normally still in favour of a unilateral arms embargo were also clear about this. I ask Mrs Karabulut why she has tabled this motion, since she can also check that it will have zero effect; nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u5	I assume that this motion will have an effect, otherwise I would not be submitting it. I note that the humanitarian situation has been deteriorating for years. I note that international organisations say time and time again that war law and humanitarian law are being violated. I note that efforts have been made for years to stop the war, but that this is not possible and Saudi Arabia is at the forefront of it; a country that violates human rights in every way possible. I think it is important that we set an example. Mr Ten Broeke does not have a glass ball either. Perhaps that will help and more countries will follow. I think that doing nothing and moving forward on this basis is worse than taking this step and seeing if it has any effect, because I do believe in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u6	Mr Broeke, you just said: no repetition of the same debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u7	No, not a repeat, but for the record I will say it once in plenary. Mrs Karabulut had already announced this yesterday, so she is simply working on her own agenda. The Netherlands is already delivering almost nothing. The only way to make the Dutch attitude a European attitude is to give the Netherlands the opportunity to tell its own story within Europe. She's taking that story away from us with her motion. In doing so, it does nothing for an arms embargo or for the humanitarian situation in Yemen. I find this objectionable symbolic policy, and that must be said here once and for all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u8	On the contrary. This strengthens our positions. If Mr Ten Broeke also believes that there should be zero arms exports, what would be against an arms embargo? This morning we had a debate with the Minister for Development Cooperation. Yesterday, the Dutch people massively assisted the Yemeni people by showing solidarity and giving money for help. That aid cannot be given by the blockades of this coalition. I therefore believe that it would be a sensible step, including for the VVD, to follow this political move rather than call it symbolic politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has indeed given generously. This Parliament is known for always trying to make a difference and to lead the way if it can. We can make a difference, not by being right here again, then leaving the Chamber and thinking that we have done something about the situation in Yemen, but by calling on other countries that do supply weapons to do so and to stick to the strict Dutch approach. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering the involvement of the Saudi military in the violation of human rights in Yemen;]] [[Whereas the granting of licences for the sale of arms to Saudi Arabia is undesirable if there is no doubt that such weapons can contribute to such human rights violations;]] [[calls on the Government to commit itself within the European Union to a restrictive arms export policy towards Saudi Arabia, as currently maintained by the Dutch Government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Knops and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1735]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u10	This morning there was a debate on emergency aid. After consulting my colleague who spoke in that debate, I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in large parts of Africa and the Middle East serious famines occur or threaten to occur, of which millions are victims;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is already contributing financially to helping the people affected by these crises;]] [[believes that it is essential at present to reach these people effectively and as soon as possible with the promised help;]] [[Considering that a naval blockade has been established by the coalition led by Saudi Arabia with the aim of implementing UN Security Council Resolution 2216, in which an arms embargo has been declared against the Houthis in Yemen;]] [[noting that this maritime blockade is at the same time a major obstacle to the shipment of food and relief goods to Yemen and thus to the provision of assistance to the affected persons in that country;]] [[calls on the Government, at international level, to stop the entry into force of the weapons verification and inspection mechanism, so that food and relief supplies can proceed without delay to those affected in Yemen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ten Broeke. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-02-1736]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u11	I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik. It's gonna be a short maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u12	Yes, it'll be a short maiden speech, but I'll take the flowers with equal pleasure, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u13	They'll be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u14	GroenLinks has always tabled and/or supported motions in this Chamber calling for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia for all kinds of reasons. The behaviour of Saudi Arabia in Yemen has only added the necessary reasons. We'll do that now, too. I would like to say something about this, also to Mr Ten Broeke, and certainly to the Minister. From the discussions that we had this afternoon, it has emerged that it is particularly important that the minister in Brussels should make an effort to keep the real culprits in check. The Netherlands is not that culprit, I say to Mr Ten Broeke and, if necessary, to the Minister, but the real culprits are countries such as the UK and France, which supply billions of weapons to Saudi Arabia. The existing restrictive arms export policy is clearly not enough to control those countries. So there's more to it. The Netherlands has a good record. That is why, even if Mrs Karabulut's motion is adopted, this Minister can, with complete conviction and credibility, do what I believe this Chamber wants: call on the EU Member States to make a step forward and take further steps towards exporting arms to Saudi Arabia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u15	It's like you've never left, Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u16	I assume this is a compliment, although of course I'm not quite sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. I begin by congratulating Mr Van Ojik on his wonderful contribution. I don't see any flowers from Mr Voortman yet, but I do see a kiss; look at that. The Christian Union Group is faced with a difficult dilemma with regard to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia blocks humanitarian aid to Yemen and bombs innocent civilians in Yemen. So there would be every reason to bring such an arms embargo into force now. At the same time, the Minister expresses his hope that he will be able to influence colleagues in Brussels, calling for a more restrictive arms export policy towards Saudi Arabia. He hopes, with his influence and those of his colleagues, to be able to lift the Saudi blockade of Yemen. The Christian Union Group therefore wishes to give the Minister the opportunity to use his influence. In the end, it is the result for the innocent citizens of Yemen. If this does not lead to results, the Christian Union Group will consider how an arms embargo can be achieved, but for the time being my group would like to give the Minister the opportunity to exercise his influence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think the Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions. I will make one comment on Yemen and then turn to the motions that have been tabled. Yesterday, the Dutch people showed their solidarity with Yemen and three other countries with great conviction. On behalf of the Dutch Government, I would like to say how very important that is. We sometimes think that we are very much inward in the world, but this shows solidarity with many people in the world, including the people in Yemen, who are suffering greatly. It is a country in which the Netherlands has been involved for a long time and for which I have been very committed in recent years. The same applies to the problem we face today: how can we achieve humanitarian access to Yemen? Last week I discussed this with the United Nations. We're in the process of getting humanitarian access in Sanaa and the docks. We are in the process of detaching the political process. The Netherlands has been the first country to take action, both in the UN Human Rights Council and in relation to arms exports. We are by far the smallest arms supplier to Saudi Arabia: de facto we do not deliver. If you look at the amounts in Europe, you can see that they are about 0.01%. Apparently, today's debate should be about 0.01% for a package that has been delivered. I am convinced that I must now ensure that we have access to Yemen for humanitarian supplies. I have already said that the Netherlands does not support Saudi Arabia's intervention. De facto, we don't supply weapons to Saudi Arabia. We haven't had national arms embargoes in 30 years. After all, the Chamber has said that we are doing this in a European framework, because that is the only way to do it effectively. That is why the Netherlands has managed to get Yemen on the agenda for next Monday. I have made it very clear to the House that I am also saying to Mr Van Ojik that a national arms embargo stops any discussion on what we want to achieve, namely that arms exports in Europe are being dealt with much more restrictively. I go for the effect, the objective and the urgency of the matter. That is why I am giving the following judgment on the motions that have been tabled. The Karabulut motion in part No. 1734 I strongly advise against. I think she's impossible, too. Indeed, a national authorisation stop does not exist or is not in accordance with the General Administrative Law. We can't set a stop. There's no such thing. That's legally impossible. In addition, I find the motion impossible for the political reasons I mentioned. So I'm deceiving the motion. In the motion in part No. 1735 by Mr Ten Broeke, Mr Knops and Mrs Van den Hul is something that I think is very important. That is the question of how we are really going to be effective. How are we really going to ensure that there are no weapons from Europe to Saudi Arabia that can be abused in Yemen? That's what I'm gonna do. The Chamber cannot ask me for a result obligation. It's still national policy. But it is not for nothing that we have that European policy. This is the only way we can work with the other initiatives we are taking towards Yemen, with the United Nations, with the European Union and with other organisations. I would like to point out the money that was generously shared last week or that will be shared with Yemen from the Dutch people. I'd say judge Room. There is an important point in the third motion. After all, the question is: how are you going to do that in practice? We have a UN verification mechanism for that. The Dutch government also supports this. This motion calls on the Government to insist internationally that the verification and inspection mechanism on arms for food and aid should cease to apply, so that these matters can be forwarded without delay to those affected in Yemen. It is a verification mechanism based on a UN Security Council resolution. I'm not in there yet, so I can't just change that. But, of course, I can talk to colleagues in there. But the essence of the matter is: let us now ensure that this access is regulated and that these matters are no longer subject to control by removing the verification mechanism. That's what I think it's about. That is what we discussed in the debate. I very much share Mr Ten Broeke's view on this. So that means you need a third party, in this case the United Nations. That is why I would like to leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u20	The Minister says: I go for the result, I go for the effect. So are we. That's something that binds us, not something that divides us. The question is: how do we achieve that effect? That's what this discussion is about. That is the difference between Mr Ten Broeke's motion and Mrs Karabulut's. The Minister says that we have a common restrictive European arms export policy for a reason. Where was this policy when billions of arms were delivered to Saudi Arabia by our fellow EU countries? Where was this restrictive EU policy? That failed!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u21	Yeah, but that's exactly why you have to do something about it. That is why the Dutch Government has long taken the initiative and has now managed to bring it up at the highest level in the European Union. We also do this in COARM. I see social movements in France, in the United Kingdom and more and more in Germany, which support us in this. The battle was not fought in one day. I would like to talk about European arms exports policy. However, I see that as the only possibility. The whole point of something that is also difficult to implement has nothing to do with us not doing it right. We're leading the way. So that's not the whole point. If, after 30 years of history, we say with a European approach that we are going back to a national embargo, then I will give you a note that nobody is interested in that Dutch position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u22	This discussion has been conducted extensively in general consultation. This really is about a VAO and any questions about the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u23	The Minister is having a discussion that we should not have at all. It is not a question of whether or not a national arms embargo is involved; it is a question of whether, after decades of failing policies, political steps are finally being taken towards a country such as Saudi Arabia. The point is that the EU's restrictive arms export policy, on which Mr Han ten Broeke has once again tabled a motion, is already there. This must not be contrary to human rights, it must ensure peace and stability, but it does not work. The point is that the Netherlands could show courage and set an example by taking this step.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u24	It's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u25	I'm saying exactly the opposite. Mrs Karabulut says she wants to achieve this. She says she is calling for this policy to be adopted at EU level. However, the policy is national policy, which is a national authorisation stop. That's so contradictory. That leads to the opposite of what Mrs Karabulut wants to achieve. It's not just ineffective. It will ensure that we do not have any progress in the European area. France and the United Kingdom can then continue and will not receive any criticism from other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u26	I have the impression that the arguments are repeated again. Mrs Karabulut, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u27	Yesterday there was an item at EenVandaag that shows that we are delivering weapons directly or indirectly that are probably used for the war there. Each percentage point is too much in that respect. I can't see into the future. I know that political measures are being taken, but when I look at the last two years, I see that arms have only grown and that the war has taken more serious forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u28	But that is not the case with the Netherlands. We'll do everything we can to prevent that from happening. We have a de facto arms embargo. Mrs Karabulut now refers to a programme that was broadcast last night. I'd like her to stick to the facts. The Netherlands does not supply weapons that can be used in the war in Yemen. That is a principled position. We are doing everything we can to prevent weapons supplied by the Netherlands from being used there. I think that's important. That position should be supported by Mrs Karabulut. If she asks for European policy but in fact says that countries should regulate it nationally, then we will achieve nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-8.u29	I'm suspending the sitting and then we're going to vote on the motions that have been tabled.
