ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u1	Mr. Chairman. For some time now, the CDA has indicated that the current housing policy of the cabinet is not sufficient. Now we have read in De Telegraaf that the Planning Office for the Environment also indicates that there is a drastic shortage of rental homes for middle incomes. So more needs to be built. The independent PBL has issued a report on this issue, from which we can derive this. Does the Minister finally consider that more needs to be built to solve this problem? The Minister received the report from the PBL. Can we get a first reflection from him on the main suggestions of the PBL? Can we find out from him what he's gonna do with the report? We see that in the overheated regions of Amsterdam and Utrecht there is animo to build or take over rental homes. This does not apply to other regions. My specific question about this group of house seekers in Groningen, Brabant and Limburg is how the Minister intends to deal with this. There are no investors in these regions. The stricter rules for corporations building social housing and the higher mortgage thresholds make it impossible for hardworking Dutch people with low income or middle income to find shelter. The CDA has been warning about this for a long time, as I said, but now the Planning Office for the Environment is doing so explicitly and with a good report. A suggestion that is made is to give corporations more space to realize housing in the middle segment. To what extent does the Minister see an opportunity to increase this space for corporations in this segment? Locking up. After four years of Minister Blok's housing policy, we see long waiting lists, high rental prices and corporations that have been chased back into their homes and are not allowed, as well as investors who fail, also investors from abroad. Could the PBL report be a wake-up call for the Minister, who seems to deny that this problem exists?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes asked a number of questions following the report of the Planning Bureau for the Environment. From the question I get the strong impression that the recommendations of the PBL did not come across very well. In any case, we agree that there is a strong rising demand for middle-priced rentals. That's not new; we've talked about that before in the Chamber. Not only have we discussed it, but it has also given rise to a number of measures. I mention the adjustment of the housing valuation system and the approach to investors at home and abroad, which also indicate a strong interest in investments. They not only show great interest in investing in middle-priced rentals, but they also do. Fortunately, the number of middle-priced rentals has increased enormously. Fortunately, after years of decline, there has been a return to growth in recent years. However, demand is increasing even further. That is why I welcome the report of the Planning Bureau for the Environment, which sets out a number of very practical routes to make even more rapid progress. Contrary to what Mr Ronnes suggests in his questions, this is not by changing the law. Fortunately, Mr Ronnes voted in favour of that law. What the Plan Bureau for the Environment indicates is that there are a number of routes along which housing corporations together with pension funds, with investors, can provide more middle-priced rental homes. They can sell the more expensive part of the stock to pension funds, for example. Then it's just rent homes, but the proceeds can be used by the corporations to improve the insulation of the current stock. That's a big job. The corporations can also build up in areas where this is necessary. In addition, without legal changes for corporations, there are very good opportunities to do things yourself. They can also work with investors. We don't have to change the law for that. If corporations house part of their homes in a legal subsidiary, they can attract additional investors' money to build additional homes. It doesn't take a law change. Corporates can also build middle-priced rentals themselves or let their legal daughter do so. It doesn't take a law change. They should not use State aid for this purpose. That was a recommendation from the Committee of Inquiry. There is no need to change the law. If the corporations do not want to use their legal daughter for this, they can also build these houses in the social part, but then they have to demonstrate by a market test that the market does not want to do so. There is no need to change the law. What's to be done? Yesterday at the meeting at which I received the report and where all the residents were present, we discussed this in detail. It's two things. Investors, municipalities and corporations must find each other. These are often separate worlds, and that is why I asked Mr Van Gijzel to start a discussion table to bring these parties together. Mr Van Gijzel has begun to do so. Then there is the second point. Whether it is social housing, free sector housing or residential housing, in a number of areas there is an urgent need for building land. I have already mentioned this to the Chamber before, and Mr De Vries has asked me to do so with great emphasis on the fact that in the coming weeks I will be going to the housing market regions. The agreements are already in my agenda, with two questions for figures under my arm. One is what the demand for housing is and the other is what the planning capacity is. If this capacity is insufficient, the question is what is to be done about it. The presentation yesterday of the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment report was that the line was widely supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister will answer my questions in detail. He took a long run to indicate what has already been achieved. I do not deny that measures have been taken that contribute to the creation of new volume. However, I read in the report that this translates too little into results. During Question Time we should not have the technical and substantive discussion. Is it possible for the Minister to formulate a written response to the report so that the Chamber can consider it? When can we expect the results of the living table? That table was set recently. I want to know if the Minister has set himself a deadline on which he wants to see results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u4	I will be happy to provide the written response requested to the report. I have informed the Chamber that I will send a report after the first year of Mr Van Gijzel's activities. I have also said that in the meantime, of course, I will keep in regular contact with him. I will also keep the Chamber informed of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u5	In particular, the last answer raises the question of whether there is a point on which the Chamber can expect anything. It's still a bit of an open end. Is there a date or a deadline, for example just before the summer, when the Chamber is informed so that it can see what is happening at that table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u6	I think it makes sense for Mr Van Gijzel to be able to make meters first. He started on January 1st. I'd be happy to send a stand-off to the Chamber before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr Van der Linde, VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u8	Mr. Chairman. I approach this from the perspective of that ordinary, hardworking Dutchman with a modal income. It runs towards the municipality, but it still says: I can't do anything, I can't spend any land in the county. Can the Minister indicate what needs to be done to finally get these municipalities to publish that building land, to build Valkenburg and to build in Lansingerland?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u9	Luckily, it's not like all the municipalities go into contramine. There are municipalities where there are happy buildings. With the airport Valkenburg, which is indeed part of the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf, we are happy to start to speed up. However, I share Mr Van der Linde's impatience. I agree with him that people with a normal middle income should be able to find a home in the Randstad as well. That is why I go to provinces and municipalities where the available building land, the planning capacity as it is called, is lagging behind. My only question then is: how are you going to fill it out? In the Netherlands, spatial planning is at provincial and municipal level. To be honest, I have good hopes that they will cooperate in this, because they are also their inhabitants, and ultimately we are all on the national government to ensure that people are properly served. However, that battle must be made and I will inform the Chamber of the progress made by the summer, including the figures for each region.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mr. Chairman. A house is a first need for life. I find it shocking to see how laconically this minister refers to other parties, while here in the Chamber we have been talking for years about the policy that this minister has pursued in recent years. The middle class is the social rental sector driven out with high rents and a stop on renting out to this group. At the same time, it has been made harder for this group to buy a house. The middle class has been brutally abandoned by this minister. What's happening at the housing market is no surprise either. This minister is responsible for this, but he is pointing to other parties. I find it truly shocking. I ask this Minister: what are you going to do today for all those people who can't get a home?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Madlener is very concerned about what has happened in recent years. There was no cabinet after the war that took as many measures in the housing market as this cabinet. This was done from the observation that four years ago houses were flooded massively, the housing market had collapsed and unemployment in construction exploded. People with houses under water were afraid to move. It was very difficult to get a mortgage, because there were hardly any banks that answered the phone. The corporation sector was completely caught up in the scandals. The Court has launched a survey on this subject, which has led to a very long series of measures. Fortunately, we note that the market side is recovering enormously. We also note that the corporation sector is financially strong again and has considerable investment capacity. That doesn't mean the job's done. The subject that Mr Ronnes' question was about, the middle-priced rent, is not new. We have taken action on that. I have just mentioned this: adapting the housing valuation system, attracting investors. That's all running fast. They now come to the question: where is the available building land? That is not a matter of pointing to others. We have rightly agreed in this Chamber that the planning of the Netherlands, i.e. where residential areas and industrial sites are located, are not centrally arranged from The Hague. Nor can we at all; we cannot determine where the residential area in Kerkrade or Cadzand should be located. That's gotta be local. We can see whether this is happening sufficiently quickly. Because I have found that this is not happening in a number of places sufficiently quickly, I have set up the consultation table and announced that I will be visiting all these housing market regions in the near future. So let us not pretend to each other that nothing has happened, nor should we pretend to each other that there is a new problem that is not being addressed. They're working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u12	I don't deny that much has happened. In fact, because so much has happened, that middle class is now stuck. For many years, this minister has handed out tens of thousands of rental homes to asylum seekers. That was all fine. He didn't want to do anything about it, despite all the debates in this Chamber from my party. At the same time, this minister has made it more difficult for the middle class to buy a house and the social sector has been cut off. That's exactly what happened. You did, Minister. That policy has put so many people in the cold, and we have been talking about this for years. I find it really shocking to see this cabinet abandoning our hard-working middle class.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u13	That too is Mr Madlener's own interpretation of reality. For refugees with a residence status, a separate scheme has been created to ensure that sober, affordable housing becomes available to them. Pressure shall be applied to that arrangement. As regards affordability for the starting house buyer, for example, the Netherlands Bank has recently published a report showing that for a starter the housing costs have not been as low in years as in these years. It's not right that it's priceless all over the country. It certainly pinches in a number of beloved cities. So that's where we need to build. Then I come back to the exciting initiatives that have been taken to that end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u14	The Labour Party also notes that the middle groups are currently very difficult to get a home and there are large deficits. This problem must not be solved by selling corporate homes, but by building houses. The Planning Office for the Environment says that investors can't do that alone. That sees a much bigger role for the corporations. Is the Minister prepared to ask the cooperation table, Mr Van Gijzel, to have a specific discussion with these corporations in order to ensure that they have market tests carried out in advance? They need to find investors who can participate in their subsidiaries, so that there is rapid development. The possibility for corporations to assign more people with a slightly higher income to a corporation dwelling should be increased.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u15	On the contrary, the Planning Office for the Environment clearly indicates that the existing legislation allows the entire palette that Mr De Vries outlines. It doesn't take any other rules. It's gonna take two things. The parties must find each other. That could be before the sale. In many cases, I think that is wise, because it provides the most new money for the housing market, but it is not the only route. It can also take the form of joint investment. In addition, a corporation may still build or operate medium-cost rents itself, provided that it does not use State aid for this purpose. All these possibilities are indeed in Mr Van Gijzel's toolbox. He will need all those parties at the table, because you need them all for the Dutch housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u16	Not only is there a shortage of middle-income housing, there is also a shortage of social housing. The waiting lists in the major cities range from five to eleven years. People have been waiting for years for a place to live. In the meantime, we are talking again about the shortage of housing in the housing market, about the housing shortage that prevails. In a few months we will undoubtedly speak again here, unless we not only talk, but also throw in money. If we abolish the landlord's tax, which only social landlords pay, and invest that money, then housing can be rebuilt. Then we really do something about the waiting lists. Is the Minister prepared to draw a line through the landlord's tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u17	Here Mr Bashir again tells the story that there would be too little money in the housing corporations. Mr Bashir and the entire Chamber received the report from the Housing Authority, which showed a result of 5.5 billion in 2015. If there had been no levy, the result would not be 5.5 billion, but 7.2 billion. Then there wasn't an extra house built. That shows once again that money is not the problem at all. I didn't say to the corporations for nothing: spend that money. We have all this support for corporations to make sure there are good and affordable homes. Well, that's gonna have to be spent. In part, corporations run into a lack of land. So they also go in the bag when I visit the housing market regions. Lack of land, however, can never be a reason to improve and isolate existing homes. So there can be a huge battle there. Again, there is no need to change the legislation. There's plenty of money. We need to move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u18	The recommendation that social housing should now be sold to investors is a recommendation that I think is crazy. We have a long waiting list. Those social rentals need to be preserved for the segment. There's another branch that the minister's right to point out. Corporations have the opportunity to develop rentals in the middle segment in a separate leg, together with investors. He's right to point that out himself. The House Act has been in force for about two years now. It has been announced and investors have always asked for it. Why isn't it happening? Before we let this country be run by hunting teams, ex-mayors and ex-aldermen, it may also be a matter for people to take the initiative themselves. Why are investors and corporations not reading the law in that segment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u19	From his involvement in this law, Mr Monasch, of course, knows very well that there is this possibility. We share the surprise that this has not been dealt with more quickly, but I assume that Mr Monasch agrees with me that this does not mean that a house has yet been built. That was the reason for me to ask Mr Van Gijzel to sit down with those parties. I was at a sort of national meeting yesterday where this report was presented and where both municipalities and investors and housing corporations were present. There it was also recognized that these worlds have stood with their backs to each other for too long. So no matter how obvious it seems to us, look each other up, had already looked each other up, they obviously need that push for that. That is precisely why Mr Van Gijzel is working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u20	My question follows on from Mr Monasch's question. I too have long been calling for attention to be paid to the middle-rent segment, because there is simply too little construction and people cannot find a place to live, especially in the big cities. D66 has included concrete targets in Amsterdam, Utrecht and Rotterdam for the share of intermediate rentals in the new building. We have often talked about this, including in the budgetary procedure. Will the Minister now also promote such a specific objective for medium-term rentals in local policy and, for example, give it to the Van Gijzel Committee? This will make it possible to ensure that municipalities work much more with concrete objectives to build housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-5.u21	Indeed, Mr Koolmees has often drawn attention to this. It is partly on his suggestion that I am now finished with the legislative amendment to allow the inclusion of middle-priced rentals in zoning plans. This gives municipalities the opportunity to include such an objective. Again, I find it illogical to say from The Hague how much per cent of medium-cost rentals are needed. Mr Koolmees mentioned Amsterdam and Rotterdam as an example, but we can add Sittard or Cadzand. Locally, the market is best known. The amendment of the law also makes it possible to establish in the zoning plan that somewhere expensive rentals are being built. This helps people with a middle income then concretely to a home.
