ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u1	A warm word of welcome to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. The Minister has not yet been declared controversial, I understand. That's gonna save you. We have six speakers from the Chamber. The first speaker is Mr Bosman of the VVD Group. He's gonna talk for four minutes, maybe less. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On 26 April 2016, the cooperation between the countries in our Kingdom changed. The European Court of Human Rights ruled on that day that the Kingdom of the Netherlands has infringed Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The children of a man with a prison sentence in Curaçao and Aruba have charged the Netherlands because the prisons in Curaçao and Aruba could not provide the psychological support that was needed. The Netherlands is therefore appealing to the prisons in the other countries of our Kingdom. That means that we will be responsible for these prisons. With this ruling we can therefore conclude that the Kingdom's responsibilities extend beyond the discussion of whether they are autonomous matters of a country or whether there should be intervention by the National Council of Ministers on the basis of Article 43 (2) of the Statute, the guarantee function. My request for a debate is therefore not about the matter, but about the changed relations within our Kingdom. With this statement an extra step has been taken in the escalation ladder. The National Council of Ministers can identify abuses that could lead to a conviction at the European Court, and then act proactively on them. In fact, the National Council of Ministers is obliged to do so. We will then have to note that the autonomy of the countries will be further restricted. But that is the consequence of the Statute we are in. That is a compelling statute, which, in my opinion and according to the VVD, makes no one really happy. The Court's ruling emphasizes once again that there is no real autonomy until there is a clearer separation between countries. That divorce is really possible. The VVD is in favour of a commonwealth of independent countries. Together with my colleague Van Raak from the SP, I have written an initiative paper to create such a commonwealth. I am open to a discussion with the other countries on the further implementation of such a commonwealth. However, the countries must be aware that with the current situation, which has been confirmed by the ruling of the European Court of Justice, there is still a high degree of control from the National Council of Ministers and therefore also from the House of Representatives, especially if the Dutch taxpayer is at risk of paying the costs. Does the Minister agree with this view? Does he also see that this extra step in the escalation ladder is important? And more importantly, is he going to use that? I commend that to him. As far as the costs arising from the conviction are concerned, I would like to hear from the Minister who finally took the fall. Surely I can assume that the Dutch taxpayer was not affected by that? I understand there are problems with the ballot boxes and voting booths on Curaçao. From Schiphol Airport, one or more aircraft go to Curaçao every day. Is it possible that part of the ballot boxes and voting booths will be temporarily lent from the municipality of Amsterdam to Curaçao? Can that offer be made? For our part, too, we must offer the support needed for a democratic process. It is very important that this, especially on Curaçao, can continue unhindered. What we can do for our part, and what we can do to improve, strengthen and make more democratic, must not be forgotten. Support can and must be given. In fact, this can continue to be the case, even if the countries are part of a commonest of independent countries. I'm closing up. The VVD concludes that the Statute is tight and that it is time for the Staff Regulations to be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mrs. Van Tongeren was ahead of me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u4	You're a gentleman! Mrs. Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u5	I'm a lady. Within the Kingdom we recognize the VVD again, because even if the European Court of Human Rights finds a breach, the case will be reduced to a matter of Dutch taxpayers. I would like to hear from the VVD whether and how the content of this judgment is appreciated. It says that if you impose a life sentence and there is a review in the law, you should also have the opportunity to treat, resocialize people and to check whether the longer imprisonment of people serves any purpose. In addition to the cost aspect, does the VVD also have a substantive opinion on this violation of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u6	I have to say that my good colleague, Mr Van Tongeren, has listened selectively, because I have just spoken about the role of the National Council of Ministers. I am referring precisely to the conversation that is being held at the National Council of Ministers. That is where the conversation is held between Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands about the different responsibilities. That's where the conversation takes place. That's where you can tell each other what's important and how you're gonna do it. And yet it is not so much that the Netherlands draws it towards itself in the sense of: then the Netherlands will arrange it. No, you make appointments. With regard to this story, for example, you say to Aruba: listen, you do not meet the requirements for a TBs clinic and there are not enough psychiatrists present to get that right, but I can assume that you will have enough people in four, six or eight months' time. Is there anything else we can get you? Can we offer another psychiatrist? Can we support that? But it is the role of Aruba and Curaçao. The content then arises from the discussion in the National Council of Ministers. I have insisted, precisely to let you know that it is the responsibility of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u7	If I hear correctly, the VVD supports GroenLinks' proposal that I will do so shortly to ask the Minister whether we can, with advice, training, support or practical assistance, ensure that there is no further violation of the European Convention on Human Rights within the Kingdom. If a person is to be sentenced to life imprisonment, we must ensure that there is indeed an opportunity to assess whether that punishment is of any use. You must then ask yourself whether it makes any sense for the next of kin, for society or for that person himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u8	That is stated in Article 38 of the Statute anyway. This indicates that we are providing mutual assistance. I hear the Minister saying it's Article 36. It states that we do so. But that is at the request of the countries. We cannot therefore say here that we are here to help you. So it's a question. That's why it's so important to have the conversation at the National Council of Ministers. The good thing about that is that you do not have to do business on the basis of a statute, but you can say: listen, we are just having a conversation on the basis of the obligations we have under all kinds of treaties; let us now implement them. Then you can just set a deadline and say: I expect you to have a tbs-worthy position on Aruba in six months' time. In the meantime, we can send a psychiatrist there or have people who really need tbs recorded in the Netherlands. That's less positive, I guess. But the offer of support is always done. I don't think it's ever been any different, whether it's Isla, prisons or justice. It is only up to the countries to accept that. If everything is gone and there is no redres is possible anymore........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u9	Mr Bosman was just talking about transforming the Statute into a kind of commonwealth of countries. It now requires the withdrawal of Article 73 of the UN Charter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u10	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u11	Well, it is. In order to do so, we need the consent of the people of the other countries in the Kingdom. Now Mr Bosman has said earlier that he is an optimistic liberal in this matter. How's that optimism coming? Are there enough signals from the overseas territories to call them "old-fashioned" to cancel that article and thus to reach a commonwealth?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u12	I will say no again, because it is not a question of abandoning Article 73, but of giving substance to the decolonisation process. In addition, we have agreed that the countries in that process themselves have control over their independence. That's a process we're all in. We're still working hard on that. I think we should offer a perspective from the Netherlands. In my opinion, with the initiative of the SP and the VVD, we have certainly provided a good perspective, namely that we can do it within a commonwealth. I think, however, that it would be unwise to give up all sorts of treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u13	Then the whole initiative paper is actually very little worth at the moment. Then where's the horizon? When can we expect a commonwealth to come? How many years is that gonna take? We are now having a debate on an individual case, but I get the feeling that this is an attempt to transform it into a commonwealth and to bring it before the stage again. I don't think that's the right position to take here. Let us then have a separate debate on this. What is Mr Bosman's reaction to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u14	Mr De Graaf has also listened selectively. I think it's just an extra step in the escalator ladder. This is crucial for the relations between Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands. It is a nice means between doing nothing or Article 43 (2) the guarantee function. It is a nice step in between, in which the National Council of Ministers talks between the various countries on all kinds of issues that create concerns for the different parties. You can have the conversation about that. The consequence, however, is that autonomy is becoming increasingly tighter and more difficult for the countries. That is the consequence I'm going to attach to it and I'm going to name it here. The fact that I attach to this my idea of a commonwealth is not only intended for here, but certainly also for the discussion in the countries on the other side.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u15	As far as the commonwealth proposal is concerned, we can also talk about the situation in Curaçao, where the current interim government, Pisas/Schotte, is doing everything possible to prevent free and fair elections. How does the VVD view what is happening there at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u16	First of all, I object to the term "Pisas/Schotte." Mr Schotte is not a member of the government. It's the government dick. That's what they call it in Curaçao. There's an interim government. I actually wanted to save this for my second term, but I am extremely proud of what the governor, Mrs George-Wout, has done there. In her role as governor, she has clearly indicated that the elections must continue. That's a very good signal. I think it fits within the institutions that matter. I see a society that is becoming more activist and a church society that is expressing itself. The social partners also voted in favour of elections. The awareness is only growing and I am extremely proud of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u17	That's good, but the governor's under a lot of pressure. The question before us, and I think it is also before the VVD, is: what role should the Kingdom Government play? This is separate from the question of what we want to call that government. I think both Mr Bosman and myself know who is the driving force behind the current interim government. That is indeed Mr Schotte. What role should Minister Plasterk play in the consultation, which is likely to take place on Friday? Should he support the governor? Does he have to take additional measures to secure the election, yes or no? If he does, he will, I suspect, on the basis of that Rule 43 (2). That's what I'd like to give him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u18	The problem is that we do not address the National Council of Ministers here. That is not the role of this Parliament. So that's pretty tricky. We can talk to the Minister of the Interior, but if it is part of the National Council of Ministers, we have no powers here. That's the hard part about the Statute. You'll get that whole discussion about who's in control of what. Who's gonna say what and how are we gonna do that? So, constitutionally, Mr Sjoerdsma is asking something of me that I cannot do. That is also unwise, because the independent position of the National Council of Ministers is a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u19	Is this a long story to say you don't have an opinion on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u20	I thought D66 was the party of state-law good forms? Of course, I have an independent idea and a responsibility of my own. I said in the paper that the elections should continue. I think that's important, too. These elections are essential for a democratic process. I'm so proud of the governor. Let me say that again. We have institutions that work, and we should be proud of that. I'm not going to anticipate the role of the National Council of Ministers. I expect the right decisions to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing a ruling by the European Court of Human Rights on a prisoner in Curaçao. This statement shows how much responsibility we have for the situation in the islands and for human rights, the rule of law and good governance. That goes a lot further than we ever thought. I just want to get back into history. On 10 October 2010, Sint-Maarten and Curaçao became autonomous countries. The SP was against it, the VVD was against it. We felt that the countries were not ready. D66 was in favour, GroenLinks was in favour and the CDA was in favour. And one day after the elections, St.Maarten and Curaçao were taken over by the mob, by the gammafia. And that's why we're in the situation we're in right now. For years Schotte has financially squeezed Curaçao and established a regime, a political culture of fear and intimidation. Partly on the initiative of the SP and the VVD, a large-scale investigation has been launched into the underworld, into the gammafia. Gerrit Schotte, the former Prime Minister, has been sentenced to three years in prison, but instead of being in prison, he is in parliament. How does the Minister feel about that? And Schotte will also participate in the elections on April 28th. His funding from the gambling world is Francesco Corallo, the mafia boss of St.Maarten, who has now been arrested partly thanks to that research on St.Maarten and which must be handed over to Italy, where he is suspected of millions of fraud and bribing high-level politicians in the Berlusconi government at the time. The Fortis Bank is also involved, at the time a nationalized bank. KPMG is also involved, like KPMG is involved in everything that stinks on the islands. I have asked questions about it before, but I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion on it now. Shot belongs in prison, but Schotte wants to be prime minister. He's in the election. On 28 April there will be elections on Curaçao. There is now an interim government, which is a puppet of Schotte and a puppet of the gammafia, and who will do everything in his power to prevent that election, to conduct a coup. I would like to express my full support for this minister in all the activities he intends to do to prevent the coup from being actually carried out by the gammafia. I would also like to give a great deal of support to the governor of Curaçao and to express great appreciation for her, but above all I would like to do so towards the people of Curaçao who are now on the streets and the trade unions, the churches and the parties who speak out because they do not want Curaçao to become a mafia state again. On 28 April there will be elections in Curaçao and that is also a referendum on our Kingdom, a referendum on what the people want with Curaçao. Does the people want Curaçao to be a democratic rule of law or does the people want Curaçao to be a common mafia state again? That is the choice that lies ahead on Curaçao on April 28th. Does the Minister share this view? I know he does, but does he have the guts to say that? Do we also dare to speak to the people of Curaçao in the Netherlands to point out to them the consequences of their vote on 28 April, that a voice at Scotte or Dos Santos is a vote on the gammafia and is a farewell to the Kingdom, a farewell to democracy, to the rule of law? Do we dare to pronounce that here? The SP does that. I hope the Minister will do the same. I hope that GroenLinks will do the same, after saying sorry for 10-10-10 and GroenLinks is also prepared to fight with other parties for the people of Curaçao, for a democratic Curaçao to ensure that Curaçao has a future in our Kingdom. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you. I note, however, that we are having a debate here on Mr Murray, on the statements and so on, but it is now becoming a kind of general reflection on the relationship between the Netherlands and the islands. You are talking about your own text, but I would point out that this debate is now taking place very widely and that everything about the Antilles is now being discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have to correct the chairman. I don't like to do that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u24	If I have to, I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u25	The European Court of Human Rights has delivered a ruling that directly affects the guarantee function, Article 43 (b) of the Statute. That's all I've talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u26	I am not going to interfere in the substance of the matter, but I note that the Minister is shaking a very large no. He knows it and I don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u27	We'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u28	I think I just heard the SP call for interference in democratic elections in another country. However, I would like to come back to the Human Rights Convention. I would also like to know from the SP whether she agrees with GroenLinks that, in the event of a violation of the European Convention, the Netherlands should offer support, assistance or treatment in the Netherlands, if necessary, so that we all as kingdoms may be able to assume that we feel a shared responsibility if we no longer violate the European Convention on Human Rights. How does the SP feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u29	Yeah, we should. All the help we can offer, we have to offer. Only, if we help this government, which is a mafia puppet, that won't make any sense. I also have to say to GroenLinks that I haven't heard any excuses. I haven't heard any excuses from GroenLinks about the situation in which that party dumped the people in Curaçao at 10-10-10. GroenLinks has made it happen that the beautiful island of Curaçao with those beautiful people has been handed over to the gokmafia. The SP and the VVD try to fight that every day. GroenLinks doesn't do that. I would very much like us to help everyone in Curaçao who is of good will and make sure that people who are in prison... Let us first ensure that prisons have a wall at all, for example on Saint Martin. And if the prisons have a wall, let us ensure that people get a perspective, learn a profession and can return to society. We all do, but may I support GroenLinks and may I ask GroenLinks to finally speak out, to finally fight against the gammafia with the SP and the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u30	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u31	And not to give in to the fact that these islands are in danger of sinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u32	May I point out to the SP that the elections have already been held? So such a very long run with election rhetoric and an attack on GroenLinks is not very effective at the moment. We are standing here to discuss a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. I am pleased to note that the SP also supports my proposal. I would like to call on the Minister, as we have already done on other subjects, to give active support so that there are no lifelong punishments on the islands that have no prospect of treatment or any return to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u33	The elections aren't over. They're gonna start. On 28 April there will be elections on the future of Curaçao, the future of the rule of law and the future of the Kingdom. I would like to offer all the help I can to good will drivers on the islands. All the help. The SP has always done that. That's what I've been doing as a spokesperson for ten years. Just helping the underworld, helping a government that's a mafia puppet... I seriously wonder if that makes any sense. That proposal also shows the naivety of GroenLinks, looking away from GroenLinks. That is an attitude that has got us into trouble and has got the kingdom into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u34	Madame van Tongeren, and then we stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u35	I believe that others are entitled to have an opinion when a country has democratic elections, but we do not have a debate on this. The debate is about a violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. I heard an answer to that. What about the rest? Well, I don't understand why we still hear so much rhetoric after the Dutch elections that you would expect in campaign time. So I do not understand how this is going to be a solution for a better situation in Curaçao or for the people who have been punished there for life, who we have in the Netherlands too, and who have no idea of returning to society and effective treatment if there is no point in keeping these people locked up any longer. Perhaps breakfast has gone wrong this morning, but in general I do not see the point at this time of any further attacks on GroenLinks in connection with the proper enforcement of the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u36	Yeah, and that's the big problem. Why is Curaçao in this trouble? Why is Saint Martin in this trouble? This has to do with 10-10-10, when we made these countries autonomous and then the countries were taken over acutely by the Mafia. As long as parties in this Chamber do not want to see it, the problems cannot be solved. As long as GroenLinks hasn't apologized to the people on Curaçao, I'd sing a little lower if I was GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you. I call Mrs Van Tongeren, with whatever tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u38	Mr. Chairman. The European Convention on Human Rights has been violated within the Kingdom. That is a difficult issue with regard to GroenLinks. When in 1870 the death penalty was abolished by then Minister of Justice Mudderman, this liberal said that with a bleeding heart he introduced life imprisonment into the Code of Criminal Law. In the Netherlands, there is still no effective revision for people who have been punished for life. In Curaçao, since 2010, the new Criminal Code has had a TBs option and a country decision that allows for forced medical treatment. As far as I know, that has not yet entered into force, so that is my first question to the Minister. The European Court says: life priests should be allowed to rehabilitate themselves. At some point there should, after treatment and after quite a few years... Lifelong imprisonment is only possible after a very gruesome crime. I do not want to deny that horror, nor do I want to deny that there must be a very firm punishment on it. At some point, however, there is no point. In order to assess whether someone can return to society after 20, 25 or 30 years, there must be effective treatment as well as a possibility of testing. In the Netherlands we do not even have the scheme, so we will not get there. There are no such possibilities on the islands. As I said in the interruptions, I would like to hear from the Minister how we can offer more effective support. Are the islands open to considering whether long-term punishments can return after detention? What are the possibilities there? It is not a question of GroenLinks in this debate, who will pay for the consequences and costs of the Murray judgment. We are concerned with ensuring the effective implementation of the European Convention on Human Rights, to which all the countries of the Kingdom are obliged. How does the Minister view this? What steps can he take from his position to ensure that the Kingdom is not in breach of that treaty? I assume that the Minister with GroenLinks shares that it is one of the foundations of a democratic rule of law to do so. Yeah, it's true what the SP says. Some countries are further in building a democratic rule of law as we see it. But either you accept that another country has a democracy that is under construction and you contribute to it, or you have to come up with another effective solution. I have not yet heard the SP say that it should all be one big Netherlands again and that the Antilles should be drawn back to the Netherlands. I do not think that the people on the islands and in the independent countries are waiting for this either. There's a lot of sputtering from the SP. Okay, but then come up with an effective solution and let me know how it should be. I have one final point, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u39	Well, you challenged Mr. Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u40	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u41	Yeah, you'd almost say it. So he has to make some noise again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u42	That's not very nice, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u43	No, but you know I mean everything nice in your direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u44	The SP and the VVD do have an alternative, where GroenLinks doesn't have one. GroenLinks dumped the islands in the abyss on 10-10-10 and had them taken over by the mafia, something that GroenLinks still hasn't apologized for. The SP and the VVD have put forward a proposal for a commonwealth construction as a starting point for discussion. We did that years ago. I find it a little disturbing that GroenLinks is asking for an alternative here, which we laid down years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u45	Mrs Van Tongeren, you can move on to your next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u46	Yes, because I believe that this is a complete repetition of moves and does not help at all in the effective implementation of this type of treaties or, for example, the Climate Convention. The European Convention on Human Rights also contains a clause on undisturbed family life and the environment. I am referring to the Isla. There is also a good chance that Curaçao is in violation. I would also like to hear from the Minister what we are doing to provide support, assistance and advice. At what point does the Minister intend to use the guarantee function to ensure that the Kingdom is not once again condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for violating the Convention? Does the Minister share with me the great importance that, not only on this point, but on all other aspects of the human rights treaty throughout the Kingdom, we are ensuring that we adhere to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u47	A little fine grinding: Mrs Van Tongeren talks about calling in the guarantee function. Then there's no more redres. The nice thing about this statement is that a conversation at the National Council of Ministers becomes an extra step in the escalation ladder. Then the guarantee function is not invoked, but agreements are made between themselves. Does Mrs Van Tongeren agree with me or does she say: no, it should always be the guarantee function?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u48	No, I'm fine with having a conversation about that, but the problem about the Isla is not solved with a conversation at the National Council of Ministers. There will have to be firmer intervention. We have had these debates separately. The historical moral responsibility of the Netherlands for the major pollution in Curaçao and the major problems with air quality and with the quality of life in those neighbourhoods gives urgency. Legally it may not be entirely tough, but there is a moral responsibility of the Netherlands. I think that needs something more than a meeting at the National Council of Ministers. I am not against any conversation in the National Council of Ministers, but if you find time and time again, year in, year out that the pollution in Curaçao assumes such enormous proportions that not one, not ten, not a hundred people, but a lot of people are hit hard in their vitality, then at some point there must be firmer intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u49	This is precisely between doing nothing and Article 43 (2). I do not know how things are going in the National Council of Ministers, but I can imagine that agreements will be made between the countries. They say, "Oh, things are not going well, I expect you to meet your own emission standards and criteria in six months' time, and I would like a report on that. You can make arrangements about that. It's not so much a conversation as an appointment. Again, I don't know what's going on in the National Council of Ministers, and I can't force anything about that either. It's my image that I'm trying to lay down with the minister. If we share something, the National Council of Ministers can make firm agreements with clear dates and clear targets.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u50	Theoretically that would be a nice approach, but if you look at the enormous pollution and damage caused by large oil and gas companies like Shell, you will see the same problem in Groningen and Curaçao. Then you see pretty desperate people who go to trial year in, year out. Then you see endless talk. Then you see decisions and reports, but people are left with the same problem. If we in the Netherlands do not even manage to find a decent solution for the Groningen people, how can we think that with a discussion at the National Council of Ministers suddenly there will be a decent solution for the people of Curaçao, who live under that yoke of Shell's inheritance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u51	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u52	That means it's a country matter, and we don't have any control over it. When Mrs Van Tongeren says that Rule 43 (2) must be applied, there must be absolutely no possibility of redres. That means we can wait a long time. This means that all legal and political options in Curaçao must be exploited before Mrs Van Tongeren can speak about Rule 43 (2). What Mrs Van Tongeren offers is to wait even longer because it is a matter of country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u53	Then Mr Bosman did not listen carefully in this case. I said, I have no objection to a conversation. However, I do not have the illusion that a discussion at the National Council of Ministers is going to solve the major pollution caused by Shell on the island and the persistently high environmental pollution burden on the population there. I would like to see Shell's historical responsibility and see that it really does something about it. I would also very much like us to do everything we can to comply with both the Paris Convention on Climate Change and the Convention on Human Rights and the normal viability of these people. Make sure you have a conversation. I'm fine with it. If that helps, I'm very happy. I'm not so confident that that's gonna be enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u54	I agree with Mrs Van Tongeren on this. The SP has been working on that Isla refinery since 2003. A lot of motions have been passed in this Chamber. We have sent ministers and secretaries of state many times. We sent a lot of money. We sent a lot of people. We sent a lot of knowledge, but nothing ever changed. Money's gone into pockets where it doesn't belong. People have been made impossible to live. How does Mrs Van Tongeren see that intervention? I very much agree with her that people are now dying under the smoke of the Isla refinery and that we must do something about it. The essence of this debate is: what should we do and how should we do it? Then how does GroenLinks see that intervention at the Isla refinery?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u55	Our Dutch government and Shell are quite intertwined. I would therefore like the Dutch Government to use all informal and formal influence to make Shell recognise that there is a historic responsibility there. From what I understand, it's hardly legally possible to force Shell to clean up that whole tar lake, for example. Mr Van Raak will also agree with me that if the Netherlands seriously wants to implement the Paris Convention on Climate Change, we must help everyone within the Kingdom and jointly force outside the Kingdom to abandon fossil. That starts with ourselves, too. So we will have to do the same in the Netherlands. With that pressure you have a moral ID to put pressure on other countries and then at some point... Start the conversation and see how far you get. I am afraid that the oil and gas companies will eventually only be stopped by major court cases and that Shell and Exxon, the third and fourth largest company in the world, will not attract very much from the Netherlands unless there is a judiciary behind it. So perhaps it should come to a condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u56	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u57	This was already the situation 15 years ago with the same calls from the SP. Now GroenLinks does the same. Fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u58	Well, Mrs Van Gent has been contributing a lot to that all along.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u59	Mr Van Raak has the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see a big problem, because it's been paid off. The Dutch government has allowed Shell to buy off these hundreds of millions, probably billions of euros of pollution for a few guilders. This then saddled the people of Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u61	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u62	How can we solve that? Mrs Van Tongeren says: then we must ask the government to talk to Shell. But we've been doing that for 15 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u63	If I had an effective solution to climate change and to combat oil and gas companies in the world, I might have been in a different place than here. I don't have that effective solution, but you know it. In GroenLinks I am really working on it day in, day out and we are not able, even with the support of the SP, to find even within the Netherlands something that looks like an effective solution to the problem in Groningen. It is an almost insoluble problem, but we will have to step by step together to tackle every millimeter of profit that we can get in relation to those companies. What good is it for people today to keep saying, "I found ten years ago, I found 15 years ago"? What good is it to people today that you or a colleague of mine worked hard 15 years ago? We're still gonna have to do it together today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u64	It is not enough to do so, because we have been doing so for 15 years. This debate is about relations within the Kingdom. What are the responsibilities of the Netherlands and how can the Netherlands fulfil them? The SP and the VVD have come up with a plan for that: a commonwealth. There's a change of plan, too. I warmly welcome any better plan. But there must be thought, also from GroenLinks, I think, about the relations within the Kingdom and the question of how we can fulfil these responsibilities. I am afraid that once again calling for a discussion is not enough for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u65	On the one hand, the SP says: I have a plan with the VVD. The VVD says on the other hand: take the intermediate step of that conversation. Then I say: I have no objection to that. Maybe you both need to discuss what you have in that plan together. I'm taking over the VVD's handler. I have no objection to a conversation. Any conversation that can help, it helps. Then we have two separate issues: on the one hand, the total fight against all oil and gas companies in the world within the Netherlands, within the Kingdom and within Europe and, on the other hand, the violations of the human rights treaty. If we bring it all in now, it'll be completely inconspicuous. My call here is: give practical help wherever possible and continue to do so, even if you do not have the result yet. Use informal influence within the large oil and gas companies and ensure that you implement the Paris Treaty as much as possible within the Netherlands and within the Kingdom, wherever possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u66	We are going to see whether Mr Sjoerdsma is also restricting himself to the subject or going to war on a wider scale. Are you not forgetting the situation in Groningen, Mr Sjoerdsma?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u67	Mr. Chairman. I will largely stick to the case that is on the agenda, but I wanted, with your permission, to devote a few rules to the situation that has arisen in Curaçao. I see you smilingly approve of that; I am pleased. I have a great deal of concern, which other Members of Parliament have just mentioned, about the fact that the interim government of Pisa wants to remain in power and to cancel new elections. I believe that the governor has taken appropriate measures there, and I believe that previous speakers have said so explicitly. The question is how we continue to deal with it. That question is probably ahead of the National Council of Ministers tomorrow too; that is what I suspect. I would like to ask this Minister what exactly is the situation; in my view it is possible, I am simply asking the Dutch part of the National Council of Ministers. I fully endorse Mr Bosman's statement that it is a pity that there is not yet a national parliament. But we can just ask questions here, and we should. Can the Minister confirm that the governor will be supported there? Then I go back to the case, the judgment of the European Court, in which the Kingdom of the Netherlands was convicted of violating human rights. In Murray's case, the Court ruled that a prisoner was not properly dealt with and sentenced to life imprisonment. On Curaçao Murray did not receive sufficient psychiatric guidance and therefore there was no prospect of his release. In essence, this violation of human rights affects not only Curaçao. Also in the Netherlands the execution of life imprisonment is not in order. Here too, there is no prospect of release. The Netherlands is also in breach of Article 3 of the ECHR. I am therefore curious whether and, if so, how this condemnation has been discussed by the European Court in the Kingdom Government. What can the Minister tell us about that? In the meantime, Curaçao hasn't been idle. A legal TBs scheme has been added, and after 20 years of life, the judge will assess whether the life sentence should continue. This is a legislation that the Netherlands does not yet have. On paper, therefore, Curaçao is making important progress. But in practice we hardly see any facilities. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Curaçao therefore warns that a conviction with tbs cannot simply be carried out because the facilities are lacking. Then that human rights violation has not yet been resolved either. I would like to ask the Minister: can he indicate what Curaçao is doing to make psychological aid and tbs actually possible in practice? Is cooperation sought within the Kingdom, for example, to set up a TBS facility? And is there any mention within the Kingdom Government of improving human rights in general? Finally, the costs of the proceedings; Mr Bosman also briefly referred to this point. There seems to be a misunderstanding in this respect that the country of the Netherlands would have to pay these costs. It seems to D66 that it should not only be in this particular case, but in general, that that country which has actually been convicted within the Kingdom will have to pay the costs. Is that also the formal line within the Kingdom Government? Have the court fees been paid by Curaçao?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u68	Mr. Chairman. I have listened carefully to my colleagues. It was about the Isla refinery, the gambling syndicates, the voting booths and the shouting horn over 10-10-10, while we are now in 2017. I will deal with the matter myself and I will confine myself to the matter. Finally, I will perhaps ask the Minister for a brief explanation of the situation in Curaçao in the context of the elections. On 26 April 2016, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the Kingdom has infringed Article 3 of the ECHR. In short, a man sentenced to life imprisonment did not receive the treatment he needed in the Curaçao and Aruba prisons. The Court therefore finds that there has been inhuman treatment. Pursuant to Article 43 (1) of the Statute, the care of human rights belongs to the autonomy of the countries, in this case Aruba and Curaçao. Only the safeguarding of these rights is a matter of kingdom pursuant to paragraph 2. The violation of a fundamental right must in principle be rectified by the country concerned. Are human rights regularly on the agenda of talks between countries? The CDA Group supports the government's line that the Kingdom can only intervene when there is a structural situation in which the system is no longer functioning properly. That is why we ask the Minister whether the guarantee function is currently set up in such a way that problems are recognised in good time. How does the Minister keep his finger on the wrist? How does the Minister assess whether there is an incident or structural problem? And how does the Minister inform the Chamber about this in structural terms? We do not see much of that. In the opinion of the CDA Group, there is no question in the Murray case that the Kingdom should intervene in the Curaçao and Aruba prisons. That is where the countries of Curaçao and Aruba are at. That is why we would like to know from the Minister what steps have been taken since the statements of the ECHR. However, the CDA Group notes that there is a discussion on whether the Kingdom should become more active in its human rights safeguards function. What is the government's status in this discussion? Does the government recognise that, in general terms, the human rights treaties require more and more states of the treaty and therefore of the Kingdom? How does the government assess this development? Finally. Can the Minister give a brief explanation of the situation in Curaçao in the context of the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u69	Mr Amhaouch asked the government to intervene more proactively in human rights situations. I am very curious how the CDA sees it, because in principle this is a matter of country, according to Article 43 (1). How does the CDA see that intervention?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u70	As a result of Article 43 (2), the CDA has clearly asked how the Minister can better implement the guarantee function. Is he holding the finger on the wrist? Are these matters on the table during talks with the countries of Aruba and Curaçao? That's what we're saying. The countries have individual responsibilities, but under Article 43 (2), the Kingdom is responsible for the guarantee function. That is what our questions are addressed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u71	Maybe I'm wrong, but I think Article 43 is about the guarantee function.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u72	Paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u73	No, paragraph 1 is about the country's own guarantee and paragraph 2 applies only if paragraph 1 is not filled in by the country. The whole article is therefore about the guarantee function, but the responsibility lies with the countries themselves until there is no redres.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u74	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u75	That is why I am a little surprised that the CDA apparently says: it must be that guarantee function. There is a bit narrowing about my remarks on honking horn and all kinds of other things, but you can also use this statement as a step in the escalation ladder. You just need to make appointments at the National Council of Ministers. Mr Amhaouch seems to want to wait for Article 43, but you can also name this earlier, on the basis of this statement. How does Mr Amhaouch see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u76	That is the essence of our questions. If you as a Kingdom are responsible for the guarantee function, you must have taken care of that guarantee function. Then you're not just gonna act on incidents and start the conversation. Our question to the Minister is how this guarantee function has been set up and how you can act proactively on this and not just on the basis of incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u77	My question to the CDA is how the CDA sees it. Apparently, the CDA has no idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u78	We attach great importance to human rights in the Kingdom. This applies to Aruba, Curaçao, Sint-Maarten and the Netherlands. We therefore need to fill in this guarantee function fully and preferably proactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u79	Thank you. Mr Amhaouch was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. The Minister is able to answer immediately. The floor is therefore for him to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u80	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to appear for the first time in the Chamber in its new composition. I would like to congratulate all elected members on their election. I notice that a new room comes with a new sound. A lot of things have been dealt with. It has already been pointed out that, strictly speaking, the subject of the debate was the case of Murray, which was decided by the European Court of Justice. Actually, the reason for the first applicant of the debate was not so much the case itself, but the question whether the ruling has implications for the state relations in the Kingdom. It has also been asked about the case itself and on that occasion. I will answer the questions on those two aspects. Due to the topicality, very acute this week in Curaçao, it has been asked about the administrative situation in Curaçao. I can imagine. I note that questions have also been asked about the Isla refinery, about Shell in Groningen and about the Paris climate agreements. I will try to deal with these issues as well in decreasing intensity, otherwise I will go very far beyond my portfolio. Anyway, I'm gonna get to that. The main topic on the agenda for today is the case Murray. For the people who watch at home, it might be good to summarize in two sentences what it is about. Murray, who has now died in captivity, was sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder of a 6-year-old girl, a serious crime. Apparently, as the Court has held, he did not have sufficient access to psychiatric support during the time of imprisonment, which partly took place in Aruba and partly in Curaçao. He could only have been released if he had been treated extensively. Because he was not given that support, he lacked the prospect of a possible release during his life. On the basis of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Court considers it inhuman when a person is imprisoned without any prospect of release at any time in his life. Because that view has been taken from him by not providing that psychiatric support, there is an overrun of Article 3 of the Convention. The reason that this situation has been reported to the Kingdom Government is that the state authority is always called upon when there is an infringement of the Convention on Human Rights. The state body is the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Then it does not matter who within the Kingdom of the Netherlands has caused that rule to be exceeded; it is up to the Kingdom of the Netherlands to act on it. The municipal administration of a municipality somewhere in the country could also cause this overrun, but the Kingdom of the Netherlands is then called upon to do so. In this case, it is a question of exceeding human rights which, according to Article 43 (1) of the Statute, is a responsibility of the countries of the Kingdom, as has also been pointed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u81	I have the impression that the Minister is still preparing an introduction. Why don't we let him finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u82	There's been a major mistake here. A comparison is made here between the municipalities of the Netherlands, which we control, and the role of autonomous countries. You shouldn't get that mixed up. There is a substantial difference. If the mistake is made in an autonomous country, it is many times more difficult than when it is done in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u83	The Minister responds briefly and then continues his introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u84	The only point illustrated by this is that when the state authority, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is addressed, this does not yet mean that there is no investment or indication of who caused the exceedance within that Kingdom of the Netherlands and who is responsible for lifting or preventing such exceedance. Insofar as it is not a helpful comparison for Mr Bosman, he can ignore it, because I will come to the question of what happens next. First of all, let me say that it is not a novelty that the Kingdom is being called upon to commit a human rights breach committed by a country of the Kingdom. This has happened before, for example, with the prison in Aruba in the Matthew case. There was a conviction in 2005 for the infringement of Article 3 of the ECHR. By the way, the prison in question was also rebuilt at the time, which meant that the overrun had been lifted on that point. So it's not new. That's the way it happens. What then is the act of the Kingdom if such an exceedance is found? Then the country responsible for that overrun must resolve it. That is also the case here. It is therefore not the case that the Kingdom assumes that responsibility, in this case for the treatment or psychiatric treatment of long-term punishments in Curaçao or Aruba. The ruling does not therefore make the Netherlands extra responsible and does not change internal relations within the Kingdom. What needs to be done is to act on it. The Kingdom shall be bound by the judgment. The measures to be taken shall consist of individual measures to ensure that the infringement is remedied. In this case, the Kingdom Government submitted its action plan to the Committee on 31 January 2017 after obtaining a delay to obtain further information from Aruba and Curaçao. The measures set out in the Action Plan should ultimately lead to an action report, closing the monitoring of the Committee. Moreover, according to the available information, there are currently no life sentences in Aruba and Curaçao that require psychiatric care. So topically it doesn't occur. But, of course, it could happen again at some point. It is therefore important that measures have been taken by Aruba and Curaçao. A working group, chaired by the Attorney General of the two countries, has been set up to examine the possibility of setting up a single TBs facility on one of the islands to facilitate better treatment. In the Sentro di Detenshon i Korekshon Korsou, the detainees in Curaçao already have full access to comprehensive treatment by a psychologist or psychiatrist. It is true that a country regulation will be drawn up, and Mrs Van Tongeren has asked for care in this establishment. In addition, a specific place will be designated for the care facility in question. This is expected to be submitted to Parliament in December of this year. In Aruba, prisoners in the Correktie Instituut Aruba already have access to a psychologist and a psychiatrist. I will leave it at that, but the conclusion is that steps have been taken by the countries, and so it should be, to ensure that there will not be another such breach of Article 3 of the Convention on Human Rights. This will also be reported to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u85	Compliments for that. This is an impressive list, with which I am truly very pleased. But the minister also knows the prisons in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. Is he not afraid with me that what he now calls TBs clinics, psychic support and facilities is very much a paper reality? When we look at the current situation, especially in Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba, we see that that is still very far away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u86	Speaking in general terms, I think Mr Van Raak is right that there is still a lot of work to be done. I notice every time I am here and we discuss this subject, that it lives with many people: compare life in prisons there with life for people who are not broad. Is the improvement of these prisons the top priority? There is quite a strong sense of popularity that feels that there are quite a few other problems to solve. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that prisons in the Kingdom have to meet the human rights requirements. The government is therefore continuing to raise this issue; we are doing a number of things about it. In recent years, funds from the FDA have been made available to Aruba. That money was used for the prisons there. But it remains a point of attention. Moreover, it remains a national responsibility to do so. The governments of these countries have to ensure that decent conditions prevail within prisons.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u87	That is exactly what my question is about: the responsibility of our country within the Kingdom. That is also the subject of the debate. We are internationally addressed to this particular issue, and action is taken on this particular problem. While, when we both look at those prisons, we see that there are infinitely many things that are not right and that we could and should be addressed internationally. These seem to be constant incidents: we are dealing with this one case; then there are all kinds of agreements, which appear to exist mainly on paper. But isn't there a much bigger problem, namely that the situation in prisons, seen with a state of law, is unacceptable? Then the Minister can say that this is a matter of country, but it has been since 1954. That's just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u88	There are a number of things going on right now. I have already said that there are situations in prisons that are not in line from a human rights point of view. That point must be taken up by the countries. That's not a one-time renovation, it has to do with the number of people in a cell et cetera. This must continue to be the focus of attention. Des Pudels Kern, however, is that this is a national responsibility. The reason for this debate is that the Kingdom is being called upon to exceed human rights by a country from the Kingdom. Does that change the state relations in the Kingdom? No. That has happened before and it will continue to happen. It is possible for a country in the Kingdom to exceed human rights, to which the Kingdom is addressed, because that is the only contactable authority. It is the responsibility of the Government of the Kingdom to indicate that that country in the Kingdom responsible for upholding human rights is also acting on it. That's where the kingdom's job ends. Period. This is without prejudice to the fact that if, in the case of tasks which are the concern of the countries under Article 43 (1) of the Statute, I am thinking of human rights, legal certainty and sound administration, there is no question of taking up that responsibility, there can be a situation in which the second paragraph of that Article enters into force, which requires the Kingdom Government to ensure that. That is only true when there is no national redemption. I have to say that there is that nationwide redeploy on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u89	But if we're aware of an offense, we have to act on it, right? Then it can't be that we wait until there's a judge's ruling and then we say, "That's what we're gonna do." Then we can also start the conversation in advance, proactively in the National Council of Ministers and say: listen, we all know that it is not true and that the reports are obvious, especially those about St.Maarten. Then it must be said at that level: listen boys, everything nice and nice, but you have six months to arrange it; this is the deadline and come up with a plan. Otherwise, we will eventually be addressed by the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u90	There's a lot going on right now. The National Council of Ministers takes decisions and is therefore not the place where governments of countries in the Kingdom address each other on matters that are signalled together. So the National Council of Ministers is not the place where this is discussed. In the concerns about the integrity of Sint-Maarten, the government of Sint-Maarten and the Dutch minister of V and J, sometimes also in consultation with the Minister of Kingdom Relations, have intensive discussions with each other about whether things are going well and whether we can contribute to it. This is done with the intention, the hope and the intention to ensure, in the end on the basis of a common agreement, that it will be okay there. Only when it does not work out at all and there is no redres, could it at any time become a Kingdom matter and then there are indeed decisions to be made in the National Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u91	I believe that this decision could be made earlier on the basis of the possibility of liability. Every time, whether it's Murray versus the Netherlands or an eleven State members from Curaçao versus the Netherlands, we're put in the suspect bank based on behavior from others. If we know and recognise that, then it is high time we started reacting proactively. If you can't do it on the National Council of Ministers, I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's gonna do it. I find it impossible for us to enter the suspect bench because countries do not follow the rules. The account is then placed with the Netherlands and the picture is also for the rest of the world that it is anyone versus the Netherlands and that the conviction stands. That sucks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u92	Mr Bosman wants a different state-of-the-art connection. He has previously put forward, together with the SP, a proposal to get rid of the interrelationships that exist today and to create a commonwealth, in which each country can decide for itself in which areas one wants to cooperate and not cooperate with other countries. I can only say that the Rutte II cabinet did not accept that proposal. In this cabinet period, therefore, the government did not act on it. As a outgoing minister, it is not up to me to determine whether a future cabinet or coalition will have the plan to act on it. I would point out, however, that in such a more voluntary form of cooperation, the direction will rather be that countries see even less reason to look at each other in the kitchen and say from their own position: you will do so. That seems to me to be the intended effect. There is therefore a certain tension between this intended effect on the one hand and the question of why the Kingdom is not acting even more actively on the other. In my opinion, however, there has been an act, as is the case under current state law. They also asked for the bill. This amount amounts to €27,500 and is settled according to a distribution key with the authorities of the countries concerned, Aruba and Curaçao. Aruba has now paid its share, €15,000. Curaçao still has to pay its share, €12,500. This has also been clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u93	My question was about the current situation, about the responsibility within this Statute. We all know that's painful and that there are responsibilities. The Minister now states: we wait quietly until a conviction arrives and then we act. I don't think that's wise. So I think my question is a very real question. If we were in a commonwealth of independent countries, I would not have asked this question. However, we have a statute, which this cabinet fully supports and takes responsibility for. That is fine with me, but I would also like to know how this minister, this cabinet, is proactively working to prevent us from being convicted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u94	I have just described this in detail. I can do that in other areas too. We are trying, in good cooperation, to strengthen the chain of law in countries. We know the judicial quadruple consultation, in which the Dutch minister of V and J, together with colleagues from other countries, tries to improve the whole process of justice. This is partly for crime-fighting, but also partly to ensure that the role of the public prosecutor is strengthened and prisons improved. We are constantly assisting each other in this. I am surprised that the impression is that there would be a difference of opinion on this, because of course we do so all the time. This also applies to other areas. As regards the question about the Isla refinery, I will explain later what we are doing to assist each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u95	I'm gonna go through where Mr. Bosman left off. I agree that, if we are responsible for the guarantee function, we must organise it in a structural manner and act proactively. The Minister adds a number of examples on justice and corruption. One of our questions was how often the Minister discusses the human rights situation with the countries. The Murray case is a human rights case. Is there regular discussion of human rights at the table with the other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u96	Yeah, we do that all the time. Over the last few years, we have focused our discussions on children's rights. Mr Amhaouch knows that too. An initiative proposal from the Chamber has been tabled for this. Additional resources have also been used for this, in which, together with the Caribbean countries of the Netherlands and Bonaire, Saba and Statia, we have set up a task force to actively act on children's rights. However, we do so on other occasions. However, I would like to correct the misunderstanding that a little lingering, namely that the fact that the Kingdom is called upon to exceed human rights, would be one-on-one linked to that guarantee function. That is not the case. Even if the Kingdom were a union of four countries in a commonwealth with a head of state, namely the King, an international organization would say: that treaty was concluded by the Kingdom of the Netherlands, so we appeal to you on that overrun. Subsequently, depending on the establishment, the Member State or the country responsible, it is necessary to ensure that that overrun is removed. But again, that's not my construction. This whole process is now under way, without any need to resort to Article 43 (2) in which the Kingdom guarantees the national task of ensuring human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u97	I'll come back to my question anyway. The Minister says that it is being discussed and cites the example of children's rights. Can the Minister promise that there will be structural consultations on human rights situations? If not, can he promise that this structural consultation will take place? Now he's just acting on incidents.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u98	I can say that's what's there. I also mentioned the judicial quadruple dialogue, which is actually the most obvious table. I can assure the Chamber that, if there are any human rights issues, they will come to the table there. I therefore believe that I have answered the specific questions relating to the Murray case. There have been substantive questions to which I have answered: not offering the prospect of release is seen as torture or inhumane treatment under Article 3 of the ECHR. An action plan has been set up. In the case of interruption, we have just spoken about what that means for the state relations. However, I can well imagine that in this turbulent week the situation in Curaçao has been asked. Let me say a few things about that. There are constant contacts with Curaçao and the Dutch representation in Curaçao. You may know the representative Henk Bronze. He is extremely active with his staff to inform me and others here. The governor also has our full support and she is fully appreciated for her attitude. That's what I've been showing you. At least, it was implicit in the reply of the National Council of Ministers to the letter the States of Curaçao sent us. Let me briefly summarise the conclusion. What happened? The Koeiman government has fallen because two of the members on whom the coalition supported have moved to the opposition side. That may happen, but the state relationship implies that the government will then have the right to dissolve the States and issue new elections. The government did. The elections were held on 28 April. That country's decision has been signed by the governor and is therefore being implemented. That's what it says. So there can be no misunderstanding about that either. And yes, an interim government has been formed since then. There is no other reason for me to express an opinion on this from box K here. That cannot, however, interfere with the legal decision taken to hold those elections by 28 April. It would be out of law. That view stands for it. To be honest, I can't say much more about it now either. I can confirm that it would be mysterious if I did not do so because there will be a Council of Ministers tomorrow, but I must stick to the rule that even its agenda is confidential. I therefore hope that the Chamber will understand that I cannot anticipate what is being discussed, let alone go into the substance of the matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u99	I still have a question about the trial. A number of Member States have gone to the European Court of Human Rights, precisely to delay the elections. The government has said: we will continue anyway. Is that trial still going on? Did the Minister get any news about that? Has the Minister been informed of this in advance? The Netherlands is being sued. Has the government been given the signal in advance that they are going to sue the Netherlands for a particular case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u100	That last one. Almost everything that happens there is found almost immediately in the media. I do not dare to say with certainty whether the moment we heard it through the official channels preceded or followed its becoming known. I'm gonna have to leave that in the middle. But I'm sure it didn't matter much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u101	But that trial at the European Court of Justice, is it still or is it being withdrawn? Does the Minister know anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u102	I do have some information, but I don't know how public it is. So I'm just gonna leave that in the middle. It is a matter which has been brought before the government there with the intention of allowing it to have a suspensive effect. Let me put it this way: for the time being, I have no reason to think that this suspensive effect is really being put into effect there. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u103	Looks like the election's gonna go ahead. That's very important. Thanks to the minister and to the governor. However, we also see that the interim government, a puppet government of the underworld, is trying to pressure civil servants and other people not to let the elections go through, not to let them organize, at least to frustrate them. Does the Kingdom still have a role to play in ensuring that these elections can take place in peace? Does the Minister also see opportunities to prevent people, journalists, officials and voters from being put under pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u104	First of all, I would like to add a few words to my previous reply, because the Chamber already noticed that I was in dubio for a moment whether or not the view of the Court in Strasbourg would be known. But indeed yesterday the Registrar of the European Court rejected the application, because the outside is the scope of rule number 39. A provisional measure shall only be applied if there is an imminent and serious risk of irreparable damage. That is not the case in this case. So I can confirm that. The question was whether I still have concerns about the trajectory. However, I would like to confine myself to the view I have expressed earlier, namely that there should not, in any way, be any interference with the process of free elections, because they would then go beyond the rule of law. That is what follows from the legal interpretation of the Statute and of the Curaçao Land Regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u105	I understand that, but we're here in The Hague. The people are there on Curaçao. We're already getting sounds of harassment from civil servants. Unfortunately, harassment of journalists is already on the agenda. The bribery of voters has also proved to be a major problem in the last elections. Does the Minister see, does the Kingdom still see a role for itself to ensure that the elections in Curaçao are conducted fairly and properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u106	We can provide support in this regard. A sympathetic suggestion was also made about ballot boxes. When asked, we will see what we can do, but that is the ratio. It has to be done from the land, of course. In the area of elections, Curaçao is truly an autonomous country which itself is responsible for organising fair elections. I trust that this responsibility will be fulfilled in the same way. That's all I want to say right now. Mr Van Raak also discussed in detail his appreciation of a number of politicians there. He'll understand I'm staying away from that. I can only say that if someone were irrevocably convicted, it could be part of the sentence. If there is a preliminary ruling that a person is denied the right to stand as a candidate, it can of course have consequences for a person's role in politics if the judgment becomes irrevocable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u107	Of course, we have the problem that elections must now be organised on an island with a government that does not want that election and does everything possible to prevent it. Does the Minister see that dilemma? And again, is it not the responsibility and role of the Kingdom, also because of its guarantee function, good governance, human rights and the rule of law, to ensure that those elections cannot be frustrated by this government at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u108	We can send observers if they are asked to do so and otherwise contribute to fair elections, but it is really the responsibility of the country of Curaçao, which also applies to the other countries of the Kingdom, to organise fair elections. I'm not going to speculate on what I would do if the country didn't. I have made it quite clear that these elections are legitimate, that they will take place on 28 April and that attempts to interfere with them would lead to an overrun of the rule of law. Mr. Chairman. I think I have all answered the remaining points as far as they are concerned. Then indeed the point of the Isla refinery remains. I understand the bridge to that subject. We have dealt with this in many ways over the past period. We have also had a lot of debates about it. I can indeed confirm that Mrs Van Gent put that issue at the top of the agenda years ago. This has led, among other things, to a number of specialists from the Netherlands being made available to Curaçao during the last period, at the request of Curaçao, both in the area of Hinderwetlicensing and in the field of technical aspects, because the picture was that the Hinderwet was regularly exceeded. That was not just the image; that was also a fact. So we are constantly in the process of supporting the country of Curaçao. As Mr Bosman said, this supporting role stems from Article 36 of the Statute: the countries stand by each other. Of course, you can go back in history and see what deal Shell made at the time, but I think that for us, as we are now sitting here, is water under the bridge. Here's the situation. There's a refinery there that brings with it a lot of smell, contamination and unhealthy. It is the government's responsibility to do something about it. On the one hand, I understand perfectly well that this is not easy, because it is expensive to do so and Curaçao is not a rich country. On the other hand, however, we do go very deeply into the matter in....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The burning of the tar lake by the power plant causes the worst emissions. It's a big problem. We contribute to what we can. Every time I come, I bring this up with my colleagues there, who also accept that we feel involved. The problem hasn't been solved yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u109	I am pleased that the Minister is indeed offering practical help within the possibilities he has. Is it true that Dutch experts looking at the Isla refinery said that they did not want to continue their work, because the circumstances and standards under which they were to judge were so tragically bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u110	I can't confirm that. Whether that's the case, I should check. I didn't hear that in so many words. I think I have answered the questions in the area of Kingdom relations. But I still see Mr Potters.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr. Sjoerdsma, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u113	We have the same first name "Right," but my last name is an extension of my first name.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u114	That's an ass bridge!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u115	I don't want any muzzle bridges for last names, Mr. Chairman, because that's when it's gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u116	I had to chew very much on what the minister just said about observers. I have two questions about that. Was there any call for observers? If not, is it an idea, for example, to get to the OSCE that this would be a good place to send a short-term observer mission?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u117	Let me see if I can answer the question of whether observers have been asked. No, that doesn't exactly cover me. I will reply to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u118	I look forward to that answer. The second part of my question is about something that the Netherlands itself can proactively do. We also had OSCE observers in the last elections on 15 March. I was allowed to speak with them myself. We could say in the OSCE context that these may be elections worth observing in any case in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u119	I will pass on that suggestion to my colleague from the Foreign Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u120	I have one more question about the first part, if you will allow me, Mr President. I also had to chew on this, just as Mr Sjoerdsma had to chew on a number of things. I had to chew on the structural safeguard of human rights. I just had a little chat. The Netherlands and the BES Islands have a National Human Rights Action Plan to ensure and improve it. Can the Minister tell us whether Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin also have such action plans or whether they are in the making?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u121	I would be surprised if they had the same action plan. This really is a national responsibility. The National Human Rights Action Plan goes to the heart of society. You have to realize that. One of human rights also includes access to public sector information. When a city council creates a website with a video on it, it means that it has to be subtitled, so that people with visual impairment can take the content of it, or vice versa, so that people with hearing impairment can read the message because it is subtitled. These human rights therefore involve quite far-reaching measures. That is good, but I cannot just guarantee here that this has been worked out with the same fineness in the other three countries of the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u122	Indeed, the Minister goes very far in his examples. I can imagine that a country that is starting to give priority to a number of things. Could the Minister promise that he will be involved in a first consultation because he has structured consultations with the countries on human rights and will suggest that these countries will also consider such an action plan on human rights? It is, of course, an autonomous responsibility, but I believe that one plus one plus one will ensure that we as a Kingdom perform well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u123	If I may say that the Minister of V and J ensures that human rights are discussed in a structural manner in the Judicial Quadruple Party Conference, I would like to remove the one-sidedness that the Netherlands would suggest that they should do so. Because then it is as if the Netherlands is responsible for that. Then I would have been able to make a commitment without speaking to my colleague that this should be dealt with in a structural manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u124	That was the Minister's term. I'll see if there's a need for a second term. At least that is the case with Mr Bosman. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u125	Mr. Chairman. There is still some light between the Minister's approach and that of the VVD. We really do see this as an opportunity, a step in the escalation ladder, to reach a more compelling discussion, whether it is in the Council of Ministers or anywhere else, which I do not care about the fact that there should be a deadline check. We have to make agreements with each other in the sense of: boys, we all think this is important, but then we also have to give substance to it. We see enough places now, whether it's prison or the Isla, we can't agree on. We wait every time for the responsibility of the country, but that makes it difficult. We must, however, look for different responsibilities and possibilities. Then I'll come to the election. The elections are indeed a matter for the country, but if the guarantee of good governance is at stake, they will again become a matter for the Kingdom. So it is important that we all look closely at what is happening. I would again like to express my appreciation for the governor of Curaçao, Mrs George-Wout, but also for all those who are now going out on the streets, whether they are the social partners or church societies. They make it clear that it is time for elections, for the voice to be heard and for politics not to mess with elections. The Koeiman government did not fall because of a break between the coalition parties, but because of ship jumpers. Those are people who consider self-interest to be more important than national interests. My question is on the basis of what ideological grounds these people have made the switch to the camp Schotte. I can't think of any ideology other than the wallet. Surely it is too crazy for words that a convicted, corrupt money-launderer who has put the self-interest above the interests of the inhabitants of Curaçao is still trying to draw power towards him?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u126	Mr. Chairman. There is a group of people on Curaçao who want the Netherlands not to interfere and there is a small group on Curaçao who wants the Netherlands to take over the board. However, the vast majority of people on Curaçao simply want the best for the island. They want hope for the future after all the disappointments after 10-10-10. For these people, April 28th will be a very important day. Then Curaçao can choose: do we have a democratic state of law, do we have a future or do we have a common mafia state in the hands of criminals? People have that choice, but we have to help them. By Schotte, the underworld has created a culture of intimidation on Curaçao. Some people are scared. Sometimes the temptation of money is great; then you know what you have and at least you have something. I look with great care at the referendum in Curaçao on the future of the Kingdom and the future of Curaçao within the kingdom. I look with great concern at the fact that these elections should be organised under the responsibility of a government that will do everything in its power to boycott those elections and not let them continue. I have a lot of faith in the governor, in the minister and in the government council. I hope that we can at least ensure that the people of Curaçao can speak out on 28 April, that good elections are organised and that the Netherlands, and possibly other countries, offer all the help. I also hope that we will avoid the massive purchase of votes, the tampering with ballots and the prevention of fraud and intimidation. I sincerely hope that the people of Curaçao will have a fair chance on 28 April. I hope even more that they will seize their chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u127	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the countries of St.Maarten, Aruba and Curaçao provide for an opportunity to assess that the continuation of life imprisonment still serves any criminal purpose, but that this test is meaningless if adequate treatment and rehabilitation are not possible;]] [[calls on the Government to support the countries of St.Maarten, Aruba and Curaçao, by mutual agreement, with advice, training, training or offering effective adequate treatment and rehabilitation opportunities for lifelong punishments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32850-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u128	I very much agree with that, but I have the following dilemma. There is now an interim government that is not of good will. I don't know what kind of government there will be after April 28th. If that government is a Scout's puppet and the underworld, then such a motion doesn't make much sense. If it is a government that wants to move forward with the Netherlands and want a future for the island, then I am very much in favour of it. Is Mrs Van Tongeren prepared to hold the motion until after the elections? Then we know who we should be working with.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u129	Offering aid only to a government that is on our line is a curious way of thinking. We are dealing with development cooperation in all kinds of countries where we also have the greatest possible objections to the government or to some legislation. We trade with a lot of countries to which we have the greatest possible objections. That people there have been punished for life and are hopeless, and the violation of the human rights treaty, do not change with the type of government? I think we should do everything within the possibilities we have, but if the aid is not accepted, you can continue to offer it until you weigh one. However, I find it strange that non-offering is a kind of punishment because the people choose the wrong government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u130	It's about effectiveness. You can offer something, but someone has to want it. We can offer help to a government that doesn't want help, but then it all stays a little symbolic. My request was to hold the motion. Mrs Van Tongeren must, of course, decide for herself. She says we can offer help, but it may not be accepted. I would nevertheless like to offer more concrete help. I would like to offer help which can lead to something and which is not merely symbolic, because it is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u131	I share the sentiment of my colleague from the SP, but, again, I find it strange to say that you support a motion if the government you want is elected and that you do not support the motion if the people in a democratic process choose another government. I'm having a little trouble with that. It's with all the help, at any level, that you can't do anything with it if it doesn't get accepted. Then the Kingdom will remain in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights. I think that would be a great pity for both of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u132	Your second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u133	Yes, my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Kingdom of the Netherlands has failed to comply with the obligation under the ECHR to provide for a review option for life imprisonment prisoners;]] [[Whereas there is a reasonable possibility of a conviction by the European Court of Human Rights for breach of Article 8 of the ECHR by failing to intervene in the continuous exceedance of standards by the Isla refinery;]] [[calls on the Government to consult with the authorities of Curaçao in order to prevent a possible further breach of the ECHR,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Van Tongeren. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-22850-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u134	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his clear answer, especially on the Murray case. This made it clear how it is practically regulated and how the costs of the proceedings are shared between the different countries. I have a few comments to make on the elections. Others have said it, and I also said it in the first term: it is very important that these elections can take place at the level of the international standards we ourselves are used to in the Netherlands. People need to be able to choose who they want to choose without having to be afraid of the choice they make. I asked the Minister in the first place whether observers had been requested. I would still like to hear the answer to this. I would also like to hear in good time how the cabinet looks at the idea of inviting OSCE observers or at least inspiring them to take a look on the ground during the elections. For this, the Minister referred me to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Perhaps it is an idea that I should conclude my speech in order to send a letter of progress to the Chamber on the preparations and conduct of these elections in the not too long term, because it is topical for all of us. As it happens, we now had a moment to talk about it, because Mr Bosman had the providence to address this case, but it has not been said that this will be the case in the coming weeks. Perhaps the Minister could consider this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u135	The last speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Amhaouch, but he has waived his speaking time. The Minister can reply immediately and comment on the two motions. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u136	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to confirm to Mr Bosman, with whom I have worked excellently for years in the field of Kingdom relations, which I very much appreciate, that there is indeed, if we look at it in the main, some light between the position of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and mine. I stand for the standing policy and I stand for the Kingdom's relations as they are today. However, I would point out that on both sides of the ocean there are sometimes doubts as to whether this close relationship should be continued in the long term. I am in favour of that, because I think that life for people will eventually get better. Anyway, that's all I want to do for now. Mr Van Raak made a glowing speech. I wrote along for a while, and he also mentioned helping people make their choices. My own assessment is that it would also be counterproductive if we were to help people with choices. Free elections are held and everyone has to make their own choice. I stay away from the choices that need to be made there and really confine myself to the stately relations. I note that we have a different position in this debate. So part of that is perhaps understandable from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u137	I think that's a little silly of the Minister, because he knows I don't mean that. He knows that I do not mean that we are going to tell the people of Curaçao what to vote; that is what the people of Curaçao should know. The Minister is well aware of what I mean, namely that we are making a fair choice possible and that we are ensuring that the elections are organised properly and not in an atmosphere of fear and intimidation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u138	We are in complete agreement on this, but I also thought I could see some views on this or that politician there. I note that I am not taking on such qualifications because I do not think this is my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u139	But it's the role of MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u140	But I don't argue with that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u141	If a convicted former Prime Minister who has close ties with the Sicilian Mafia, who again has ties in Italy and bribes politicians, is going to lead a government in the Kingdom, then a representative of the people in this Chamber has a duty to express his concerns about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u142	The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u143	Yes. There are two motions before Mrs Van Tongeren. In the first motion I recognize a lot of the standing policy. I could therefore see them as support, except that the operative part also refers to the provision of effective treatment opportunities for life-long punishments. That would mean that the Netherlands would offer to create a facility there or here. In my view, then, we are out of the country's responsibilities, as they are now fixed. When it comes to support with advice, training and training, I can grasp all that under the assistance to each other. So if the last part of the operative part were to be deleted, I could see the motion as supporting policy or, perhaps better, I could leave the motion to the House's judgement. Otherwise, I would have to advise against the motion because when a motion is tabled, tasks will be assigned to the Dutch Government, which is actually part of the government of the country in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u144	We also have Norwegian and Belgian prisoners in the Netherlands. So if we can agree with Belgium, also an independent country, that some Belgians are in prison with us and we are doing the same with Norway, then we could also agree to do the same with Saint Martin, Aruba and Curaçao if that is the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u145	Yes, but in such cases, I almost assume that this is far beyond my portfolio limits, which means that there is a degree of mutuality or a delimitation of tasks. In any case, I am not free as Minister of Kingdom Relations to leave the opinion to the Chamber on such a proposal. If you would appreciate the advice from my profession to leave the judgment to the Chamber, that would only be possible if the part concerning the provision of the facilities was removed from the motion. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u146	Then I'm gonna go jigsaw on the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u147	Yes. The second motion by Mrs Van Tongeren I would like to discourage in any case. Of course, we feel a great deal of involvement in the issue of the refinery; I have just discussed this in detail. We are also contributing staff, and therefore implicitly financially, to doing something about it, but this motion is ahead of a condemnation by the European Court of Human Rights and seems almost to provoke it. I do not think it is my job to pronounce, as the motion does, that there is a reasonable chance of a conviction. Therefore, I advise against the motion. I do insist that the government cooperates with the government of Curaçao in order to contribute as much as possible to the resolution of this issue. Mr Sjoerdsma raised two further points. In the meantime, I can give him an answer to his question about the observers. Prime Minister Koeiman has asked for observers. That request is indeed being made through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is discussing it with some international organisations. He mentioned the OSCE, but I assume it is one of the organisations with which we are talking. That is indeed the case. Mr Sjoerdsma asked for a letter on the state of play at the elections in Curaçao. Most of it is still in the newspaper almost the same day, but it may be useful to get a letter about it at some point, perhaps with clarification from the Dutch Government or the Kingdom Government. I think it is important that the House of Representatives is well informed. Let me say that I do so at the moment I think useful information can be provided to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u148	Is it possible for our representative, who is present, to paint an image? So not only factually, but also a feeling. I do not know whether that can be done publicly or whether it should be done confidentially. I don't care. In any case, then, we have knowledge of what is going on, including people who are actually there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u149	That goes without saying. Everything we say about the situation on the ground is inspired by the information we get from our representative there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-03-30-tweedekamer-4.u150	Thank you. So much for this debate. On Tuesday we shall be voting on both motions, one of which may come to us in a modified form. We'll see about that. Thank you to the Minister for his missionary presence today. I'm suspending this meeting until 2:00 p.m. Then we have the order of business and then we have a debate on the report on the investigation.
