ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would, of course, like to welcome Mr Klein here, but also the people who support him. These are Mrs Hamelink, policy officer of Mr Klein, Mr Tielen, policy adviser of the Social Insurance Bank (SVB) and Mrs Bangert, legislative lawyer at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. They support Mr Klein in this initiative proposal. Also in trade-K is the State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment. It will advise the Chamber in the consideration of this bill. I would also like to welcome her, as do my colleagues here in the Chamber and the people who are following this debate, albeit in the public gallery or through the new media. We are going to listen to Mr Klein's first-term response, for which I am happy to give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We had the first term of office on 16 November. That is when the various groups asked questions. I would like to thank colleagues for their first-term input. As several Members have said, this initiative legislative proposal is indeed an intensive process in which the necessary energy and time go into it. This is particularly true of consultation, especially in this case, because we are talking about a proposal with the necessary support in society. It is therefore very welcome once the proposal is discussed in the Chamber and if it shows that the input and questions from the Chamber will help to improve the proposal. I will respond immediately to the questions and will do so on the basis of four blocks, starting with the aim of this bill, of making the AOW more flexible. A lot of questions have been asked about the income and the level of the AOW. An important point is, of course, public finances. Good questions have been asked about this too. I'll finish with the execution. How can we implement this plan? First of all, I think it would be good to look at the purpose of this bill. Why do we want to flexibilise the AOW, sooner or later? In 1957, the AOW was introduced as a kind of basic income for pensioners. This is very appealing to me, but over the years little has changed about the instrument itself. It is a relatively rigid instrument, with one fixed starting moment. I would like to bring it up to date by adding freedom of choice. This will allow people to choose for themselves when they enter the AOW. This file has a long history. There have been many proposals in the past, most recently in 2011, but unfortunately they have all ended up stranded. So choosing the moment when one wants to retire is not new. Many people leave their pension, the second pillar, earlier than they are now receiving AOW. It is therefore only logical to align the AOW with this social change. Then people are facilitated in their desire to actually retire sooner or later, just at the pivotal age of "65, 66," or it may take a few months to actually retire 67 years. That is exactly what this bill is about: more freedom of choice. That was also exactly the clear question put by Mrs Schut of the VVD. I hope that this objective has been well expressed. In addition, it is my aim not to complicate matters beyond what is necessary with this bill. That is why I agree as much as possible with how the AOW is now organised and with the principles that go with it. It is therefore not intended to make the AOW more social, as it is already very social. Mr Ulenbelt and Mrs Vermeij (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, I am now looking towards Mr Kerstens.................................................................................................................................................................................. People pay contributions for AOW and may therefore decide when they will receive that benefit. There is no question of a new redistribution of the AOW funds when entering into the AOW earlier or later. Mr Ulenbelt of the SP wondered whether the aim was for people to work longer or shorter than is currently the case. That is a very important question. The goal is to make sure that it is not surprising, however, neither. The goal is that people can choose for themselves what they want to do, rather stop working, work longer or start volunteering. It's not up to me, not the legislator, to decide what people want to do. You should want less patronizing at that point. As a government, all you have to do is make people's choices possible. That is actually what the legislative proposal is about: people who give choice. Mr Ulenbelt also wondered whether this proposal provided for longer-term solutions in the case of heavy-duty occupations or a difference in life expectancy between people in the context of the AOW. Although very positive and sympathetically thought along, that is not the purpose of this bill either and it has not been taken into account in the recitals. Problems must be solved at source, otherwise there can be no logical basis under a law that seeks to treat everyone equally. The discussion on the problem of heavy-duty professions should take place, in particular, between employer and employee, for example in collective bargaining. How can you offer people with heavy professions additional opportunities to quit earlier, for example? Of course, people may choose to retire earlier, for example because the profession they exercise is difficult for them. Of course, the questions about the income and the level of the AOW are important. The SP and Mr De Graaf of the PVV have asked which people would be eligible for the freedom of choice as regards the moment of admission. The answer is clear: in principle, everyone can benefit from this freedom of choice. However, at the time of the earlier inclusion, there is an additional requirement that we have already indicated in the legislative proposal, namely that there is a structural income in order not to be below the minimum level of living after the pivotal age. That means that if you can't prove that additional income, you can't participate in the flexible AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u3	This leads to questions. I would like to be the first to give Mr Van Weyenberg the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u4	It is good to be back here when an initiative law is being discussed. My group always appreciates it when Members take that trouble. I have a question about this. This was one of the two concerns of D66 in the first term. Can Mr Klein state exactly how he secured this? He says he has a security deposit. I invite him to say a little more about this and I assume that the Secretary of State will explain this point in her reply. It is precisely here that my group has the impression that this guarantee is not sufficient, but I am always happy to be convinced.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u5	I hope that in the course of this debate it will become clear that this will be guaranteed. The PvdA has asked what this means financially and what the amounts are now. I would like to come back to that in detail to make it clear that there are safeguards to ensure that people who want to take up their AOW early are not suddenly falling into a deep hole after the pivotal age. We have indicated these guarantees, and I would like to point them out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u6	I'll wait and see. I would ask Mr Klein to do so in a very specific, article-by-article way. Again, this was one of the two points on which my group still has concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u7	In the first period, we have also expressed our concern that we are wondering how many people we are talking about. How many people can make use of the regulation proposed by Mr Klein in his own initiative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u8	This is, of course, very difficult to describe in absolute figures. We have only indicated what the possible costs are as a result of the early withdrawal. We will come back to that in a moment to the chapter on financial coverage. In the early years you would lose an average of EUR 480 million on an annual basis. That can be translated into the people who can make use of it, but it is very difficult to tell how many people they are, because everyone can choose differently. So you can choose between one and five years. Another option is whether or not you do it part-time. That makes it difficult to describe the absolute number of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u9	Maybe that's where our fears are starting to come true. There are, of course, a number of variables. Mr Klein makes that very clear. The legislative proposal also makes it very clear that there must be guarantees. That is all very clear, but it will be difficult if we do not know who can use it, especially the people who are involved. It is difficult to judge as a party how many people can make use of this. I asked in the first term if it was only meant for the happy few in the end. I made that crazy: the somewhat older AVRO member who can easily take a cigar out of his own box. Then it will be a very small target group. I'd like to see that fear taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u10	I'd like to go into that. I also have it on paper: Mr De Graaf asks whether the government problem will be solved with a cigar from his own box. In the light of Mr Van Weyenberg's comment, too, I reply: that is not the case. Mr De Graaf is still hearing the comprehensive answer to this question. Anyone can do it sooner, as the benefit will be higher from the first pillar than it is now. So everyone can take advantage of the benefit of this proposal, but the question of solidarity is also an important question that has been raised. Solidarity is not affected. There is only freedom of choice. The whole basic system of the AOW premium remains the same, but there will be the freedom to choose when you want it to be paid out. So that has nothing to do with the idea of solidarity, because solidarity is maintained. I come to Mr De Graaf's question. Wouldn't it be much better to take the AOW age to 65? And is it actually a cigar from your own box? That's what we were just talking about. Choosing the system of freedom of choice is opting for an affordable system. The choice of flexibility of the start date of the AOW is a solution that allows people to make their own choice, regardless of the pivotal age. In fact, it has been established by the government as a reference point or a fixed entry point. No matter how it is pushed into the future, people keep the space to choose for themselves what they're going to do. So this is not for the happy few: the guarantee is in the demand to prove a month after you actually retire, so you have reached the pivotal age, that you have an additional income. In reply to a question by Mr Van Weyenberg, I will deal with the financial significance of this. Fortunately, many Dutch people have a supplementary pension, on top of their AOW. My proposal could lead to a good income above the level of the social minimum, to ensure that people do not sink through the ice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u11	That leads to a question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u12	I'm threatening not to see the trees in the woods anymore. That is also because I have taken over this debate from Mrs Vermeij, who is no longer our pension spokesman. Mr Klein will come up with figures later. He just said that this is a proposal that everyone can take advantage of. But if you take advantage of the possibility of letting your AOW enter earlier, that same AOW gets a lot lower, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u13	That's right. The amount of AOW that everyone gets about their actuarially calculated life remains the same. We don't normally pay out AOW to anyone anymore. So if you stop early, you get a lower AOW. You can calculate that percentage yourself. If you stop later, you get a higher AOW. But because you stop earlier the rest of your life that gets lower AOW, it makes no sense if people who stop after the spill age sink through the ice. So you have to avoid that by formulating a requirement: okay, how can you prove that you have a structural income after retirement, so that you do not fall through the social minimum?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u14	Before I entered the Chamber, I was chairman of the Construction Association FNV. I therefore always have to think of that construction worker who, at a very young age, started doing very hard work in weather and wind, and who also wants to make it to the finish line. That builder can make use of the possibility to get his AOW to enter earlier, but that leads to a lower AOW for the rest of his life. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes. The essence of the idea behind it is that he can only do so when he has built up a good pension at his pension fund, so that after the pivotal age there remains a good income.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u16	The sole purpose of this bill is, according to Mr Klein, freedom of choice. Now we always make laws here with the idea of solving social problems. I had also asked him if this bill, if adopted, would not pose a problem, namely that of choice stress. Because it's not small, if you have to decide at the end of your working life what your retirement, your AOW, your structural income and so on. Mr Klein is driving people crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr Ulenbelt is extremely good in terms of timing, because the following question was: Mr Ulenbelt asks whether people are not affected by choice stress as a result of this initiative proposal. That is a very good question; thank you for the bridge. First of all, we are talking about more choice for people. On the website of the Sociale Verzekeringsbank it is agreed that a calculation aid will be developed to make it clear what the consequences are of bringing forward an appeal to the AOW, postponing it and part-time AOW, calculated on the basis of your AOW benefit. It is rightly said that you can take a positive approach to things in life, but that you can also take a negative approach to them. I agree with Mr Ulenbelt: with a flexible starting date for the AOW you give people basically a choice. The positive thing about that is that people can decide for themselves where they want to work, that they can plan and give meaning to their lives. From my liberal political background, I think that people are very capable of determining when they will retire. The study of people's views on the flexible AOW shows that 70% consider this to be positive. So these people don't care about choice stress. The perspective that they gain more control and insight into their own lives appeals to them and that may be stress-reducing. In short, there is no real choice stress. Because if you don't choose, everything stays the same. Mr Ulenbelt and Mr Van Weyenberg asked in the first term what is meant by a stable and regular income. Article 16c (4) of the Act provides that an application for the earlier commencement of the full or part of the AOW pension than the AOW pensionable age is to be granted only if, as from the first day of the month following the month in which the AOW pension is reached, the applicant has a structural net income per month, including the retained pension, which is equal to or higher than the welfare standard for a single person entitled to an AOW pension. This condition is therefore included in order to prevent the voluntary entry of the AOW pension leading to increased recourse to the Participation Act. The explanatory memorandum also states that there must be a structural, sustainable minimum net income. This means that a certain minimum income must remain available after reaching the AOW age. There must therefore be stable, regular income. Supplementary pension is obtained from individual pension provisions, e.g. annuities, but insurance products that are paid may also be included. In this context, income from labour cannot be regarded as a structural income. After all, you can stop working and suddenly sink through the ice. The Article 12a of the AOW, to be amended, stipulates that AMvB must define precisely what is to be understood as "income" as referred to in Article 16c (4). The proposed Article 16c of the AOW provides for the possibility of laying down detailed rules for the fourth paragraph, including what is meant by "structural net income." The need to determine this at AMvB is entirely in line with other social legislation. Indeed, the 2011 Harmonisation and Simplification of Social Security Law sets out the uniform basis for determining at AMvB what is meant by "income" as referred to in the relevant law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'd like to take this to a more abstract level. To the questions about income after retirement, the petitioner constantly gives the answer: people simply have to have a good supplementary pension and then there is no problem at all. But we have arranged it in the Netherlands, quite consciously, that the AOW is 70% of the minimum wage for someone who lives alone. So if you pick up AOW earlier and then lower the AOW, that's a huge reduction for a lot of people who've had an income on or around the minimum wage their whole life. They will never be able to meet that standard. What alternative does the initiative of Mr Klein, the author, offer to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u19	It is about what you have built up in your working life in pension provision and whether you have been able to save with, for example, annuities, but that may not be the issue at all in that group. We must make use of the collective pension schemes in which we have participated. Mrs Schut is quite right that it is not for people who have not been involved in this type of provision in the course of their lives and therefore have not built up adequate pension funds, who have not saved up and who cannot prove that they can have an additional income, to be able to obtain an AOW early, since the AOW is then reduced and they are at risk of falling below that minimum of living after their 65th. That is a clear matter. That also means that they do not have the choice to quit earlier. They do, of course, keep the bill that makes it possible to stop later. That they continue to work to make their AOW higher, because if you work longer, the AOW will be postponed and you will get a higher AOW afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u20	I conclude that this is indeed only for the happy few. This leads to a follow-up question, which I also asked in the first term, but which has not yet been answered. Perhaps Mr Klein was still planning to do so, but I would like to put it to you now. It may also be that you have sufficient pension after your AOW pensionable age, but that is not uncommon nowadays that the pension fund falls suddenly during the journey, because the pensions are cut or because your pension fund gets into trouble. Then I read in the petitioner's proposal that the AOW is suddenly cut by 30%. Is that the stability Mr Klein is striving for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u21	We need to distinguish between two discussions. The first is the discussion about the security of value and the situation regarding pensions and what is going to happen with them. We can talk about this in detail at another time, because there are, of course, a number of major errors. There are 1,300 billion in the pension pots, while there are discounts and no indexations. How can you rhyme that with each other? However, I would like to leave that discussion out of this. It is now about the calculation tool that the Social Insurance Bank will give to indicate what, at the time you have reached retirement age, your pension will be according to the pivotal age. You can slide in there. It is not, therefore, as Mrs Schut suggests, that a 30% discount always applies. That 30% discount only applies if someone chooses to stop five years earlier. Based on what they've built up, people can also say: I'm not going for five years, because that's impossible, but I'm going to retire two years earlier. Then there are plenty of possibilities. So it's definitely not just for the happy few. It is for anyone who has built up a pension over the years or has otherwise arranged a structural provision for post-retirement. Fortunately, the happy few, if we call them that, are already a very large number, because millions in the Netherlands fortunately have a good pension provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u23	One very brief follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u24	The answer to my question is this. Suppose someone's already retired early, whether that's three years or five years. What happens if it appears during the journey that his supplementary income is reduced and reduced after the pivotal age? Are people actually reduced by 20% or 30% on their AOW, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u25	That situation is clear. You've got the AOW; it's lowered. It is not shortened, but reduced by the freedom of choice by a percentage of up to 30, depending on the number of years you have. Then you look at your structural income from supplementary pension. So you have those two elements. Fortunately, we have a third element in the Netherlands. That is the AIO, the supplementary income provision for the elderly. At that time, this can be used. You can then rely on this supplementary income provision, because at that time, as Mrs Schut-Welkins has pointed out in her example, people would fall through the ice by reducing pensions extra. That is to say the safety net that we have fortunately arranged very socially with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u26	I see that a number of colleagues still have a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u27	I'll be brief. One of the vulnerabilities of the initiative proposal is that Mr Klein chooses to make it possible to stop no less than five years earlier. This vulnerability concerns both the financial affordability of the initiative proposal and the risk that groups will later have to rely on this additional income support, as I would like to mention. Has Mr Klein, bearing in mind the first term of the Chamber, considered changing the deadlines? If you assume that two years are needed, I'm going to give you an arbitrary figure, then the discount on the AOW is much smaller, and hence the income risk that people run later. All sums show that for the financial sustainability that minus 5 is negative. This increases the risk that some colleagues are asking for. After the first period, has Mr Klein considered adapting his proposal on this point and not making those deadlines symmetrical, not identical?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u28	We did consider that. Perhaps I should have contacted the Labour Party. It was in her election program: two years shorter. The question is how. I expected an amendment, but I have not seen it so far. The other thing we have considered, but in principle, Mr Van Weyenberg of D66 must address that question.The question is: am I my brother's keeper, so to speak, should I decide what is good for someone? No, we give someone the tools to choose for five or two years. Perhaps it would be much wiser for the person concerned to assume two years. Is it up to the government to say "you get two years, you get three years and you get four years"? We have now chosen for five years, only because the discount that arises can still be acceptable in the light of the supplement that is needed to your pension after your 65th.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u29	My interruption was meant to be an outstretched hand. This is precisely what concerns me and many of my colleagues. Mr Klein also opts for five years and many parties are concerned that the discount will be so high that the risk of people sinking through the ice later will be too great. And yes, the government has to look at that, because it pays up if that happens unexpectedly. So I can go very far with Mr Klein's principle, but I do think we should ensure that we minimise the risk. Then I think five years too long, I'll be honest. This choice also shows that there is a large financial cost involved in this proposal. Mr Klein referred to the Labour Party and asked for an amendment. This is extremely complex matter. It is one of the largest expenditure items. I had hoped that Mr Klein, with his excellent support, who I myself was the initiator, would also be able to come up with a letter of amendment from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. But I have to say that this is not the plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u30	Let us not anticipate further treatment. I think Mr Van Weyenberg is sending a very serious signal. We need to pick that up. This was done in the first instance because it was stated: what problem do you solve? In fact, you're going to tell people that you can only do that two years ago. That's fine. There is no objection to that, on the contrary, because you have all that choice. The only question is: do we have enough guarantees? We have built in these guarantees by demanding a structural income after your pivotal age. If there is a structural income that is too low, you cannot even qualify for a discount to stop, for example, at your 62nd or 63rd, three or four years earlier. That is simply not possible because that requirement is not met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u31	I see that Mr Heerma wants to ask another question. I hope we're not repeating ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u32	I have a follow-up question to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, because not all the answers are entirely clear to me. What about the short- and long-term financial issue of this proposal by bringing it forward for five years? Mr Van Weyenberg asked for it and many groups asked for it in the first term. The second part of the question is: what should the level of that structural income be, does anyone want to be able to stop five years earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u33	On the first question, I would like to come back to the block on funding and its impact. I can say the following about the second part. The starting point is the height of an AOW for a single person. That is the 70% Mrs Schut mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u34	That is the starting point, but what is the pension that someone must have built up in order to qualify for the test that Mr Klein keeps talking about? How high does that pension have to be to be able to claim that five years earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u35	Shall I answer that question right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u36	The question has been asked, so in itself it is useful if you answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u37	Mrs Vermeij asked exactly the same question on behalf of the Labour Party in the first term as Mr Heerma is now asking, and rightly so. They both ask about the net monthly figures relating to the five years earlier start-up of an AOW benefit. What additional net amount is needed not to fall below the welfare standard? This initiative proposal proposes a reduction of 32.5% in the case of AOW five years earlier. It is then 5x6.5%, i.e. 6.5% per year. A single person will receive €675 net per month until he has passed the AOW pill age. Afterwards, this single person will still have €720 net per month. That difference is due to the old-age discount. However, as I indicated in the note to the report, there will not be sufficient net structural income if there is no supplementary pension. Therefore, the voluntary raising of the AOW age is not intended to lead to additional recourse to the Participation Act. We have therefore indicated that an additional pension of €8,800 gross per year is needed to reach that limit in case someone takes up AOW five years earlier. Of course, that amount may be lower when it comes to fewer years, but if you assume the maximum, those five years, then you are talking about €8,800 gross supplementary pension per year. This corresponds to a supplementary pension of €730 gross per month. In net terms, this is €425. That's the situation at five years. You can then calculate via the wizard, the calculation tool that the SVB will provide, what you actually need for supplementary pension. I hope I have answered Mr Heerma's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u38	I see that it is, but that leads to another question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u39	Indeed, the Labour Party initially asked for amounts in euros. How much is it going to cost you if you use the option to receive an AOW benefit earlier? That's the answer to the question of how much you have to use from the pension you've saved up throughout your working life to do that? I would like to ask this construction worker again: does Mr Klein have an idea of the average supplementary pension of a construction worker? And does he know if that's enough to make earlier use of the AOW scheme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u40	That's not how I did it. That is also in line with my answers to Mr Ulenbelt's questions. The purpose of the law is not so much to relieve people with a heavy occupation. The purpose of the law is to create that freedom of choice. Every individual, in every sector, has achieved a pension build-up. Next, the system of the law is such that the person concerned, the person who would like to retire earlier, asks the pension administrator what the possibilities are and what pension he has built up. Of course everyone can already get an indication via mypension.nl, but I didn't explicitly calculate this for groups, because that is completely impossible in the light of individual possibilities and individual opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u41	Do I understand correctly that the construction worker who wants to make use of the opportunity to go with AOW earlier and then face a much lower AOW for life cannot even make use of that opportunity, because he has not spared enough elsewhere to do so at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u42	It is therefore the other way around: that construction worker cannot even use a reduction in the retirement age if there is insufficient supplementary pension. That also depends on the way he wants to stop earlier. Maybe he only wants to quit two years early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u43	My conclusion is that this is a dead sparrow for those who have the most interest in letting the AOW age begin earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u44	It's a choice; it's not a dead sparrow. We need to work together to ensure that people can build a good pension, but that trajectory is outside this discussion. The same applies, for example, to the self-employed. They often do not build up a pension, but use other facilities. They may or may not have recourse to that. In fact, it is a question of why you must insist on the age limit currently laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u45	May I ask if you have completed the income block and the height of the AOW in response to all the interruptions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u46	That's a good question. A lot of questions have been asked about the AMvB: do you have to do all that by AMvB? Yeah, we should just do that by AMvB, because that's common. On the basis of the regulatory guidance, it is common practice for the main elements of the scheme, including its scope and structural elements, to be incorporated into the law and delegated. That is why the AMvB has been chosen in this context in the legislative technique, but ultimately it is a question of whether the parts are of such significance that direct parliamentary influence by the Second Chamber is structuralally in the reasoning. I have chosen that the core, the structural income, is in the law and that the impact lies with the AMvB. It is up to the government to give substance to that. This will also ensure that the government takes care of this effect and that it can make a good and careful assessment even better. We can all conclude that as the demands on structural income become heavier, the risk of people still using assistance under the Participation Act is reduced. Capturing this in an AMvB also has the important advantage that it does not require a whole legislative process and that it is therefore flexible and faster to achieve and adapt. Moreover, the legislative proposal also assumes a mandatory review period of five years after entry into force, including, of course, the effectiveness and impact of the law on people's structural income. So we're definitely gonna test that, too. Mr Ulenbelt further asked if you could continue to work after the early AOW. Yeah, you can just keep working. At present, the AOW does not constitute any obstacle to further work. But then the question arises, which Mr Ulenbelt also asked, whether we might be dealing with some kind of tax evasion, because you get your AOW later and then you don't pay taxes on it. There is no question of tax evasion; nothing is being evaded. We do not speak of 'tax evasion' unless we act against the law. That is not what the author is trying to do, I am not trying to do, nor is it going to do. It makes sense, however, that there will be a shift. Because people will later receive their AOW, taxation on that income share will only come later. Mr Ulenbelt presented to me the next case of someone who would like to bring the benefit forward for five years; should one take AOW earlier if one is in the assistance? Mr Van Weyenberg also asked a question about this: can the under-AOW at some point lead to a claim to the AIO? A person who retires for five years and makes the allowance pay five years earlier will face that discount for life. The applicant must therefore have a structural income. Labour is not on the agenda. This proposal introduces a voluntary option. This is therefore not compulsory; it is voluntary. It must also be a real choice for welfare recipients. This is not the case for beneficiaries under the age of 65. The possibility of early retirement is not a provision in the Participation Act for them. After all, if you do it sooner, you can be cut back on your assistance, so on balance it doesn't help you at all. They will, of course, not use early entry into the AOW. We've just talked about the amount of money. I shall continue with the questions put by Mr Kerstens and Mrs Vermeij of the Labour Party. They asked if it was an idea to reduce the rate of storage at the time of delay, because people who delay would otherwise get a lot of money. If you go later, you would necessarily get more AOW, so that storage rate could be reduced. Actuarial neutrality is the starting point: what you get less in advance, you should get more afterwards. The principle is that the total AOW pension, i.e. what is paid on average over the remaining life cycle, is the same regardless of the choice of whether or not to start the pension earlier. Moreover, the reduction in that rate for people who want to pay out their AOW later can lead to people deciding not to do so with the AOW pension. After all, it becomes even more attractive to save your AOW yourself. The downward effect on additional AOW expenditure by postponing part of the pension can thus be offset. Moreover, the budgetary impact of the flexibility of the AOW may be even higher. In the short and medium term, the sec ond start-up of the AOW pension will lead to savings in AOW expenditure. I have also indicated this in the explanatory memorandum. On the one hand, savings can be higher due to a lower rate of storage, which is the upward effect. On the other hand, savings may be lower as fewer people decide to postpone the AOW pension due to a lower rate of storage, which is the downward effect. If the rate of storage for persons who allow the AOW to enter later is lower than the actuarially neutral rate of storage, it becomes much less attractive to postpone the AOW pension. After all, a person with a longer average life expectancy receives less AOW pension over the entire remaining lifespan than when it comes to the pivotal age. The final effect will therefore depend heavily on the design and is currently being neutrally regulated. The PvdA has asked about the duty of care. She thinks you should protect people a little from herself and ask how this is designed. This bill does not include an explicit statutory obligation of care. The Social Insurance Bank plays a role in this, but is not a financial adviser. So he will not say "you have to do this or you have to do it," but he can indicate what the possibilities are. The task of the Social Insurance Bank in this respect is to provide the right information to the customers, to assess the applications and to calculate the amount of the AOW, if you would allow it to enter into earlier or later. The effect is that there will be a wizard, a calculation tool on the website, which allows people to view the effects in the knowledge of their AOW if they want to get that AOW benefit earlier, later or part-time. Trade unions and older people's organisations can play a role in the provision of information; this has become clear in our preliminary consultation. In the conversations they have shown the willingness to give this service to their members. The CNV and the Union KBO have asked the same question as members Van Weyenberg and Heerma. In their view, people could possibly be forced by the employer to take part-time AOW. I do not share the concerns expressed by the CNV, the Union of CEDEFOP and both colleagues. Even now, people can retire early. They may take up their second-pillar pension earlier. I haven't heard any sounds of people being forced by their employer to do so. Just like the promotion of the second pillar pension, the promotion of the AOW benefit is a choice of people. Of course, the whole story about structural income applies. I also refer to the social partners and their responsibility. The social partners, such as the CNV, are involved in collective agreements. It will explicitly show that you cannot be forced to take up your pension earlier. I think it would be wise to settle that in the collective agreement. Moreover, collective agreements can only be made universally binding if the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment has approved them. So that's another guarantee. Mr De Graaf had a good question: how many elderly people can actually allow the AOW benefit to go forward without a fall in poverty? We know that not everyone has the option, because some people have too low incomes. So you have to work on providing good information to ensure that early retirement does not lead to poverty traps, because if people realize that, they will now be a thief of their own wallet. That is what we want to prevent. Mr Ulenbelt has asked how often pension administrators are required to provide data related to the assessment of income. That is at one time, namely only at the time when an application is made by the future beneficiary for early withdrawal of the AOW benefit. Then the pension administrator is asked to indicate the supplementary structural income of the person in question. Mr Heerma asked a question about the complexity. Isn't it too complex? The Social Insurance Bank has carried out an implementation test on the initiative proposal. The proposal was amended during the journey. A complexity is being introduced, namely those moments of choice, but according to the SVB it must certainly be feasible. Finally, I come to the issue of finance. How much is this? Mr De Graaf asked about the financial consequences of this flexibilisation combined with that flexible AOW date. Turning the age of AOW back to 65, for example, costs billions of euros in the short and medium term. I'm not suggesting that. If, in addition, the AOW age is further increased, the financial deficits will of course be even greater. Then we are talking about a reduction in the AOW age to 65 years plus that flexibilisation. I can't imagine what the consequences could be. We will not be able to make that clear immediately either, because unfortunately the PVV will not have its election programme passed through the Central Planning Bureau. Mr De Graaf did ask for the result of the flexibilisation of retirement. In the initiative proposal, the pension can be taken up earlier than when someone is 65 years old. To reach the pivotal age, a person who takes up his pension earlier will be compensated for the AOW contribution he has to pay. You have to pay your AOW premium until you reach the pivotal age, but this proposal will compensate you for that. But in actuarial terms, someone will eventually receive the same thing during his life. Mr Heerma asks whether people exhibit strategic behaviour. Would people play with that and then what would be the consequences? AOW expenditure is likely to change or will not change when a flexible entry age is introduced. Theoretically, people with low incomes and relatively low life expectancy could be expected to benefit from early retirement. This group would benefit from early retirement, as it would increase the total benefit during the pension period. On the other hand, people with high incomes and life expectancy benefit from a later withdrawal, so the assumption would be. In his publication Kansrijk labour market policy, the Central Planning Bureau writes about a study carried out in 2014 by Dellaert and Ponds. However, this study does not reveal such strategic behaviour. I hope this has taken away that concern. I would like to talk about the budgetary implications. The spokesmen of the Labour Party, D66, the VVD and the CDA have rightly asked questions about the coverage. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u47	Before you continue on the subject of cover, Mr Van Weyenberg has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u48	Of course, calculations have been made by the Central Planning Bureau about the shelf life. Mr Klein confirmed that this proposal cost money in this form and ex post, in terms of its effects, in CPB language leads to less employment and a deterioration in the sustainability of public finances. That's what I make of it when I put the plan a little along the bar of the CPB's rules of play. I'm assuming the Secretary of State says something about this. Can I just hear Mr Klein confirm that? That is a choice and I respect it, but that is what Mr Klein is saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u49	It's right here. It's a fair question. In itself, it is also a justified observation. Originally, it was stated in my proposal that it could be covered by using the reintegration budget for 62-plussers. That is a possibility, but it is totally inadequate. The cost is 480 million euros per year for the first six years. Afterwards you get an income effect because you get to deal with the later pension costs. After six years, it turns into less spending. In fact, some of the people will have the pension started earlier than is currently calculated. It is therefore important to first agree on the principle of flexibility of the AOW.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u50	I already agree with Mr Klein on the principle. However, my question concerns the following. It will cost money in the long term, but if I compare the proposal with the calculation that the CPB has done, then the form that Mr Klein proposes will lead to a sharp deterioration in the sustainability of public finances and not to a reduction in employment growth in the long term. Again, it is a choice, but I would like confirmation, because then the D66 Group can weigh that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u51	Indeed, on the basis of the results of the aforementioned study of Dellaert and Ponds, there is no budgetary impact of the flexibility of the AOW. Ex post is a negative budgetary effect; Mr Van Weyenberg is right about that. This is mainly due to the decline in employment. But the CPB assumes that people will stop working sooner. This is about the development of the employment rate. The question then is whether this is serious: is it a problem for such a system to arise? A discussion was held on the assessment of the analysis of the Central Planning Bureau. That's just been an analysis, but it didn't make any judgment. For the sake of completeness, the Central Planning Bureau does not include a lot of aspects. People, for example, start volunteering or become carers. In addition, people may also be happier with more freedom of choice. These aspects of social value have not been taken into account by the CPB. Then you have to consider whether you think that's important or not. That's a political choice. We need to talk about this political choice in particular. Does politics, we as parties and the House of Representatives consider it important that flexibility of the AOW becomes an option? I have to conclude that the political will is there. Election programmes are positive about that. We can, of course, talk about whether it is wise to shorten the deadline by letter of amendment. But the voters, the people in the country, are positive about the idea of a flexibilisation of the AOW, like a lot of parties in this Chamber. The survey carried out by the Elders' Association also shows that there is a positive view of the idea of a flexibility of the AOW. De Telegraaf also noted this morning that unfortunately it is often only words. The actions are left behind because of the financial picture. In budgetary terms, therefore, a solution must be found only in the short term. This amounts to 480 million a year. In the longer term, however, the whole proposal is budgetaryly neutral. So we are dealing with a transitional period. I mentioned the reintegration budget because it falls within the SZW budget, but you can also make very different choices. For example, you can increase VAT, cut defense or delete it from the development cooperation post, but that is completely unfeasible in the legislative process we are now in. I have been thinking about how to find a good, creative and constructive solution. There is a chance that this will work, because we are now at the end of a cabinet period. The end of Rutte II cabinet is in sight. That is why I propose that good financial coverage be part of the forthcoming cabinet formation. The examination of this proposal in the Lower House can be concluded. The proposal then goes to the First Chamber. The First Chamber can deal with the proposal in my view, but we will have to ensure that this is done only after the formation has been completed. Then the flexible AOW in the formation can be covered and actually realized. In this way, we are doing justice in a constructive way to the social desire and, in fact, to the desire of most political parties in this Chamber to make the AOW more flexible. The principle and work that must be done in order to implement the system can be established in the Lower House, but the introduction depends on the possibilities of coverage, as we can determine in the cabinet formation. Of course, I hope to make a contribution to this later with my party, the Free Party, but that is for the electorate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u52	This will put an end to Mr Klein's input. I give the floor to the State Secretary for Social Affairs and Employment for her opinion to the Chamber on this initiative legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u53	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the input from the Chamber. I am sitting here as the advisor to the Chamber, because this is an initiative legislative proposal by Mr Klein. We just heard his first term. I have listened carefully, including the contribution in the first term of the Chamber. The Chamber has not asked me many specific questions. Mr Van Weyenberg has asked me a specific question. Before I go into his question, I would like to say that this subject, the flexibility of the AOW, is a matter of attention, also in the context of the debate on our pension system. The cabinet is in favour of a further investigation on this point. The tendering procedure for this investigation has now started. I assume that the results of the survey will be insightful for the summer. The research should make it concretely clear for which groups in society can be a flexible AOW of added value. You will then have to look at how to deal with the second pillar, if there is one, and I have listened carefully to the input of the Chamber in this context. This initiative will not help people with insufficient supplementary pensions. We are very busy with the investigation. We attach great importance to this from the cabinet. I would now like to answer Mr Van Weyenberg's question. He indicated that he took the criticism of the Council of State to heart. That criticism is a big one. The Administrative Justice Section considers that the proposal is at odds with the core elements of the AOW. These key elements are, of course, collective insurance, basic provision, pay-as-you-go and simple design. The proposal is not consistent, says the Council of State, with collective solidarity which cannot normally be avoided on an individual basis. The proposal provides for compensation for contributions, so that the previously introduced AOW benefit is not taxed with 17.9% AOW premium. People who do not use the flex option will continue to pay this AOW premium. Furthermore, the section notes that the condition of the presence of structural income is not a guarantee. This may conflict with the basic principle of the AOW as a basic benefit, on which in principle no additional assistance is required, if you have a full AOW. Unforeseen circumstances can nevertheless lead to a necessary call for assistance. It is true that there has just been a debate on what guarantees are needed in order to have a permanent and sustainable income. That will have to be settled at AMvB. It's gonna have to be the Cabinet. In short, there is still a need for ins and outs, I imagine. The Council of State also says that the complexity of the proposal is at odds with one of the core elements of the AOW, the simple design. Nor does the section exclude that the proposal could lead to risk selection. On the basis of an individual assessment of life expectancy, one can gain an advantage by allowing the AOW to start earlier. Many words have been devoted to this too. I say this in response to Mr Van Weyenberg's question, which is now on the interrupting microphone. He asked me what I thought of the criticism of the Council of State. I can imagine that criticism.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u54	Nevertheless, Mr Van Weyenberg has a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u55	Yes, I do, because I share some of the criticism. I have two specific questions. Is it true that the criticism would be reduced if you were to limit the period in which the AOW is allowed to enter early? This also reduces the risk that you will have insufficient income later on. My second question is: is it true that, according to the Council of State, the risk would increase if you did not treat actuarially neutrally, but with another set-off system? It is true in Mr Klein's proposal that you will eventually bring forward your own AOW and there will be no redistribution between individuals, so to speak. Could the Secretary of State briefly comment on these two points?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u56	I said for a reason that the cabinet really believes that we should be able to look at the flexibility of the AOW. In fact, it is something that may also be a panacea for people who find it difficult to reach the AOW-right age. I have to say that this proposal does not provide a solution. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the criticism of the Council of State might be less severe if the period had been shortened to two or three years instead of five. My answer to that is yes. The fact that you can look at actuarial neutrality helps, of course. That must also be taken into account in the research I just suggested. In this sense, the criticism becomes less severe, but that does not alter the fact that the criticism is fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u57	No, exactly, because if you were going to put money between AOWs, the criticism would get bigger, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u58	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u59	This is not a panacea so anyone with a heavy occupation can stop earlier. I do not believe that Mr Klein had put it that way either. It may help some of the people who have worked for a long time and have a supplementary pension, but it is not a miracle cure. I think that's how it is. I also think that there is a group of people who can help this, but I agree with the Secretary of State that this is not a generic solution for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u60	Mr Van Weyenberg asked about the financial effects in the first period. As far as I am concerned, Mr Klein has taken a good look at this. The estimate is surrounded by a lot of uncertainty, but it is now estimated that expenditure on the AOW will increase by 3 billion cumulatively up to 2024. Because it is not exactly known what kind of redirection the initiator wants to put on the other side, Mr Klein has said a lot about this and it is a political consideration, which is correct, I must say that there is inadequate coverage. That makes perfect sense. In the long term, there are adverse financial consequences, as the sustainability of public finances deteriorates as a result of the decline in employment. Many words have been devoted to this too. Calculations of less far-reaching proposals show that the sustainability of public finances is already deteriorating by around 0.2% or 0.3% of GDP. That's about 1.4 to 2 billion. Those are therefore also substantial sums. It is important to emphasise that we really need to look at what is being resolved by embracing this proposal. The added value should be that through this freedom of choice groups in society could sooner or later grab the AOW. However, we must also note that people with sufficient supplementary pensions are already able to flex very well, through the second pillar, and that people with insufficient supplementary pensions will not be able to do so with this initiative either. Again, I find it very worthwhile to await the investigation. The tendering procedure has started. I think that the cabinet has given my advice in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u61	I had one comment from the Secretary of State, namely that this study will also look at the actuarial transfer. What exactly does she mean by that? After all, that is a very large part, the balance and that you actually paint your own AOW over several years. Let me summarize this briefly. Then why does the Secretary of State want to look at that? Does she want to deal with it in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u62	That's what the investigation has to prove. I think that we really need to look at whether flexibility can provide a solution for all Dutch people and not just, as Mrs Schut has just said, for those who have already saved quite a solid pension together. She called it the happy few, but luckily there are a little more than "few." However, it is far from possible for everyone. I think that's essential, so that's part of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u63	This will put an end to the Secretary of State's opinion and thus to the first-term response. I would then like to move on to the second term, with a speaking time of two minutes per group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u64	Mr. Chairman. The discussion about a flexible AOW is mainly motivated by the fact that there are people who are very difficult to reach or cannot reach the AOW age. This proposal is only about freedom of choice. Mr Klein says that it is neither social nor antisocial, but it is not a solution to a social problem and that hurts me. If this bill were to become a reality, it also means that we will have people with low AOW and people with high AOW. This means, by definition, increasing income disparities among pensioners. My group does not think that this is desirable either. This is what I will tell my group and I am sure it will come to a very wise judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u65	Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party wants people to get to the finish line after often a lifetime of work, and then enjoy a well-earned old age. For people who have started working at a young age, have worked a month in, a month out of heavy work and have not earned a super salary, it can help to bring the AOW forward. That is why the Labour Party is in favour of this. We were already in 2011, when receiving AOW earlier was part of the pension agreement concluded at the time. Unfortunately, that chord did not reach the finish line itself. Unfortunately, because in addition to the possibility to receive AOW earlier, that agreement contained more things that made it possible, especially for people in heavy occupations with not the highest salaries, to achieve a healthy finish, physically and financially. That is what Mr Klein's proposal is missing. He presented the possibility to receive earlier AOW not as part of a wider package of measures but isolated. In addition, he pays for his proposal by removing measures for older jobseekers, who themselves have nothing to do with the proposal. To sum up, as with basic income, Mr Klein has once again managed to tackle a socially relevant issue, which is homage to it, but, like then, there is quite a lack of implementation. By the way, it will be clear that for the Labour Party the possibility of getting fit in the finish line by letting the AOW enter earlier is certainly not off the table. To bring that opportunity a little closer, I've prepared a motion. It builds on the investigation which the Secretary of State has just spoken about and tightens up that investigation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the AOW should also be maintained for future generations as a solid and solidarityary retirement provision;]] [[Whereas, on average, people continue to work more and more, but no longer work is possible for everyone and is not perceived as desirable in every situation;]] [[Whereas freedom of choice with regard to the date of retirement should enable people to make a good transition between work and retirement in their individual situation;]] [[noting that supplementary pensions already offer the possibility of opting for an individual retirement age or part-time pension on the basis of actuarial netting;]] [[Whereas people without a supplementary pension or a small supplementary pension do not have this option with regard to the date of retirement or part-time pension, and that freedom of choice should not result in people having to avail themselves of the assistance;]] [[calls on the Government to examine for which groups in society and under what conditions a flexible AOW or a more specific scheme of added value could be,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34414-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u66	I had experienced that the Secretary of State had just promised this. Anyway, sometimes you want to mark a point. It's okay. I do have a question for Mr Kerstens. The Labour Party has already presented a plan. D66 has plans, too. Of course, we want to see whether they work, whether they are suitable for the people and whether they are affordable. That research is good, but I assume that I will find just a calculated proposal in the election programme of the Labour Party, as it has been announced. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u67	Oh, yeah. One of the plans in our election programme has to do with a flexible AOW. We want to make it possible, especially for people who have done hard work for a very long period of time, to get the AOW to go in earlier, in a decent way. I'm sure we'll let that go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u68	That's good. I welcome the fact that the importance of freedom of choice, which is what my group is appealing to in this proposal, is also reflected in Mr Kerstens' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u69	I heard the Secretary of State say in the reply that such an investigation has already been tendered and that it is coming. Then Mr. Kerstens' motion is superfluous, isn't it? Then why is he filing her?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u70	Because I want to expand and tighten that investigation. As a result of an earlier motion tabled by Mr GroenLinks and signed by your party and my party, the Secretary of State said that an investigation will begin into the possibilities for people with heavy professions to stop working earlier. I would like to take into account the question under which conditions that becomes attractive enough for people. The Secretary of State has not indicated this; I would like that tightening up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u71	But these proposals are not in the election programme of the Labour Party. Is this an extension of that? It's not a containment. If it is an extension, why is it not in the election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u72	This is not something that should be in our election programme. We propose to make the flexible AOW possible, so that people who start at a young age and do heavy work, but don't earn a super salary and don't automatically get fit the finish, get that finish fit, possibly using an earlier AOW. That must be an AOW you can afford. That is why it is important to bring the discussion a little closer and to identify the conditions under which it is good enough for people to make real use of it. That's why I'm asking in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u73	A short question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u74	During the presentation of the election programme, this flexible AOW was a solution for everyone. Is it true that Mr. Kerstens is restricting this plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u75	Good question, which gives me the opportunity to say that there is no restriction here. The flexible AOW should apply to everyone under the same conditions. But Mr Van Weyenberg can't blame me, given my history, for paying particular attention to those people who start out young, do heavy work and don't earn super salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u76	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Klein and the Secretary of State for replying and to the supporters. As mentioned earlier, we share the analysis and the objective: a measure that can help people make more choices of their own, because people are different and therefore also want to implement in their own way the way they retire, for example a little later or a little earlier. We need to see whether not only the supplementary pension, but also the AOW can play a role in this. D66 believes that this is sensible; that is in our electoral programme. I share the fundamental criticism of the Council of State in part. I support the idea of Mr Klein's direction, along with several other groups. My concern is in the measure. The AOW is a very large expenditure post, which is the primary source of income for many people, so that it requires great care. That's why a few more questions, starting with the Secretary of State. I assume that the investigation to which she refers is available on time so that during the formation parties can take advantage of it. It would be a shame if we received that report on the day on which a coalition agreement was agreed. Can she say anything more about the moment? Against Mr Klein: I had indeed hoped for a letter of amendment. Two things should be secured, starting with the sustainability of public finances. Because I find it really problematic that we are short half a billion euros each year in the current proposal. That's a big deal. Removing this in support of the reintegration of older jobseekers would not be the choice of D66; I would like to join Mr Kerstens of the PvdA. Furthermore, the sustainability is seriously deteriorated. My group believes that keeping public finances healthy in the longer term is important. As you know, my group attaches great importance to the financial soundness of proposals. I appeal to Mr Klein to look into that. All this follows from the choice between minus five years and plus five years. This choice has significant financial effects, but there is another effect. This means that the risk remains that people will get so much discount on their AOW that they will have insufficient income in the future. You always keep this risk. It is not possible to exclude 100%, but with this choice that risk is too great. I'm gonna think a little bit more about it with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u77	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author and the Secretary of State for all the first-term replies and, of course, for the initiative taken by Mr Klein to submit this proposal to the Chamber. I asked critical questions in the first term. In general, good answers have come to that. There are, of course, a number of concerns, but I think that the principle of freedom of choice is so important from this debate, and this discussion also shows that this is the most important and characteristic point of this proposal that I am inclined to submit a positive opinion to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u78	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank Mr Klein for his first-term reply. He explained the choices he advocated with this bill. In doing so, he removed some of the ambiguity that existed in the Chamber in the first term. But I think they also show how complex this subject is and how complicated it is with the proposal he has put forward. The short-term coverage must be resolved in the formation. When it comes to long-term sustainability and its effects, which are not minor, it is important to talk about them. In addition, there is a group that is the group that is most discussed in this discussion which is outside because they do not have sufficient supplementary pension. The solution to the major issue raised by the Council of State and by Mr Van Weyenberg, namely the risk of poverty, is actually being placed in the Cabinet. That's gonna have to be done through an AMvB. That's a lot of loose notes on such a big proposal. So why put this proposal to the vote now? Unlike the PVV Group, I have not been so convinced by Mr Klein's first term that I can present this with a positive opinion to my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u79	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the author and the Secretary of State for their first reply. Much has already been said about the purpose of this initiative, freedom of choice. Furthermore, work must pay after the AOW age. The VVD absolutely agrees with that. But we have also heard that it has a negative impact on the number of jobs. It costs 0.4% of employment. In addition, it accounts for a gap of 3 billion, cumulatively, in public finances. When I hear the Secretary of State, it's a long-term sustainability deficit of 1.4 to 2 billion. Those are really huge amounts of money, for which a lot of people have to pay a lot of tax to cough it up. This means that I have a very critical attitude towards this initiative and, above all, with regard to the impact that has been chosen here. I have one more question. In the first period, I also reacted critically to financial sustainability. At that time, the applicant indicated that he would still have an alternative credit transfer, separate from the CPB. I haven't heard about that now. I'd like to hear which one that is. He was talking about 480 million. I don't recognize that amount myself. I would also like to comment on the motion tabled by Mr Kerstens. I myself heard no difference between what the Secretary of State promised in the first term and this motion. If I can see that difference and its added value, I will give a positive advice to my group. But for the time being, I don't quite see that difference. Perhaps the Secretary of State could shed some light on that in her response to the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u80	Let me take a look at Mr Klein. He's requesting a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u81	I would like to give the floor to Mr Klein for his answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the political groups for their response and to the Secretary of State for her advice. The Secretary of State rightly refers to the Council of State. I believe that in our explanatory statement we have also discussed in detail the opinion of the Council of State. We say: in principle, we do not change the AOW as we currently have it. It is also a fair and solidarity system. It's just different from the AOW in 1957. And yes, the Council of State had a point there. We live in 2017 and not in 1957 and you can play on that. Time is open to innovation and innovation. Mr Ulenbelt of the SP, like Mr Kerstens, points to two problems. First of all, there is the question of how people can give meaning to their lives and the freedom of choice they have. That is one social question: do we give people freedom, give them a choice? The second discussion concerns a social problem: can people with heavy professions retire earlier? So are you solving a problem with regard to the heavy-duty professions? That is not the solution to this proposal. De Kerstens rightly points out in his explanatory statement the motion he has tabled in which he assumes a flexible AOW for everyone. This raises the specific question of the heavy professions. Mr Kerstens was right to point out the issues raised when the pension agreement was concluded in 2011. Yeah, that was a wide package, from different angles. The problem of the heavy professions also played a role in this. One of the questions was: when is a profession difficult? What one finds light, the other finds it heavy and what one finds heavy, the other finds it very light. That is a definition debate in which I absolutely did not want to end. I think this is a debate which must be fought between the social partners, so to speak. Trade unions and employers must work together to see how to deal with heavy-duty occupations. That is separate from the flexibility of the AOW. You can take the impact with you: you can allow the AOW of people with a heavy occupation to enter earlier if that is financially possible. Mr Heerma said: there are brackets on it. I believe that we have adequately indicated that the complexity requires proper legislation. That is, of course, the main issue. Both the VVD and D66 have indicated that they are in favour of this. I would also like to thank Mr De Graaf for his words on this subject. He said he was positive about the starting point of a flexible AOW, but he also pointed out that the Chamber is still facing two major problems at the moment. Firstly, there is the risk that people will not be fully aware of the consequences of this. That is why we have been asked: should you not reduce that five-year period to a two-year period? Secondly, the impact that this will have on public finances and employment has been called for. I will present to the House a letter of amendment in which I will deal explicitly with these two elements. This means (1) that we are going to shorten the deadline to two years, also in line with the electoral programme of the Labour Party, and (2) that we will explicitly indicate in the explanatory statement what the effects are. If you take three years off the cake, of course it has great effects on the shelf life. Of course, we're gonna have to check that out. We've already done the initial calculations, but we need to fine-tune this right now. We initially thought that we might be able to do this in a liberal way by means of a phased implementation, but that is not the issue. A letter of amendment will therefore follow in order to resolve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u83	I assume, then, that Mr Klein will amend the proposal in such a way that it will also have a positive impact on finances and sustainability. For my group, that would indeed give a sip of a drink. I would appreciate receiving a small credit transfer from the CPB. It may also come to us in a different form, but I am concerned that this has really been validated by our mathematician, so that we all know exactly where we stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u84	With regard to the coverage, you come back to another discussion. It has rightly been pointed out that you will need less reintegration proposals. One says: that's not a good idea; the other says: that's a good idea. I insist that there should be no bullshit in Parliament about how we are going to do that. In order to remove perhaps a misunderstanding with Mrs Schut about the amounts: I am talking about 480 million; 480 million a year is an average. This is the same as the 3 billion mentioned in the structural story up to 2024; 6x480 million is about 3 billion. So we talk about the same amounts all the time. I come to the question of whether this can be passed on by the CPB. It's possible. I myself had it passed on in the light of the Free Party's electoral programme. I will see if I can streamline things so that I can put that separately to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr Van Weyenberg, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u86	Of course, things are getting a different design now. If Mr Klein is prepared to move sufficiently on these deadlines, then I think he can make something that can have a positive effect on the budget in the short and long term, rather than undermining it. My group would welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u87	The puzzle of 480 million and 3 billion cumulatively is now solved. I asked for this because the author stated in the note on the basis of the report that he might come up with alternative calculations. I very much appreciate the fact that the author wishes to present a letter of amendment. Would he also like to look at the sustainability deficit that is being created in this context? It is not just about cumulative amounts, but also about how we keep the AOW sustainable for the long term. To this end, the increase in the AOW age has begun.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u88	I think this contribution by the VVD, by Mrs Schut, is very constructive and good. I would like them to be included in the explanatory statement which we are undoubtedly going to have to give on the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u89	This means that a letter of amendment will come from you and that the Chamber will not vote on it next week, but at a time to be determined. There may also be a need for further discussion. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment to answer the questions put to her and to give her an opinion on the motion tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion. Does it or does it not have added value in relation to the research assignment that we have formulated? I read the motion in such a way that, of course, it is in line with that mission, but it also specifically states that a more specific regulation should be considered: would there still be added value? So I'll just leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether the results of the study would be available for formation. We're almost done with the procurement process. I think the results will be available at least before the summer recess. I do not know exactly how long the formation will last, but one should still be able to take advantage of it. Moreover, a coalition agreement must always be worked out. Of course, that's what you need this for. I note that the author, Mr Klein, is going to send a letter of amendment. Of course, he also provides the financial picture. He is right to say that coverage is, of course, political in nature. The Chamber can imagine that also for the cabinet that coverage is a point of attention. I would like to say once again that this does not mean that this solution also helps a limited number of Dutch people in the flexibilisation of two years prior to the AOW-right age or after reaching the AOW-right age. Those Dutch people already have the flexibility of their second pillar pension. So I wonder whether it is indeed appropriate, because the big problem lies with the Dutch who do not or hardly have a second pillar pension. In short: I must say that it may be very worthwhile to wait for the results of the research and then to see in one smooth motion how to flex our AOW. After all, our AOW is really a basic provision for everyone, for all the elderly. It has to stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u91	I almost wanted to conclude, but this still leads to a question from Mr Ulenbelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u92	Because there will be a letter of amendment, which has not been written in a week, because it is to be reckoned with, the Christmas motion will not be put to the vote for the time being. Isn't it a good idea to at least hold the motion? I think it's even better to move in. Or maybe the Secretary of State can take over the motion. The motion will not be put to the vote for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u93	If the Secretary of State makes use of her ability to take over the motion I do not need to put the motion to the vote and then the investigation can continue, including that for me important supplement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u94	I believe that this is indeed the right step for the process. I'll take over the motion with love.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u95	The Christmas Movement (, No ) has been taken over.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u96	I would like to thank Mr Klein for presenting and defending his proposal. Thank you, of course, for his support: Mrs Hamelink, Mr Tielen and Mrs Bangert. As has been said, there will be a letter of amendment. This means that we will come back later on to this proposal to amend the General Age Law and the Participation Act on the introduction of the possibility of introducing the AOW old age pension in whole or in part earlier or later. I thank everyone for being here, including the Secretary of State and her support staff. Mr Van Weyenberg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u97	I think the chance of a third term is real.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-25-tweedekamer-4.u98	Sure, that's what I said.
