ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. Last year our Prime Minister said at the national climate summit that we are going to do everything we can here in the Netherlands to stay well below 2°C global warming. Promise makes you guilty. The CBS reported last year: hurray, greenhouse gas emissions have fallen while the economy has grown; that is just as good news. Yeah, in the fairy tale book of accounting models, it turns out. It turned out to be an alternative reality. The government says that methane emissions, one of the most dangerous greenhouse gases, have fallen by 42% compared to 1990. But if you're actually gonna measure it, it turns out to be only 20%. That is very annoying and has great consequences. Methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas, much stronger than CO. This reality, shown by the measurements, which is very different from the calculation models on which the Dutch government has so far based itself, has a major impact on our objectives to stay within the 2°C objectives of Paris. We are concerned that a spokesman from the State Secretary's Ministry has already said: this does not really matter, this does not constitute an obstacle, we stick to the calculation models and this has no impact on the Dutch climate policy. The Party for Animals thinks that is very unwise. Is the Secretary of State prepared to acknowledge that all these years we have taken too low a figure when it comes to methane emissions? Is it prepared to take steps to report more honestly on this in future? Does she agree with the Animal Party that methane emissions should be controlled, otherwise we will not achieve the climate targets? What steps does it intend to take to bring the specific methane sectors, not only the gas industry, but also the livestock industry, the dairy herd and the goat population, within the standards that we will have to respect if we really want to keep the climate under control?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mrs Ouwehand very much for her questions. She started by saying that the Prime Minister said at the national climate summit that we must do everything we can to keep our contribution below 2°C. I want to underline that, of course, I have organised that national climate summit again in this house. That's incredibly important. I also agree with all those who say that we need to know exactly where the task and the task lie. Methane emissions are calculated by RIVM. This is done on the basis of international agreements, in this case within the framework of the UN Institute dealing with climate change, i.e. the IPCC. When actual measurements show that the models are sometimes incorrect, they must of course be checked. In the end, the models will also have to be changed. For this reason, we have indeed notified this situation, in which practical measurements show that methane emissions are indeed higher than the models assume. It must now be checked in the scientific circuit. There's a lot of reasons for that. We need to know what is causing this and which sectors are responsible for it. This may indeed mean that the task for the Netherlands, but also for other European countries where this phenomenon sometimes appears, is simply increasing. However, we must do it according to the rules of the game we have made with each other. So we have not been careful about this and have not denied it. I don't think that's a good idea. We shall soon be able to agree on this. We'll have to double-check the readings. That should also be international. Then we must also look at the consequences and the sectors that are causing them. If this leads to changes in models internationally, we could then also see that this sometimes leads to a greater challenge. I'm not running away from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	In itself, the Secretary of State is taking a number of steps within the rules of the game, but the problem is that we are being warned that we are very much behind the facts. This is evident from investigative journalism, for example this article by The Correspondent. We have calculations. On the basis of these calculations, we are pursuing a certain climate policy. We can't mess with that. Climate change is really very serious. The actual measurements show that we need to do more. We can do two things. Or we're going to change the models over a period of years, so that in the long term our analyses are based on reality. Whether we start from the measurements, apply the precautionary principle and conclude that there is a greater challenge for gas production, for example, where there are structural methane leaks, and that the growth of the dairy herd and goat farming could be irresponsible, given the climate objectives. The Secretary of State can also, of course, follow the process of international validation, but we cannot sit back and wait for the models to fit in with reality, which is already known.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	I think two things are true at the same time. First of all, we can't wait. That's just true. This means that we should simply take steps for all sectors outside the ETS, including agriculture and mobility, and we should do so now. If we wait too long, we will not achieve the objective. But let's look at this particular situation. Methane is indeed a complicated greenhouse gas. It's one of the only ones we know is diffuse. It is responsible for about one tenth of total emissions. That's what we're talking about. In practice, we now measure more emissions than we see in the models. In order to know exactly where to act, which sector, as it were, should run faster, we need to know who is responsible. Mrs Ouwehand mentioned a few options, but the study does not yet show exactly which sector is the cause. I think that is relevant in order to take further steps in the end. If it's livestock, that's a fact. But if it also arises, for example, because we have a lot of peat meadows, then that is also a fact. We need to know if we're gonna be able to act exactly. I therefore share Mrs Ouwehand's sense of urgency. I also believe that models and calculations should be aligned as much as possible. We are. We have done so on several occasions on this issue. But we must remain precise, otherwise we will make mistakes and then literally lose the support for climate policy. We shouldn't have that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Secretary of State makes a valid point in itself, but she does go to hell when you realize that the policy is already based on wobbly information. And so, I would think, that is an additional argument for arguing that we should apply the precautionary principle in particular when it comes to climate policy. It's not new that the dairy herd and the goat pile emit methane. You can say, as a precaution, that at least we should not let these sectors explode. If you know that there is structural methane leaks throughout the gas process, you can also take steps in this respect from the precautionary principle. The Secretary of State cannot insist that she has no urgency in her calculations to do so. So I'd like a commitment from her. What will be its concrete action in relation to the measurement data?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	Again, that urgency is there. All those sectors you mention will have to take steps on the basis of the current models alone. Sometimes I think that these steps are much bigger than many people realize at the moment. So that will require a huge effort from livestock farming, in the field of mobility, really all over. At the same time, if you see these kinds of calculations and see that there is therefore a difference between what we actually perceive in emissions and what the models show, then you must also want to know where this difference is explained by law in order to be precise in your answer to them. That's really necessary. That does not stop me from continuing to negotiate within Europe and, in the Netherlands, with you on what to do in all these sectors. Because those steps are coming and some of them are already being taken. We're not going to dive at that point. You are absolutely right about that. We acknowledge that it is. But I also want to be scientifically responsible for what it's because of. Then we can decide here again which steps should be taken. I also recognise that in practice this can lead to a greater challenge than we now think. That's important, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Given the scale of the climate problem and the seriousness of the situation, our question is what steps the government is going to take to ensure that real methane emissions are known in the future. It is clear that there is now a discrepancy between the measurements and the models. But how are we going to ensure that we do not end up in the same kind of situation where the measurements are actually much more alarming than the models show? And to what extent are the data on emissions of other greenhouse gases accurate? So what does this actually say about the whole methodology?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	I'm not a scientist. I'll leave this to you, just like you probably do, so I'll just be briefed by the experts. What they say is that methane in particular is a difficult greenhouse gas. Recently, in the case of landfill emissions, we have had to rely on the reduction of emissions, in this case, until 1990 because we had estimated them to be higher than in practice. We do that all the time, but we do do that scientifically validated. It is important to continue to measure, including at European level, and also to call the IPCC when we think their models can be improved. That is our task as the Netherlands. There has, of course, also recently been discussion about whether we will continue to measure. There was concern about that. I think it is important, for my part too, to say that we should continue to do so. We have solved that financially this year. We also talk to interested parties about the coming years. Of course, it is also partly up to a new cabinet to take responsibility there. But I would know: I would.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	With these last words, the Secretary of State is actually asking me the question. Because I do remember that we spoke about the subsidy for Cabauw, which was under discussion. It is good to hear that this has been done and that there is hope for the coming years. Let me then put my question on another point. Several sectors need to intervene. They're all gonna have to intervene hard. This is already apparent from the models, and the interventions will only get stronger when we know what the real measurements are.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	How is the cabinet going to help the various sectors? When will the real readings be known? Will the cabinet stand alongside the sectors to see what steps need to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's a very broad question. We could almost have a separate discussion about that. What we are doing at European level is to agree on which part of the task the Netherlands is taking on. What that means is that we are moving on to the different sectors. What does that mean for livestock? What does that mean for mobility? This includes, of course, a plan of action. I assume that this will continue to be the case in the future, but the point on the horizon is clear. This is the percentage and we have to meet it. The Netherlands has several moments to discuss this, especially at European level, but also in the Chamber. I remember Mr Dijkstra asking me about this on a regular basis. How do we ensure that this is discussed with the Chamber? At any time when that is the issue, we will do so. That will be quick, because the negotiations are currently under way. This means that at some point I come to you with a proposal for the different sectors. It is then up to the Chamber to decide whether it thinks that is a fair proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	It is very important for the climate policy and the measures to be taken for all sectors that the figures on which they are based are correct. I can imagine something about the steps the Secretary of State wants to take to get the figures, or at least the models, right, but I am not entirely sure. When does the Secretary of State think it can provide the Chamber with the correct figures on the basis of which action can be discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	This is a little too much honor, isn't it? I'm not the one making the numbers. In the end, this is what the IPCC does in the UN context. I'd like to put it the other way around. The fact that we in the Netherlands measure and find that there is a difference between the model and reality is of great value. This means that we are raising this issue internationally and that we are saying to the organisation that ultimately decides worldwide in the UN what the models look like: hey, guys, pay attention, because something might happen here that is not entirely in line with reality. What we are doing in the Netherlands is also making the models accurate over and over again. It's not like there's ever gonna be one final model. Science moves on, and sometimes we just know more. This is reflected in the changes in the models. The important thing is that once we have the knowledge, we don't put her away or deny her, but we make sure she gets to where she needs to be, so we can do something with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	This is your second supplementary question, Mr De Groot. There are two questions for each group; you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you. I understand the approach, but I still think that we will be a few years further before the models are changed. That's how it goes. That is why I am asking the Secretary of State if, perhaps by means of additional research, she can see what a proxy would be for the correct figures, so that the discussions can take place here. Can it consider whether the measurements can be intensified or whether other research data can be summarised? Can she ask RIVM, for example, to look only at this newspaper article a little deeper to get more information on that basis than we have now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	I think it is very important, like Mr De Groot, for us to measure what we know is that we can influence the international debate and that we can weigh it up. I myself am very curious about the question of what is going on in the Netherlands, and I understand that this also applies to the Benelux countries, which is the cause of the fact that we have higher methane emissions than the models show. If we know that, we can present that information internationally, which hopefully will allow the models to be brought to reality more quickly. But I would like to say one more thing here: everything seems to be under discussion, but it is not. This is about a tenth of the emissions and we are doing worse than expected according to measurements. This does not mean that all greenhouse gases are covered by all calculations. We have to say that to each other, because if you leave any doubt about that, you're going to support those who I'm going to look at a particular subject that still think there's no climate problem at all. There is even a wave coming out of that box; I see that as a confirmation. Climate deniers are only really damaging the next generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	That was a little entrapment. Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	What the Secretary of State sketches is all true, and we know it...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	... and we attach great importance to the international discussion on the calculations, measurements and IPCC opinions of groups of experts. However, it is also a question of making policies in the meantime. If the Secretary of State comes up with a plan with the task for the different sectors, what will that be based on? Wouldn't it be a terrible shame to have to conclude in a few years' time that your assignments should have been bigger?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	Let me make a prediction: we are going to run into that in the coming years anyway. Because if the international community decides in 2018 that we should not be below 2°C but below 1.5°C, this will also have an impact on the tasks of Europe and therefore of the Netherlands. In fact, the whole foundation of the Paris agreement is that you can adjust the route during the journey. So I do not see that as a problem. It is, of course, difficult in some cases, but on the basis of the current models, all the sectors that cause the methane gases will have to go to great lengths anyway. And there's no alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	I agree with the Secretary of State, too, but the question remains when to adjust. Does the Secretary of State consider that you should do so only when the international IPCC models have been adapted to the modified measurements? Or does the Commission intend to take account of what has now come to the surface of these sectors in its plan? What's that plan gonna be later? Is that included or is the Netherlands really waiting for that adaptation of the IPCC models?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	I am not so much concerned with the model as it is, of course, important because it is a global leader for all countries. So the Netherlands cannot decide on its own that it is different. Much more fundamental, I think you really need to know where the difference is. This allows you to define which step you need to take. Is that a step in one sector or another or in all sectors? To know that, we need more data than the data there is. The research does not say anything about this now with 100% scientific guarantee. You never get 100% guarantee in science anyway, but more than what is now there really has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	A major, ambitious revolution is needed to achieve the climate agreement. It is unclear to me how waiting for models to be scientifically adapted will lead to the revolution that is needed. What specific no-regret measures does the Secretary of State intend to take in the meantime in order to keep that 1.5°C in real sight? That is what was agreed in Paris. One of these measures is the purer handling of sludge and dredging by Rijkswaterstaat.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	A few corrections: in Paris it was agreed that we should remain below 2°C and that we should decide in the coming period whether we should take another step. Another point is that we are already taking huge steps on the basis of the current challenge, with targets for 2020 and for 2040. So the picture that I would do nothing with all these sectors in anticipation of one model is completely out of the question. The reality is that we will fundamentally review all sectors in our economy, all without exception. The discussion is about whether, on the basis of these models, new steps may be needed on one subject and, if so, which sector is responsible for this and what step. But the thought that until then we're doing nothing is wrong. We can't, because we don't have time to waste. I told you those plans are already coming to the Chamber. I'm counting on your support.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you.
