ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u1	I would like to welcome the initiators, who are also named by their first name today. They are supported by Mr Botman, on behalf of the CDA Group, Mr Bosse, on behalf of the PvdA Group and Mrs Wolfram, on behalf of the Ministry of Security and Justice. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of the bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The response is expected to take place in plenary next week. I would now like to address Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA Group as the first speaker in the absence of Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u2	Mr. Chairman. I hope you will make it clear to Mr Graus that I have not been forced to do so. I would like to congratulate the initiators and their staff on making this initiative legislative proposal. There is a lot of work to be done in drafting a legislative proposal; my appreciation for this. I would also like to congratulate you on the fact that the draft law has received a blank opinion from the Council of State. I have been told that this is not very common with an initiative proposal. That makes it special. The bill is in line with the CDA's desire to achieve a fair economy. It is worrying to note that the power of certain companies is being abused on several fronts. Take the purchasing power of the supermarket industry. In my own initiative paper A fair sandwich this also comes out. It is good to see that proposals have been made in this area in the Chamber. They must lead to improvement. The CDA welcomes the joint initiatives taken by the Chamber for a fair economy. Small and medium-sized enterprises must be given fair opportunities. This does not include the fact that large-scale businesses are shifting financial burdens over the back of SMEs andzzp'ers because they see opportunities to improve on their own. The CDA therefore welcomes this bill. It takes steps towards a fair economy. It cannot be explained that small suppliers come into financial difficulties while they themselves have properly delivered a product or service to a large company in time. A healthy economy includes sound payment periods, no payment periods of 90 and 120 days. The CDA is also pleased to see that this bill has been created because of persistent signals from society. Entrepreneurs themselves raised the problem in politics. Because of these persistent signals, my colleagues Mulder and Omtzigt have already written an initiative paper at the beginning of 2015. Other political parties have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to this problem. During the hearing in the Lower House it became clear once again that many small suppliers suffer from long payment periods and that a solution is desirable. The proposal to amend the law resulting from the own-initiative paper was therefore adopted by a large majority in the House of Representatives at the beginning of last year. It has therefore surprised the CDA that the Minister for Economic Affairs refused to implement this motion. Does the Minister agree with the CDA Group that the legislative proposal could boost ongoing self-regulation initiatives rather than hinder them? Unfortunately, self-regulation alone is not enough. On the website payme.nu you can read that this initiative has had 34 participants since December 2016. The Netherlands has about 2,840 large companies, according to CBS figures. Only about 1.2% of large companies have therefore joined the initiative. This is while the press has written several times about paymentme.nu and SME-Netherlands has registered large companies to join. Even if all large companies voluntarily decided not to impose more than 60 days on SMEs, SMEs remain dependent on the free will of large companies to continue to do so in the future. The CDA is curious whether the Minister sees this as a necessary complement to self-regulation in order to protect small suppliers. I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Then some questions to the initiators. Firstly, the CDA Group would like to hear from the initiators whether they can confirm that this law applies only to trade relations in which large companies play the role of customer and SMEs and the role of supplier or service provider. The CDA Group is also curious whether the initiators expect all large companies to comply with this law. The CDA Group also has a question on enforcement. Should certain large companies still decide to break the law, the initiators expect small suppliers to go to court and, if so, why? We are also curious about the transitional period of one year after which the law will also apply to existing contracts. Could the initiators indicate whether this period is real? Finally. The CDA Group believes it is important that companies in the Netherlands become aware of this legislative change. This increases the chance that companies will comply with the law. That is why we call on the initiators and the government to use the existing channels to communicate about the new law, assuming that it will be adopted, and also the call on business organisations to do so themselves. Mr. Chairman. So much for the first term of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u3	I would ask Mr Ziengs to take Mrs Gesthuizen's place, probably not as regards the content of the speech, but speaking on behalf of his own group, that of the VVD, because Mrs Gesthuizen will be joining this debate a little later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u4	Mr. Chairman. Today, the legislative proposal for Members of the European Parliament is before us in this case, Agnes Mulder, because of course the VVD also has a member of Mulder and Mei Li Vos to stop the use of unfairly long payment periods by companies with more than 250 employees. What a pleasure it is when you have a company that sells something or offers a service and where the account is paid immediately after delivery or performance is delivered. No debtors, no debtor administration, no obligor risk and no pre-financing. Reality is just different. Often goods or services are delivered after which an invoice follows. An agreement has been made between the supplier and the buyer within the time limit for payment. In many cases it also goes according to agreement, but it also happens that the payment period is stretched; leaning a little heavier on creditors, in good commercial jargon. But if you have a not too big company with average funding or if you are a vp'er then the pain in your belly can play well if you have to wait a long time for your money. The government also had a hand in late payment of invoices. Targeted policies, including the VVD, have effectively reduced these deadlines. Maybe we can do better than that. There is another debate on this, because it is really not normal that as a government you do not pay bills on time. The directive from Europe, which was implemented not so long ago and which set maximum deadlines of up to 60 days, with a number of conditions, had the effect that precisely the deadlines seemed to be stretched in trade. And that's an effect you don't want. SME-Netherlands but also LTO Netherlands are calling for attention to be given to this. Also the signals from suppliers that they did not use the possibilities offered by this law because they were afraid of losing their customers, made the VVD look at the proposal. We should not create legislation that is not workable, was a first reaction, but gradually reading through the proposal, a feeling is emerging: we simply want entrepreneurs to receive their money in time. And then there are the signals from the self-employed in construction, the zp'ers, the SMEs or the suppliers of agricultural products from whom you cannot expect them to take on a large part of the financing that should be regulated by the larger customers at banks. You have to take these signals very seriously. However, there were also signs from companies including smaller companies, which have difficulty with the proposal. The Dutch Retail Council warns against the assumption that there is never a mutual benefit in payment periods longer than 60 days and gives examples. Do the initiators see the possibility of allowing the specific group mentioned, after all, the extended deadlines? LTO Netherlands points to the level playing field in Europe. The proposal of the initiators is, after all, putting a stop to European regulation. I would like to hear from the initiators whether they expect any adverse effects from this. Do they also see the danger that large companies, for their purchases, are migrating to the countries around us, which do not have to comply with this Dutch rule? Is the problem outlined only a Dutch problem, or is it also taking place at European level? If so, do the initiators see opportunities to tackle this problem at European level? I have some additional questions on the explanatory statement. The initiators write that they want to make it easier for suppliers to unite and thus collectively make a corridor to the judge. Has this actually been investigated or tested? The initiators also write that the assumption that the average payment period would deteriorate is unfounded. Has that been further examined or tested? Furthermore, consultation would indicate that restriction of contract freedom is hardly seen as a problem. Who said this? How many parties have said this? What parties do see it as a problem? The ACM says to keep following the bill to give a substantive response later. The VVD Group would like, if this bill were to succeed, to monitor the effects of the law and to ask the ACM to provide input on the effects of the law after a year. Are the applicants prepared to accept this request? Let us be very clear: we will vote in favour of the law, even if it is to provide a relatively small percentage of entrepreneurs with the comfort of getting their bills paid on time by large companies. If it is true that it is precisely the entrepreneurs who ultimately suffer from this, then it will have to be assessed how this can be overcome, because paying bills on time is quite normal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and in particular their support for this initiative legislative proposal. I know from my own experience that this is a considerable blow, because there is a lot of detail to be worked out and answers to the Chamber prepared and given. The initiators and their support have succeeded. The Council of State gives a blank opinion, as Mr Geurts pointed out. This does not happen every day, especially in the case of a bill in which you can recognize both advantages and disadvantages, as Mr Ziengs just recalled. The PvdA Group is co-initiator of this bill. It will therefore not be surprising that my group wholeheartedly supports the proposal. That's based on a moral ground: do you hang out nicely, pay your bills on time? The policy of large companies has been to pay as late as possible. This was mainly set in motion at the end of the 1990s, at the beginning of the 1990s. Quarterly figures and profit figures had to be reported and entire cash is king programmes were carried out by large companies. It was really sent on. There was simply a deliberate policy to pay as late as possible to strengthen the cash position and the interest rate that is now low, but was still high at that time to max out. The market power that large companies have in relation to what smaller companies have been exploited to the maximum, to the extent unreasonable. There is simply legislation setting a reasonable time limit. That period is, in principle, 30 days and may be extended to 60 days. In exceptional cases, you could agree on an even longer term. But that wasn't what happened. Large companies, also large Dutch companies that we should be proud of, such as Philips and Nutricia, have paid deliberately only after 90 days. By using such a payment period, you put SMEs andzzp'ers, who also make more and more their living in the Netherlands, in trouble. This is not based on individual customization, but that is conscious policy: we pay all these bills too late. That has to end. That's what this bill is for. As Mr Geurts said, the bill does not fall out of the sky either. Motions have been tabled in the Chamber and initiatives have been taken by companies themselves, but they only get a little follow-up. In the long run, you have to say you don't agree with this. If you have bought something that has already been delivered and for which an invoice has been sent, it must also be paid at some point. Then a period of 30 days is a very reasonable time. A 60-day term is really the most reasonable. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats therefore considers it right that a sanction should follow and that it should be annulled. In addition to a practical reason, there is also a moral reason. How do you deal with each other? Just pay your invoices on time. Mr Ziengs has experience with this. He expressed the feeling that as an entrepreneur you have if your invoice is just paid neatly after you have delivered your service or product neatly. You're acting normal. The big business in the Netherlands deliberately did not want to be normal. This is the purpose of this law. I still have a number of questions, which mainly concern enforcement. It is often said that people can go to court. All the groups have asked whether this is going to happen and what it is actually worth in material terms. My own question is as follows. If a large company insists on late payment, for example after 90 days, shouldn't it become normal practice for an account to be sent from the commercial interest rate of about 8% for two months? That seems to me to be the logical course. They're entitled to it, and they've been paid late. With an invoice of €1,000 you simply send an invoice of €80. That amount must, of course, be divided by the number of months. I can see Mr Ziengs thinking he's going to be a bacon buyer! No, you will send a bill of a sixth of €80. If it is €10,000, you send a bill of a sixth of €800. That'll tickle. That seems to me to be the most common method. You are entitled to it, the commercial interest has to be reimbursed, the bill is sent and it has to be paid. You don't have to go to court for that at all; it just needs to be done. That also seems to me to be the easiest enforceable form. Or am I wrong about that? The second question is also about enforcement and concerns the Authority Consumer & Market. I understand that in principle this authority is not going to assess all contracts at individual level. Suppose, however, it is conscious policy of a large enterprise. The payment policy is simply an administrative decision. The board determines the ambition to pay and the average payment period. The ACM supervises the abuse of power vis-à-vis other undertakings and the formation of cartels. If this happens consciously, is there no role for the ACM? The third question on enforcement concerns the annual report. What if companies don't comply with the law? If this law is passed by the Chambers, it's just a hard law. To what extent will it be reported? I can imagine that it could also play a role in large companies, perhaps even more than the financial incentive of late payment, if they have to report that they do not comply with the law. My final question is addressed to the Minister. He didn't want to carry out a motion that called for this to happen. When I hear it like that, there will be a broad majority for this bill. The VVD Group saw disadvantages, but nevertheless indicated that the benefits outweighed and that it would agree with them. Is the Minister prepared to sign the law and direct it to the Supreme Court, as well as to set up a follow-up course? Once again, I would like to congratulate you on this initiative. That's what the Chamber is for, because we're co-legislators. I wholeheartedly support and wish the proposers good luck with the first-term defence, which I assume will take place next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u6	Thank you very much, Mr Nijboer. In the context of 'just in time', I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Gesthuizen, who speaks on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u7	I once learned from my English teacher that it's "just on time" or "right on time," chairman. Mr. Chairman. It's nice to see these two esteemed colleagues in box K. It's two busy bees, if I may put it that way. This certainly applies to Mrs Mulder, from whose hands one initiative law or note comes after another. They're gonna kill us! She, together with Mrs Mei Li Vos of the Labour Party, now has a subject at the head which has certainly been of considerable concern to the House since the outbreak of the financial crisis in 2007-2008. If we weren't talking about governments that didn't pay their bills on time, we were talking about companies that didn't pay their bills on time. In particular, it was the large company, which turns its necks around the little self-employed, gets the skin over the nose, squeezes it out, wrings it out, you name it. By the way, we heard the story from both sides. I have spoken to a number of people myself, but there have also been several round tables highlighting the problem from different sides. This is also the way it has been done in the preparation of this law. I am speaking for myself: we have received information from various quarters and I understand that there is also some criticism in addition to applause and applause. Now, I think it is quite clear that SMEs regularly have to wait far too long for their money and that they are actually playing for companies without being able to get a refund. I think it, once again, is very good that this is being picked up by the initiators. They have opted for a maximum payment period of 60 days and the legal commercial interest rate when a large company is above 60 days. The only possibility they have for that is the judge right now. We have already been able to ask questions about this once, but one question remained open. To what extent is the legal process already used by SMEs if a company exceeds the payment deadline? That seems to me to be a very good indicator of how much the effect of this law will be. We welcome the fact that companies can collectively claim the legal commercial interest rate, which makes them stronger, and that they can do so for up to five years after the start of the claim. We do not believe that the argument put forward by the proposers that large companies will, after a long period of time, receive a strong claim of unincorporated legal commercial interest and will therefore change their behaviour. That's why we're positive about the bill. However, the lack of opportunities for SMEs to exercise their rights outside the courts is a little worrying. For us there is also the sting of this debate. We understand that a public service such as that in France, which independently controls and awards fines, does not seem to be particularly effective and quite expensive so far. Yet this too is a form of abuse of power by companies, as we are discussing it today. As far as I am concerned, this is certainly linked to the purchasing power that we have discussed very often here. How do the proposers view this when the ACM, the Authority Consumer & Market, has a role in it, so that a low-threshold method is put in place to report over-the-counter payment periods? The ACM can then collect complaints about companies, conduct research and possibly fine these companies. Although this does not give individual SMEs the legal commercial interest rate, it does have a disciplined effect. And in the end we are looking for a change in the behaviour of the large customers. Finally. I was a little late, I apologize for that, I had a farewell to a very valued employee. Sometimes you have to give that a priority. I assume that the question has been raised here a few times this evening: I would like to know from the authors how they are now responding to the ongoing criticism from the SME sector itself, from industry associations that say that this is not helping enough and see more in other already existing initiatives. Some also say: be careful not to throw away the baby with the bath water with this initiative bill and make sure that the 30-day payment period, which they believe many companies would like to comply with, is replaced by 60 days, because hey, it's gonna be in the law soon, then we can take those 60 days as well. I am very curious about the reaction of the authors to this criticism, because it was quite firm. I will have to take that into account when I finalize my assessment of this initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Gesthuizen. I can inform the Chamber that Mr Graus just has also arrived in time. He will now speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u9	Mr. Chairman. I don't think that's very neat, I have to tell you honestly. Look, I came here early this morning, I've had guests all day and had to attend all kinds of activities, and then our schedule just gets moved up 45 minutes, by mail. I can't!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u10	Mr. Graus...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u11	I receive hundreds of e-mails a day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u12	Mr Graus, you've been in this room for a long time. If you start like this, I'll explain to you one more time how it works here, one more time. We have a schedule. This plenary session is leading. You can have as many visitors as you like, everyone here has a program. The meeting is leading. A schedule will be sent around in time. We've been trying to reach you since 7:15 p.m. by phone and text. It is your responsibility to be here on time, not ours. You can now speak and make your contribution, if the Chamber agrees, and I assume she will. Then I would ask you to begin your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u13	Mr President, I reacted immediately at 7.15 p.m., but I still had an appointment. Eight o'clock is eight o'clock! Leave is okay, but if you want to move forward, you either have to call or text. I receive hundreds of e-mails a day, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u14	If you continue to engage in the discussion, I will take the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u15	I've been playing with this for ten years, and I've never seen this before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u16	I can tell you that I have been here for so long and that this is a regular occurrence here. It is your responsibility to arrive on time, Mr Graus. That's not our responsibility. It was communicated in good time. You will now have the floor if you are going to keep your input. If you are going to make any more problems about this procedure, I really refer you to the procedural meeting, but you are not doing so in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u17	If something gets premature, you'll have to be informed personally, and in time, not at 7:15 p.m., when it starts. First of all, I would like to thank the authors for all the work and congratulate them on the initiative legislative proposal. I must also correct something with Mr Ziengs. Mr Kamp, the Minister for Economic Affairs, knows that. In 2013, I said that is something other than what the ladies here have done that the municipalities, the local authorities, do not pay on time. In fact, I was sitting next to the Minister at a committee meeting. The Minister denied that this was the case at the time. He later came to the plenary room with a schedule, which showed that in so many municipalities there was a correct payment. I didn't agree to that. I asked him to look into that. In Landgraaf... you are also from Limburg... a company went bankrupt because local authorities did not pay on time. I have, of course, followed the debate during a conversation I had, a very important one, and you will find that out. Mr Ziengs just said: okay, this is VVD policy. That's right. But who was the driver of encouraging these local authorities to make timely payments? That was the PVV. In fact, the VVD strongly denied that that's the story. But let's get back to this initiative paper. These are indeed large companies. Of course, there's no one to object to that. When I read the note, it was a former own-initiative paper on unreasonable payment deadlines and I immediately advised my group to support this proposal. I have very few critical questions about it. It is a sympathetic proposal that no one in this Chamber can oppose. However, I have to say honestly, not because it is election time, that I have asked farmers, gardeners and fishermen for a better income model. It does not concern SMEs and large companies. That includes the timely payments. A motion for a resolution has been adopted on this matter. This is going much wider. We shall therefore be in favour of this at all times. In 2014, I tabled a motion (32637, no. 129) to protect entrepreneurs from the dispaying municipalities. I'm not saying it's an underwater sting, but that motion wasn't supported by the CDA at the time. That motion was actually defeated by the government because it appeared that only 1.3% of all payments are subject to a payment period of more than 60 days. However, I would have liked to have had a response from the Minister to the question of how he is now and what is the situation with the municipalities. Since I have very few questions to the proposers, I would like to take this into account. For us, the recovery of penalty interest remains a major problem. There are already legal means, but hardly any use is made of them. My colleague from the PvdA mentioned it as well. The reason for this is that the recovery of interest may distort the relationship with a customer, which makes the small supplier afraid of missing future orders. In addition, there is a great deal of cost involved. I know that myself, because I've been a little entrepreneur myself. I know that some great entrepreneurs even say: start a process. You know this doesn't even pay for small amounts. What could possibly be done about this? I am considering tabling a motion calling on the government to impose a payment period of up to 30 days on contracts between governments andzzp'ers and SMEs, but we will see whether that is necessary at all. I would also like to wish you a blessed evening, Mr President, even though I do not think you were in the right place this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u18	I heard in Mr Graus's speech that the CDA had not supported a motion by Mr Graus of the PVV Group. Perhaps Mr Graus could give me the number of that motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u19	I think I just read that song. That's what the Acts say. It's about the motion in part No. 128 (32637). I would like to say to Mr Geurts that this motion is not so much concerned with this initiative paper. This motion is more about dispaying municipalities. The request in the motion is to protect entrepreneurs from dispaying municipalities. If I may just say that to Mr Geurts, Mr President, it is possible that this may happen because the Minister denied at the time that the municipalities in the Netherlands are bad payers. That was completely denied. So it may well be that Members of Parliament thought at that time: then I am not going to support this motion. But after that it turned out different. That's because I've asked: go check it out, get a picture of it. I have indeed asked for this with the support of the VVD Group; I have to give that to Mr Ziengs honestly. But we have often been the driving force, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-31-tweedekamer-24.u20	This brought an end to the first term on the part of the Chamber. It is expected, as I have already indicated, that the response will be scheduled in plenary next week, but especially for Mr Graus: be careful when that happens; that date is not yet known. I thank the initiators and their support as well as the Minister for Economic Affairs for their arrival.
