ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u1	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday, the NRC stated that the Dutch Research Council for Security (OVV) was targeted by a Russian attempt at hacking on 29 September 2015. This spear-phishing attack took place two weeks before the OVV report on the MH17 disaster was published, a crucial moment, because the Russians wanted to know what was in that report. This was already known, but this hacking attempt now appears to be exemplary for Russia's constant, repeated attempts to frustrate the investigation into the circumstances of this disaster. This hacking attempt was identical to how the Russians managed to hack the Democratic Party convention in the United States, the DNC. Luckily, unlike the American DNC, this attempt failed. This was due to the attention of the relevant OVV employee. Nevertheless, the president of the OVV, Mr Tjibbe Joustra, stressed in NRC that understatement is dangerous. He literally said: too many Dutch governments think "that hacking, that doesn't go so fast." This while Russia is increasingly aggressive in influencing foreign discussions, among other things the intelligence services in Germany and France. I therefore have the following questions to the Minister for Security and Justice with retroactive effect about this news report on the situation in 2015. On 23 October 2015, the NOS already wrote about Operation Pawn Storm and attempts to hack the OVV. Is the Trend Micro report of January 2016 about the same hack attack that NRC wrote about this weekend? Or have there been multiple hack attacks?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u3	What does "OVV" stand for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u4	The Security Research Council. I just mentioned the abbreviation, Mr President, when you weren't here. How does the Minister assess that the OVV hack took place almost in the same way as the Russian hackers hacked the American Democratic Party according to the U.S. intelligence services? According to the Cabinet, the West has become a structural target of the Russians?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u5	Then I would like to give the floor to the Minister of Security and Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mr Verhoeven for asking these questions. He is right to say that the news that gave rise to his questions is well known. In my opinion, the Research Council for Security itself announced in 2015 that an attempt had been made to enter its computers. I understand from the Security Research Council that this attempt was not successful at the time. In June 2016, the NOS brought news in this area, namely that the German intelligence service would have said that the Russians were behind it. The same German intelligence service said in the same article of 9 June 2016 that it has no evidence of that. As far as I know, the Security Research Council never confirmed that he knew who would have been behind the attempt to access his computers. I know, however, that the Research Council noted that it recently increased the security of its computers because the Research Council took into account the possibility of trying to get into its computers. Mr Verhoeven's questions about what I think about them are difficult for me to answer, because, of course, as Minister of Security and Justice, I do not deal with the activities of countries other than the Netherlands. That is the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who is responsible for the intelligence services, or the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is responsible for relations with abroad. However, I can say that I fully agree with Mr Joustra, quoted by Mr Verhoeven, who says that underestimate is dangerous. That is why we cannot only invest in the national detection network in my budget. This is a significant structural investment for the coming years because the national detection network is needed to detect cyber attacks from the Netherlands, from abroad or from a criminal background. In addition, we invest extra in cybercrime and cybersecurity resilience, including with the national police. Mr Verhoeven will no doubt have seen 150 men released by the Chief Constable last week in order to be active in this area. Finally, I would like to refer Mr Verhoeven to the Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands 2015; in that document recently sent to this Chamber by the Secretary of State for Security and Justice as responsible for cybersecurity, we indicate that Dutch national security and economy is threatened by state actors and that digital attacks are an attractive alternative to conventional military and espionage resources. This also means that we are aware of this and that we are also taking measures to counter it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u7	The minister actually says: we already knew and we are alert. On the one hand, he sees that underestimating is dangerous, as all the experts have said in recent weeks, but on the other hand, he is rather laconic, which seems inappropriate to me. Russia has not only hacked the Democratic Party in the United States but also the Polish Government and last year the German Bundestag. Russia has been trying to influence political discussions in many ways for years. The Netherlands is also a potentially very interesting target because of the Ukraine referendum and the MH17. I would even say that it is quite clear that the Russians are going to try to influence the elections in the Netherlands on 15 March. The NCTV even says that Russia-friendly politicians may be entering politics. Our own security services have also warned. Prime Minister Rutte said on 16 December that the Netherlands is alert. My question to the Minister is why this cabinet does so little. Why does the cabinet stay on his hands? The minister says he has a security image and puts some extra money into the National Detection Network. We are talking about 16 million, while the Germans and the British are spending more than 1 billion on additional measures. So the cabinet doesn't underestimate this case? What is the government doing until 15 March to ensure safe elections in the Netherlands that are not being hacked?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u8	I do not think it can be seen from my words that we underestimate the risk. I do not recognize the image that Mr Verhoeven sketches when he says that it is laconically done by me. In recent years, we have made it very clear in all the documents, including the threat I have just referred to and presented by the Secretary of State, that we are incredibly aware of the risk. The Prime Minister confirmed that last Friday. In addition to the investments we have already made and on top of the money that is already available, we are making additional money available for the detection network needed to respond adequately. We have had a very successful public-private partnership with the Cyber Security Centre for a very long time, which has also assisted the Research Council for Security in this process. We are very, very alert to the elections in the Netherlands because, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, we do not exclude the possibility that other actors want something with them. We are very busy, including the individual political parties, to ensure that the electoral process in the Netherlands can proceed undisturbed and secure. The same applies to digital security.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u10	So the Germans and the British are pulling out 1 billion and the Netherlands 16 million. I think that's a pretty big difference. I would almost say that it really seems that the cabinet underestimates this, at least if you look at the amounts and investments in greater security. I have another point. A month ago, D66 asked the cabinet to explain in a letter what concrete steps the cabinet is going to take to prevent influence on our elections by Russian hacks, trolls and fake news. That was a month ago. We still haven't received that letter. When's the letter coming? I really hope it comes this week. Then we can at least see if we can have a debate on this in the Chamber as soon as possible. We can then look at what concrete measures are needed to be taken before 15 March, in order to prevent the political parties from being hacked in the same way as in the United States. That's where it happened because the FBI, who was on top of it, just underestimated it. Then we do not have to say on 16 March: gosh, yeah, stupid that we have not done anything about this anymore. Now it's still possible. So I would like a quick response and a letter from the cabinet, so that at least the Chamber can hold a debate and drive the minister a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u11	Those parliamentary questions were put by the Chambers Committee on the Interior to the Minister of the Interior and to me. The Minister of the Interior will answer the questions as responsible for the electoral process. I understand he expects to be able to do this very soon. That will probably happen this week, otherwise it will be at the beginning of next week. For the rest, Mr Verhoeven's analysis of the investments that the Netherlands makes in total in the field of cybersecurity and cybercrime is not correct because it was extra money that we put on top of it, just for the National Detection Network. But fortunately there is still much more happening in the Netherlands than that. That does not mean that this will be enough for the coming years. I would like to say this very quickly in the direction of Mr Verhoeven. I am assuming that, as the Secretary of State responsible has already pointed out, cybersecurity and cybercrime will remain a real focus in the future. There is no doubt that much remains to be done in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u12	It's true that the Cyber Security Center is mainly there to monitor the network, but after that? I get incredibly many questions from people who have been hacked, then report them to the police and not be helped. What are we gonna do with that? Everyone understands the hacking when your computer's been hacked. It's about the next step. What's the police gonna do with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u13	Together with Mrs Oosenbrug, I am concerned about the willingness to report digital crime. In recent years, we have seen a drop in the number of cybercrime declarations, whereas we are actually expecting the cybercrime to increase. There is a real concern there, as I indicated in the letters I sent to the Chamber on this matter. The Chamber is right to say that it is difficult. It's not easy. Of course, we have the Team High Tech Crime, which is very active on this issue, supported by the teams from the region. That is exactly why the Chief Constable has announced that he is releasing 150 extra people to act against it. The chief of police also sees that this is necessary and useful. I note, however, that the problem is not so much the declaration as the fact that people do not report it. A lot of people seem to think it's stupid of themselves. I would therefore like to make the following appeal: even if you think it might be stupid of yourself, you are most likely to report it. This helps us to develop our efforts in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-17-tweedekamer-4.u14	Thank you very much, Minister.
