ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mr. Chairman. The CDA is very concerned about the coverage and quality of nuclear power plants, just across the border in Belgium, with the inhabitants of our beautiful Limburg. Not for nothing is by the end of this month a very big protest march in Limburg, which calls for the closure of nuclear power stations. A month ago, we discussed this important issue with this Minister. We know that in the Netherlands we are not formally discussing the closure of Belgian nuclear power stations. However, I do share the great concerns of our inhabitants in Limburg and in the rest of our border region. Energy generation must be carried out in a safe manner. This raises the necessary questions. In a newspaper article we read that more cracks were found in Tihange than five years ago and that this would be the result of a different arrangement of ultrasonic measuring equipment and a defective measurement process. Some cracks discovered earlier have not been observed this time. If I let these lines work out for me, it's gonna make me really cold. How is this possible? On this basis, how can the Minister determine whether or not the measurements are correct? Tear marks that were there haven't been detected. They're not here anymore? Can the Belgian Minister, Mr Jambon, guarantee that all the cracks are now in the picture? Or are there any more cracks? When, according to the Minister, is this going to be a problem? To what extent does it have access to the data? Does our supervisor, the ANVS, have access to that data? The report by the Belgian regulator, the FANC, talks about 70 additional flaw indications. In Objective 3, it would even be about 300 flaw indications. We think that's important. Can the Minister indicate how serious it really is? The CDA would also like the Minister to invite her Belgian colleague Jambon to a debate in our Parliament on nuclear power plants in Belgium. We would like to ask him ourselves what exactly is going on here. Is she prepared to do so on behalf of our people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Mulder knows, I am always very active in the dossier on the nuclear power plants in Doel and Tihange. I have recently sent a letter to my colleague stating the feeling of the Chamber that the Netherlands should join the protests of Luxembourg and Germany. That letter's out the door. Of course, I closely follow all new reports on this subject, including this report on the 70 additional cracks that have been seen. I've been informed about that. It turns out, Mrs Mulder said this herself, even though this outcome is the result of the measurement method. This measurement method has inaccuracies, both downwards, so that some cracks are no longer seen, and upwards, so you sometimes see extra cracks. However, this is all within the range permitted internationally for the measurement method. So it doesn't have to lead to extra worries. The concern that lived in Limburg was: hey, how can this be, it has always been said that there would be no extra hydrogen flakes and that they belonged to the installation from the very beginning and now there have been additional ones? That is not the case. There really is only a lack of clarity in the measurement method; it is not the case that there are cracks in the course of time, creating a more dangerous situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u3	However, this method of measuring or not measuring the cracks is very unsatisfactory, even for us in this Parliament. After all, when you don't really know where the cracks have gone and if they suddenly wouldn't be important anymore, it does something with your sense of safety. The CDA believes that when it comes to nuclear energy, it should be extra safe. We are in favour of nuclear energy throughout the energy mix, but then we want to get the guarantee from our southern neighbours that it is really safe for our inhabitants in Limburg. And not only there, also for the inhabitants of the rest of the border region, also for the people of Doel it must be safe. That's where 300 irregularities were detected. I would like to know from the Minister how she looks at this. We can just read it in a report from the FANC. What does the Belgian Minister do about it? Is our Minister prepared to invite her Belgian colleague here in Parliament? It is high time we had a discussion between our parliamentarians and the Belgian minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u4	I think Mrs Mulder is right to say that she is concerned about the sense of security of the people in the region. I also think that the communication on this issue has again not gone well. First a report was presented containing all these figures and only later an explanation was given. I fully understand that this leads to the necessary concerns. After all, what does it mean, that extra hydrogen flakes have been seen? Mrs Mulder asks me to invite the fellow minister. I do not know if there has ever been such a thing in parliamentary history. Perhaps it would be a good idea if the Committee on the Rules of Procedure were first informed by, for example, the FANC, the independent institution in Belgium, by visiting it or by inviting the FANC here once. I think it would be wiser to ask experts about it than politicians, because especially in the field of nuclear safety supervision, expertise is far more important than what you think politics is about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u5	I am pleased that the Minister is at least prepared to bring the FANC to the Dutch Parliament so that we can ask our own questions about all the problems that exist with these nuclear power plants in Belgium. We are really very concerned about this. We simply do not know which cracks there may be that the FANC may have reported, but the Minister may not have brought out yet. In the same article that we read, we also saw that the FANC may not communicate everything yet, but the Minister does, so that there is great confusion about it again. In any case, thanks to the Minister for bringing the FANC here from Belgium, because I think that the entire Dutch Parliament wants to know about all the issues there. If that is the case, it may then invite the Minister. Maybe that's a step we can still take. Are there any other cracks whose existence may not have come out yet, but which this minister already knows might have an impact on security? Then I'd like to hear that from this minister today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u6	I'm not aware of any cracks other than those reported here. It becomes a problem if the increase is greater than within the uncertainty of the measurement. Those margins of uncertainty have been established. If there are any additional cracks out there, there may be an increase, but this is not included. I don't know about any other cracks either. You also say you're glad I brought the FANC here. I will ask the people of the FANC neatly if they will come sometime to show their expertise. We'll see what the answer to that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u7	We have previously held a joint hearing with Belgian parliamentarians. It was about the Fyra. Perhaps that could be a parliamentary means and we could hold a hearing together with our Belgian colleagues on this ongoing problem. Does the Minister now say "go to sleep quietly, because it's all gonna be okay; it's been well examined; the reports are complicated, but for it may not seem to understand"? Or does she say "we're really going through a critical lower limit now, so I'm going to take action to ensure that the Dutch population and the Dutch economy are protected"? Which one is it? Is it still "get some sleep"? Or are we through the critical lower limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u8	I have never said in this committee that you should go to sleep quietly or that I was sleeping there. I always said I was on top of it. I follow everything, every incident, but I always have to stay in fact. I can't be the one who panics by saying that it looks so hard that we have to close things down because it seems difficult. We should always stay basically. The independent experts of the FANC are watching over this. That is where international supervision takes place again to see whether it is safe or not, and whether incidents could have a nuclear effect or not. I'm gonna stay on top of that, even in this case. Of course, we immediately looked at what it is about, what the importance is and what the problem is. This falls within the ranges of measurement. It therefore does not lead to the conclusion that there is an increase. These things just need to be kept up to date, so that we can jump right on top of them in the future if there is to be an increase. So it's never "we're going to sleep."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u9	A second supplementary question, Mrs Van Tongeren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u10	The Minister says that, if she looks at everything in fact and soberly, she will come to this judgment. However, 25 June is a huge demonstration of residents from several countries, with directors from several provinces and cities, from the border regions, from Luxembourg and Germany. This minister says that she is looking at it factually and carefully, but that there is certainly no reason to panic at the moment and no reason to take further action. Those two cases aren't quite on the same page, are they, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u11	They are very close to each other, because there are two ways to deal with this dossier. I deal with the file in both ways. One way is the political way, the other the actual way. In fact, I share what comes out of the expert meetings and expert reports. Politically, I agree with those who protest against this organization; your Chamber has tabled a motion on this subject under the direction of Mr Wassenberg. But I do think that you should not confuse those two things and that you should not let the impression exist that some things are unsafe when they are not; I hope to be able to ask your Chamber as well. You can say from your political convictions: let's not do it anymore, because we don't think it's desirable. But that is something other than saying that suddenly it has become unsafe because 70 more flakes have now been detected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u12	You indicated that you want to base yourself on facts. We have previously insisted that the FANC, if it discovers those facts, communicates with, among other things, the ANVS about expected and unexpected closures. Has there been any contact between FANC and ANVS on this matter to ensure that the Dutch side can also rely on facts and perhaps get some clarity about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u13	This report was dated November 2016. We have recently discussed asking the FANC to inform the ANVS in the front. This is from before the deal we made with each other. So I don't know if it was known to them before they brought this out, but I do know that we've asked for it now at least for every subsequent incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u14	I live in the region, 50 kilometers from the ticking time bomb that Tihange is. When I walk on the street in Geleen, Maastricht or Sittard, people speak to me. Those people have great concerns, because it's not just those 70 new cracks but there's a whole list: hydrogen flakes, leaking welds, dynamos and even an exploded transformer. People are very worried and the Minister says: I sent a letter to Mr Jambon in Belgium. But the motion I tabled with a few other groups also calls for contact with Germany and Luxembourg, in particular, in order to protest to Belgium together with those countries. Has the Minister contacted her German colleague, Barbara Hendricks, and her Luxembourg colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u15	The letter I have just sent to Jambon states that we have contacted Germany and Luxembourg to see whether the governments themselves have protested there or only the municipalities that have been mentioned so far, what they are doing to protest, what the content of it is and how we can go along with it. So that process is in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u16	Okay, then I suppose the Chamber will get the answers as soon as possible. My second question is perhaps a rhetorical question: what should actually go wrong if the pressure really is to be increased? It's a ticking time bomb. The question is not whether it goes off, but when it goes off. What's to be done? What's to go wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u17	That last sentence, that something will go wrong anyway, I leave it to Mr Wassenberg. It is important that my role in the Netherlands is very clear. We have a minister who's about nuclear power and a minister who's about supervision. I look at all Dutch organizations. I am on top of ensuring that there are no risks in terms of safety as well as waste and radiation. I'll do it through the ANVS. That's an independent organization. As a politician, I can never be tempted to say: I am actually in favour of nuclear energy, so never mind. In Belgium there is the same construction. That's where the FANC has to make sure it's safe. And yes, we do hear a lot about incidents, but every time we ask about them, the FANC says: this is possible. It is also critical of the organisations and points out if cultural change is needed or if measures need to be taken. The FANC is therefore also on top of it, but each time it indicates that there is no unsafe situation. What am I supposed to do? When Dutch say: because so many people are worried, am I going to say at once that it is unsafe? No, I'm not. I'm the one who's worried about you. I'm working on the communication process. I just invited all the security regions back to me. I look at safety aspects by following very closely the reports of the FANC; the ANVS does that for me. I think that's what we should do. Following Mr Wassenberg's request, we now join the protesters. I think that is just a good, clear but fair road.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u18	There are also enormous concerns with the SP, because it is not the first time that there have been incidents. It's a huge list. Mr Wassenberg just told him very clearly. There are new cracks again and it is again unclear whether safety is guaranteed. If that is not the case, then the disaster cannot be foreseen, including for the inhabitants of Limburg. You have heard a very clear statement from the Chamber. You have just indicated that you have written a letter, that you have been in consultation and that you will inform the Chamber in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u19	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u20	I think that's very skinny. Can the Minister also put a deadline on that? Because I hear her say here: what am I supposed to do? Well, that's what she's got to do. In fact, the Chamber has decided by a majority to see this power station closed down. Could the Minister come back to us as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs Beckerman, the question must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u22	The Chamber may wish to close the plant, but that is what Belgium itself is about. I signed up with the objectors. I am therefore carrying out the motion in full. The motion was just adopted last week. I am now in contact with Germany and Luxembourg. I sent a letter to my colleague Jambon. So Mrs Beckerman can't say that I'm taking it easy on that. I take the Chamber extremely seriously. When are the answers gonna come? We will also have to make a good legal analysis. We will certainly go into this in more detail in a subsequent general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think that the cabinet takes this issue seriously, even if only because the Chamber has given its unanimous opinion on it. We are in favour of closure. But I have a specific question. A major protest event will take place on 25 June. A lot of people will walk in a large human chain to Belgium. It is good that the security regions have been informed, but what do we do with the legitimate questions and care that people have for themselves, for their children, for their living environment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u24	Last year, we made agreements on communication. Actually, we're getting more and more focused on them. We just had a conversation with the security regions and some mayors involved in those marches. How can we give the right information as soon as possible, so people don't get nervous because they don't know what's going on? How can we ensure that we provide more unambiguous information? For example, if iodine pills are provided by the VWS Ministry, the coherence should also be considered. What exactly does that mean? Should we be concerned about that or not? Agreements have been made with the security regions on simultaneous communication. So we try to think as much as possible from those who are worried and live in the border area. What's the best way to get to them? There are different ways of looking at it in different places. Sometimes it goes through the security regions and sometimes through the mayor and through the local newspapers. The environment chooses what works best for her.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u25	We have often discussed the issue of nuclear energy. It evokes a lot of emotions. The facts are of course very relevant. I also think that the Minister is doing well. She's doing everything she can. I do have a question. I heard a debate. That story was also published in De Limburger. Mr Wassenberg sat opposite energy expert and atomic physicist Wim Turkenburg. That's a gentleman I'm very fond of. He said: it is absurd to say that the nuclear power station in Tihange is unsafe. Can the Minister reflect on that? Mr Turkenburg states that Tihange is as dangerous or harmless as Borssele. Can the Minister reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u26	Well, reflect... in short, it's oral Question Time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u27	I, too, have heard Mr Turkenburg's statement. Actually, I'd like to start with the ANVS and the FANC alone. These are the official bodies with experts. There will be a lot of other experts. Some will say "no" and others will say "yes." I assume from the ANVS, which oversees Borssele and tells me that the operation can take place safely there, and the FANC, which oversees Doel and Tihange, which indicates to its minister that the operations can take place safely there. We have to rely on that. Furthermore, we just have to be on top of it every time and know what to do if there is a change in the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-13-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you.
