ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u1	Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure has just been used. The proposal has been adopted. Rule 68 requires the President to have the power to distribute the remaining time in a fair manner. As we have just decided, this means the following. If we are going to meet until 5 a.m., we have 60 minutes of speaking time. There are six other speakers on the list, including Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV. So everyone gets ten minutes. So you can finish your story in ten minutes, Mr. Mulder, and so can the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u2	I now give the floor to Mr Mulder on behalf of the PVV. Just so we're clear, no interruptions. Mr Mulder has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u3	Mr. Chairman. I think that anyone who looks at this debate, like me, thinks it is a gross scandal that a very small majority here wants to push her through for the third time in a short time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u4	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u5	No, Mr. Van Weyenberg, we have 60 minutes and we can't be interrupted. There must be no provocation, Mr. Mulder. Please continue with your speech. You have almost ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u6	For the third time, like I said. It's the harassment of power. We have seen it with the dividend tax, without even a beginning of an argument, without even trying to be serious. We saw it pushing through these Hills of the Law. And now, in the run-up to this debate, while being very tough with the press that the opposition was allowed to go free, intervention is being taken and the speaking time that was promised is simply taken away. In a lot of countries there are wordings for this, but let me finish it nicely on my part. What I would like to add is that this is about the back of vulnerable people who are very badly affected. That doesn't seem to matter to much of the people around here. Without even wanting to listen to the arguments, without even listening to them, this is done away with. That says a lot about this new government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u7	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are discussing the abolition of the Hills Act today. I would like to return to the two reasons why this scheme was ever introduced. The first was the intention to tax-enhancing the redemption of mortgages at a time when that was not yet the norm. Secondly, the scheme was designed to accommodate homeowners with no or low household debt. I'd like to walk by both targets briefly. The first reason for the tax subsidy, the tax concession, was that, at a time when you didn't have to pay off and where there were no limits on the duration of the mortgage interest deduction, this was the way to encourage people to do so. Now you see that the rules of the game have changed. In the meantime, if you want to be eligible for mortgage interest relief, you have to pay off the mortgage in 30 years. From that point of view, you could say that the Hills Act has been overtaken by a new fact. At the round table which we were able to organise together with our colleague, Professor Conijn appointed this as an important reason. In addition, I am pleased to note that it is always financially attractive to pay off with or without the Hills Act. That's wise at all. I think it's good to notice. I understand very well that people say they were counting on something else. They had been counting on the survival of the Hills Act, but also for them, redemption always means that you have less monthly expenses. That has not become a less sensible choice. In addition, repayment was actually only encouraged at the very last stage. Especially for people with a very high mortgage, who can worry about their financial vulnerability, the Hills Act does very little to stimulate redemption. The second reason was of a more income-political nature. For this reason, too, many speakers have said at the round table that we organised that there are better and more targeted instruments for providing income support for older people in particular who have a repaid or almost repaid mortgage. The cabinet is therefore doing so with an increase of €160 in the old age discount in 2021. The elderly discount will be phased out much more slowly, a point that Mr Van Rooijen, among others, has long been calling for attention to. We also increase the general tax discount by as much as €350. It is particularly good to note that we have talked a lot about people with only AOW or a very small pension. We have wondered what abolishing the Hills Act would mean to them. It is good to realize that many of those elderly people are now unable to cash in the Hills Act. They have too low income to be able to convert the tax rebates into sounding currencies. From all the sums of the cabinet we have had almost 30 tables with calculations of the impact............................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's a good thing to mitigate some concerns. Mr Snels also asked whether you should not always look at how things work out in practice. Of course I agree with that. In any policy measure, I believe that this is sensible for both the Cabinet and the Chamber. For older people with a slightly higher income, who may benefit less from the general tax rebate and the reduction of the old-age discount, there is, of course, a reduction in the rates in the discs, which gives them an improvement in purchasing power. That could be pretty much in the paperwork, too. What do you want to do when you see that the two important reasons for the existence of the law have become obsolete? Redemption is no longer necessary, because that has actually become the norm in the rules on mortgage interest relief. For income policy there are better instruments. So what are the reasons for abolishing the law now? The first is financial sustainability. Since we are all paying off, you see that the figures of the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs also show that most people can already call on the Hills Act after 20 or 25 years, making recourse to the Hills Act the norm, instead of the exception that the law had ever been devised for. If you're gonna cut it down, it's gonna have to be careful. The cabinet chooses to do so in small steps, so that in 30 years' time the deduction of Hillen will be completely reduced. I note that this is a ten years longer phasing-out period than my own party's programme, but also a longer phasing-out period than the programmes of parties that had this measure in their programme. I am looking in particular at the colleagues of the SP and the Labour Party. Mr Nijboer had a ten-year phasing-out in his programme and the Socialist Party wanted a one-off. The cabinet opts for a much longer transitional period. Finally, Mr President. Can you really say that the purchasing power effects have been mitigated? The government itself says that the policy certainly compensates for the effects of the phasing-out of the Hillen scheme for lower incomes. I think this is important: you have to look at the total. Then all the measures I mentioned earlier far outweigh the disadvantage of abolishing the Hills Act for most of the people. I have heard some big words about it today, but I think we should keep this in perspective. A number of cases have been discussed, such as someone with AOW and €10,000, a partner with only AOW and a home of €250,000 WOZ value. You can see that with this cabinet policy it will improve almost €700. But look at other groups as well. For example, an AOW worker with €30,000 supplementary pension has with his partner, an AOW worker with €10,000 pension, a home of 0.5 million euros, a substantial amount. Then you see that in 2021 the effect of the Hills Act is €82 and that almost €2,400 other benefits are against it. All in all, I understand very well that if you stop a financial subsidy scheme, a tax advantage, people who count on it don't like it. I don't expect anyone to do that. But when I look at the causes, I think that abolition is sensible and justified, and when I look at purchasing power, it is also sufficiently secure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u9	Were you ready, Mr. Van Weyenberg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u10	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u11	Thank you. No, you can't interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u12	A point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u13	You have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u14	A constructive point of order, Mr President. No normal person meets until 5:00, so I can understand why we're not allowed to interrupt anymore. But I did feel the challenge and I really do have some questions. So I would ask you to give the opportunity tomorrow, in second term, to intervene with those who are still speaking. Yes, that can always be done in second term, but I wanted to ask you to allow that tomorrow a little bit wider than usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u15	We'll start tomorrow at 8:00. So if I start leaving everyone room for interruptions... I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u16	I can imagine, through you, that tomorrow we will try to find an order that will allow us to conduct the debate in an orderly manner and that of all the parties involved. Perhaps we should make good agreements on this in advance, because I am happy to answer Mr Nijboer's questions and I understand the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u17	I'd say let's get some rest first. Then we're gonna see how we're gonna do that in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u18	I'm rested, Mr. Chairman. But it's really crazy if you can't ask coalition parties about legislation on a bill. That's very strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u19	Clear, thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkgraaf on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I can be very brief, because there has been a wide-ranging exchange of views and all the arguments have passed. I'm just giving you my main points, and that's three. A good sermon always consists of three points. The first point is that, in our view, this law undermines trust in the government. Colleagues have been very clear about it. I remember Mr Snels, who said fine words about this. Many changes in the past, all kinds of legislative proposals that were passed and often they were said: yes, but this is it, now people know where they stand. Then you don't have to change the rules of the game every time. That is an important argument for us. The second point is that we do not believe that the phasing-out path is credible. We are talking about 30 years now, but we can see with all these measures that it is being accelerated by a subsequent cabinet and sometimes even within the cabinet. Our expectation is that this will happen here as well. The third point is that the effect on older people with only AOW or a small pension is too great for us. The power is often stuck in the house. People have just been expecting that they have very low housing costs. Then you shouldn't do this. So unless the Secretary of State can defuse these reasons, of course we always listen to the answers of the Secretary of State, our group intends to vote against this law. I have nothing but to congratulate Mr Edgar Mulder on his birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u21	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that people are concerned about how some of the government's measures are going to affect them, what their personal consequences are. This also applies to the gradual phasing out of the deduction because of no or low property debt or the phasing out of the Hillen Act. It creates uncertainty. The impact of all measures on your wallet is still difficult to assess and assess for people. When phasing out the Hilling Act, it feels unfair that you have properly repaid your mortgage and eventually have to pay taxes on it. I would like to say quite frankly that it is not an easy measure for the VVD. However, the proposal is part of a whole range of measures. In order to limit the impact, a long transitional right has been chosen, a very gradual phasing-out in 30 years. The total package of measures for the housing market also reduces the housing gap. House owners benefit from this, including those who are now covered by the Hills Act. The government agreement also includes a reduction in income tax. All this means that by far the majority of people are making progress through government measures, including those with their own homes, around 96%. Homeowners are making more progress than the average Dutchman: 1.4% for homeowners compared with 1.1% on average. In addition, it is important to weigh the fact that by making the mortgage compulsory, everyone would eventually have repaid it and would thus be covered by the Hills Act. This makes this scheme difficult to sustain in the long term. In that overall package and in that overall consideration, the VVD considers this measure to be justified, even though I am well aware that it is still a measure that affects people and makes them insecure. Government and politics are there to take responsibility, make choices, compromise and take action. And honestly, that's not always easy. It inevitably leads to people or groups of people being hit. Politicians who claim they can prevent that do not tell the honest and complete story. This applies, for example, to the housing market. For example, in 2012 the cabinet agreed that the loan to value would be adjusted from 106% to 100% in 2018. This affects in particular the start-ups in the housing market, especially young people. But it also applies to another measure in the coalition agreement that is already being introduced: increasing the percentage of the Innovation Box from 5% to 7%. This is even true as of 1 January 2018, while the agreed corporate tax reduction is not yet laid down in the rules. This, of course, affects companies that are involved and have been counting on it. I still find it special that I don't hear about it. Mr. Chairman. The hearing also mentioned the importance of compensatory measures. I have already mentioned a number of them, but I would like to add a few more. I have already mentioned the income tax measure, but also the general tax rebate goes up and the elderly discount goes up. There will no longer be a hard limit to the old-age discount, which will be reduced slowly and gradually. We are taking measures when it comes to the capital efficiency levy. We have a lower capital income adjustment for the Long-Term Care Act. We have arranged a subscription fee for the Social Support Act. This will ensure that 88% of older people are also making progress. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a number of questions about the legislative proposal before us. A number of points have already been addressed in the written rounds that we have had in advance, but I still think it is important to obtain further clarification from the Secretary of State for a number of questions. In response to the opinion of the Council of State, the Secretary of State says that he agrees with the Council of State's plea for further simplification of the housing regime. What does the Secretary of State mean by that? A number of speakers have already mentioned that phasing out the Hills Act could have an impact on people's allowances. It is therefore mainly a question of the care allowance. Can the Secretary of State clarify what groups they are dealing with and when they are dealing with them? A number of specific groups were also discussed in last week's round table. This has already been mentioned very briefly in the answer to the written questions, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to go into the issue of tenants, as well as the people who are dealing with divorce. Finally, a question we often get as a VVD. Why can't existing cases be dealt with in the regulatory framework? The Secretary of State has already indicated that he considers this impossible, but we still consider it important for the Secretary of State to give a more detailed explanation of how and why. I realize that this has been a special process. I think we have been looking for ways of opening up this process with two written rounds, including debate, a round table and a lot of information exchange. I've gotten a lot of purchasing power cards from a lot of different groups of people. I think this has also been good in the process of final decision-making. That is all I have to say, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u23	Thank you, Mrs De Vries. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u24	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the drive and stamina of my colleagues, of the Secretary of State and, not least, of Mr Van Rooijen. Chapeau! Yesterday and today we are talking about phasing out the Hill grant. This phase-out is part of a package of measures which include, for example, the increase and improvement of the elderly's discount and the 20% reduction in the household credit. However, the question is, of course, justified as to whether the phasing out of the Hill grant is justified. I'm coming to answer that question. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the history of law, but I am happy to be brief about this after Mr Van Rooij's exposé. During the 2003 legal process, the Christian Union Group pointed out that the Hillen initiative proposal was an isolated element in the entire discussion on the tax treatment of the home and a very expensive solution, of up to EUR 250 million then, to reduce the bad consequences of the other almost unbridled, expensive tax subsidy, mortgage interest relief. It was the years of extensive redemption-free top mortgages. And however sympathetic the aim was, my group found it irresponsible to vote for such an isolated proposal, while the relevant legislative proposal did not look more comprehensively at the housing market and the housing regime. At the time, the critical point of the Christian Union was that the pressure for repayment of redemption-free mortgages with unbridled mortgage interest rate deductions would not be much greater. In that sense, the Hills Act was a malfunctioning remedy for a far too big problem. A homeopathic remedy, I say with a wink at the first legislative consultation on the Tax Plan 2018. Only with the mandatory repayment of newly contracted mortgages introduced in 2013, and the then wagered reduction of the loan to value to, next year, 100%, was a powerful remedy, a real medicine found to prevent excessive mortgage debts. Of course, that would have been the most logical time to phase out the Hills Act for both substantive and budgetary reasons. The budgetary impact would increase with the advent of mandatory repayment from the original approximately 250 million to some 1.4 billion in the end. Despite the opposition of the Christian Union and also of the colleagues of PvdA, GroenLinks and the SP, the Hillen grant was introduced on 1 January 2005. For example, a long period of a form of self-employment for property owners with a nearly or fully repaid mortgage ended. Indeed, in the period 1893 to 2005, although in different forms, there had been a form of self-employment for this group. After an interruption of 14 years, we now return to that old situation. Fourteen years, most of the elderly, have been able to benefit from this grant, and some of it from 2019 onwards. I call it a subsidy in my contribution, but I am very aware, I also say to Mr Van Rooijen, that not everyone has felt it as such or sees it as such. I understand. The house itself is always an emotional subject. That's what we saw last night. When I look at homeowners who have nicely paid off their mortgage, who during their working lives have ensured that they have little living expenses left and little debt in their old age, I understand that there is anger. However gradually, the abolition of the Hill grant affects these people. People who have always been economical and sparing. Besides, you can't eat rocks. With a small pension, you could be in a house free of mortgage, but what good is that? In this context, I agree with the questions that have been asked about the possibilities of taking a mortgage at an older age and then not entirely repaying it. For example, how accessible are the retention loan, the cash mortgage, or the overvalue plan for elderly people with a high overvalue house? How does the Secretary of State look at forms like a care mortgage or sale and rent back? In practice, is there a gap or is the issue of high capital in the house too little liquidity already well solved by homeowners? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. That's where the word "power" has fallen. That seems right to me, because the home is for living and it is property. However, it is not a freely absorbable asset, such as savings. That's what my questions just came up with. How does the Secretary of State see this? How would he characterize this step of gradually abolishing the Hills Act? As a necessary step on the way to box 3, of course, with an exemption and the possibility of debt settlement, since the house cannot be considered merely as capital, as the Secretary of State pointed out in the note following the report? I'm curious to hear his views on this. Mr. Chairman. A great deal of concern has been expressed yesterday and today in relation to the intention to delete the Hills Act. However, it also offers advantages. Previously, a number of colleagues have pointed out that property owners benefit more from the government agreement than tenants. This is, of course, due to the fact that tenants often have a low income, while homeowners often have a middle income and middle income benefits most from this coalition agreement. In any case, the deletion of the Hillen Act narrows the gap in tax treatment between buyers and tenants. In my written contribution, I asked for an insight into how a tenant and a homeowner with exactly the same characteristics are taxed, where the homeowner has saved up to pay off his mortgage and the tenant has put his savings on the savings book and is thus kicked in box 3. Tables 11 and 12 in the note on the report speak volumes, for which thanks to the Secretary of State. With a house and a capacity in box 3 of more than two tons, even after the abolition of the Hills Act, there is still a difference in tax burden of more than a factor 9 for AOW beneficiaries. For more expensive houses and larger capacities in box 3, the factor decreases to over 3, but the absolute differences continue. At five tons we are talking about a difference of €4,700. With 1 million, the difference in tax due goes towards the €10,000. That's unfair. Those are different bases to view power. Those are the amounts after the Hills Act has been fully phased out and assuming that the increase in the value of the home did not exceed that of the assets in box 3. That's, to put it mildly, a pretty conservative assumption. How does the Secretary of State view this reasoning and these facts? Mr. Chairman. Finally, back to the position of older people with a house that is worth relatively much, but at the same time with a relatively low income. I have already asked the Secretary of State whether the possibility of creating additional liquidity on the basis of his own house is sufficiently regulated. Another consideration when it comes to abolishing the Hill grant is, of course, as was pointed out at the hearing, that it is a very unfocused measure to accommodate the low-income elderly. If we want to target these older people, it is logical to do so in a generic way: through the AOW, income dependent on the elderly discount, or for example through the care allowance, compensation in the Wmo, collective health insurance and other municipal poverty schemes. In almost all these areas, this cabinet is taking action and ensuring that many older people are also making progress. Taking into account everything that has been exchanged so far, my group concludes that it is very, very justified to gradually say goodbye to the anomaly Hills.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u25	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. Mr. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u26	I wanted to ask my colleague something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u27	It can't be. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law before us tonight brings us back to the pre-refundable mortgage situation. Perhaps allowing the repayment-free mortgage is the biggest mistake we have ever made in the Dutch housing market. When it comes to making a debt, it's part of paying off a debt. The CDA is in favour of own house ownership and is therefore not in favour of a rental house that you rent at Rabobank because you have a refund-free mortgage there. Therefore, owners of their own home receive a deduction from the mortgage interest rate. Moreover, this coalition makes mortgage interest more fair by allowing the deduction for everyone to be made at the standard rate. The value of the mortgage interest rate deduction, the grant, remains significantly higher than the addition from the current legislative proposal. Equity is taxed in the Netherlands, as Mr Bruins has just said, in box 3. The own house is completely excluded from that. Before that in the place there was always the rental value: the value you have of renting. Later this was renamed the home forfait. As I mentioned earlier, it was 1.3% of the value of the inhabited house in the 1970s. To remove all ambiguity: the tax rate on equity is currently about 1.5% of the capital if you have a higher capital. That's the tax you pay. Re-initiation of the mortgage-free housing capital will result in a tax rate of up to 0.25. That is very consciously a factor of 6 lower than with freely available power. You only pay that for houses up to a million euros if you fall into the top rate. So you have to have an income of more than about €68,000. Oh yes, you must also have a partner who falls into the top rate and also earns more than €68.000. After all, you can decide for yourself which one of the two is included in the tax return. For pensioners who do not both have more than €68.000 income, let me say that this amounts to 99 points so much of pensioners' income, the tax is often 0.1%. That's one fifteenth of those on freely available assets. That's only after the transition period is over. What started out as a small deduction due to the many legal rules to pay off mortgages, has become a deduction that is difficult to sustain in terms of budgetary losses. Besides, the Hillen deduction knows overkill. The interest rate is very low, the house prices are rising rapidly and you are pretty quickly covered by the Hills deduction, even if you haven't paid off so much. This also applies to people with an old savings or investment mortgage or for people who have had mortgage interest relief for more than 30 years. Since 2013, people are obliged to pay off during the term. Can the Secretary of State confirm that paying off for someone with an old refund-free mortgage also pays after the phasing-out of the Hillen deduction due to the limitations of the mortgage interest rate deduction, the fact that the home forfait must also be paid if you still have a mortgage and the taxation in box 3? That's a situation we had before. I cannot, in all honesty, think of any examples where it does not pay for someone to pay off, because the addition is so low in itself, and the difference in interest rates is hugely small what banks pay for interest and what they ask for themselves. The abolition of the Hillen deduction has a very generous transitional period, namely 30 years. This means that a retired person with a supplementary pension of €10,000 will take this example because this is an average pension in the Netherlands and a house with a WPA value of €300,000, which is above average, will pay €10 extra per year in 2019. That's about €0.85 per month. In the second year, this person pays €1.70 per month. Mind you, this is a group of people who don't have rent charges. A retired couple, one of the partners of which does not have a pension, for example, the example from the first letter that Mr Van Rooijen read out is not paying anything. You heard me right: nothing at all. Because people with no or low supplementary pension do not pay taxes in the Netherlands. That is why I would like to ask the government the following questions. Can it indicate how much supplementary pension a pensioner must have before paying income tax? Is my calculation true that a couple that has both AOW and two times €3,000 supplementary pension per year......................................................................................................................................................................................... How is that at the end of the cabinet period? And can you think of any other country in the world where that couple doesn't pay income tax? Mr Dijkgraaf mentions Greece. I mean under the statutory fees. For those who are funny about the Greeks: the reductions on Greek pensions have been very intense. You wouldn't laugh very much if you were a Greek retired. The measure to abolish the Hillen deduction cannot be separated from all other tax measures for individuals under the government agreement. Because here's the next point. The tax reduction that this cabinet is making is many times greater in scope than the measures we are discussing here. This was also evident from the previously quoted 20 to 30 tables by Mr Van Weyenberg. Almost everywhere it was opposed to the tax reduction of this cabinet, the tax reduction over the next three years is many times greater than the addition by the abolition of the Hills Act for the next 30 years. It's really hard to think of another example. For in the coming years we will have the great financial advantage of the flat tax, the substantial increase in the general tax rebate, the increase in the elderly discount and the drop in the hard border of the elderly discount. We talked about the latter earlier today. This simply means €1,200, €1,300 or €1,400 more disposable income for that group. That is why I would simply like to ask the Secretary of State if he has an idea of which groups the decline of the Hills deduction has a financial impact greater than the above-mentioned beneficial measures in the coalition agreement. Mr. Chairman. The abolition of the Hills deduction is gradual in 30 years. It's hard to look so many years ahead. It does not seem unthinkable that the current rules of the home forfait combined with the decline of the Hills deduction could lead to unfair outcomes in some parts of the Netherlands in the future. Mr. Chairman. You may not believe it, but the CDA is not only a party of the region, but also a party of the big city. In Amsterdam, house prices are rising a little faster than in Enschede. There is a villa border in the apartment forfait. It is intended for villas, but that limit is not indexed with the price increases on the housing market. They are on average slightly larger than the price index in the long term. If the house prices in Amsterdam continue to rise at the same rate, we get fairly average houses above the villa border in Amsterdam. That is, on the one hand, a major problem for start-ups in the labour market, who really can't buy homes, but it can also be a problem for people who have just been economical. The Secretary of State has already said that the phasing-out of the Hills deduction will be taken into account in the review of the home housing regime in 2020. Can the Secretary of State undertake to include in this evaluation or a subsequent assessment of the housing market the income effects of phasing out, any unforeseen effects and the impact of the villa border on rising housing prices? By the way, I say to Mr Bruins: those who have not deducted their leases can continue to deduct them. For that group, nothing's gonna change. And that group of long-term contributors in Amsterdam is kind of on the big side. Mr. Chairman. When I look at the big picture, I am very concerned about the fact that the home housing scheme becomes quite incomprehensible, not only for taxpayers and not only for the Tax Administration, but even for tax experts such as Professor Stevens. It's by far the most complicated arrangement we have. Now there are many rules around their own home, think of the loan scheme................................................................................................................................................................................................. Nor will all the simplifications of the home housing regime be possible at present by the Tax Administration. But that doesn't mean the thinking has to stop. That is why I very much welcome the Secretary of State's undertaking that he is going to set out the possibilities for simplifying home housing arrangements. Can the Secretary of State promise that we will receive this plan for simplification by March? That includes the letter on the matrimonial property regime promised to the CDA Group. That was another thing that made it pretty complicated. That is why I am a little disappointed in the note on the report. A possible simplification, i.e. adding and subtracting at the same rate, is not yet implemented. Does the Secretary of State see any possibility of doing this in the near future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u29	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I thank the Members of Parliament. It's been a long night. Mr Mulder can still celebrate his birthday. Congratulations, by the way. I thank the Secretary of State. I would especially like to thank the messengers...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-21-tweedekamer-26.u30	... and the employees.
