ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on those who waive necessary care because of their own risk. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health and Well-being, the Members of Parliament and, in particular, the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen as the first speaker on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Being sick is not a choice. Don't worry, you'll need care. In the run-up to this debate, not only my mailbox but also my phone has been flooded with messages, on the one hand, from people who say "I do need care but I do not want it, simply because I fear the cost" and, on the other hand, from healthcare professionals who see in their practice or pharmacy that people do not want a referral or pick up the recipe, simply because they cannot bear the costs. The SP believes that this does not belong in a civilised country like the Netherlands. This afternoon there was news about the risk involved. In contrast to previous reports, their own risk does not increase, but is likely to remain the same. However, we would like to remind a number of parties here in the Chamber of Representatives of their electoral pledges. That election promise was: we are going to take the risk of our own. It is clearly a wise decision by the Minister of Foreign Affairs that is being taken by the current forming parties to avoid further increasing their own risk. We believe that this would be a direct middle-finger to the electorate, who, after all, indicated by a large majority in the last parliamentary elections that they wanted an approach to their own risk. No less than 98 seats in this newly elected parliament have in the election programme stated that one's own risk should be eliminated or reduced. Now we were informed this afternoon that, although the risk does not go up, it does not go down either. Mr. Chairman. We understand that the Minister is going to launch an urgent procedure today to ensure that his own risk does not increase automatically. We therefore hope to be able to use this debate to ensure that the Minister does not use this urgency procedure to freeze one's own risk, but to reduce one's own risk, at least as a first step. Let me make one thing clear: the SP is not in favour of the penalty on being sick. If it's the SP's fault, we'll eliminate our own risk tomorrow. We have also shown in our election programme that we have also put it through how we can and want to pay for it. So it's possible. But the first step of the approach is to reduce one's own risk; there is a majority in the Chamber for that, at least if you can believe the electoral programmes. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the issue of the premium. If we were to believe the reports and the recent letter from Minister Schippers, it would not continue to increase our own risk by €15 to a premium increase of €10. Our question to Minister Schippers is: is that correct? At the same time, our question is: can the Minister not think of a better way to finance this? We are making a number of suggestions, such as tackling the billions of reserves that are on the shelf of health insurance companies, tackling bureaucracy, tackling waste or tackling commerce. We will also make a proposal to finance it from it rather than from the pockets of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. Betrayed, cheated, cheated and cheated, that's how most of the Netherlands must feel today. Yesterday they heard that the economy is doing well, that all signals are green and that there is 6.1 billion to be spent. But what do they hear on the news today? The own risk remains €385. Most of the Netherlands consider their own risks far too high. Most of the Netherlands do not think it is possible that people do not dare to go to the doctor because of the costs. Most of the Netherlands are tired of people being punished by the government when they are seriously ill. That is why they made a choice seven months ago. They then listened to the promises of politics, for example to the Christian Union, which said "the own risk will be €100 lower" or to the CDA, which said "the own risk will be €105 lower." But what are Rutte's boyfriends pulling out of the top hat today? It doesn't reduce its own risk. Its own risk remains sky high. Its own risk keeps making sure people don't dare to go to the doctor. Its own risk keeps hitting people hard in the wallet. And nothing changes, thanks to the conservatives of D66, the Christian Union and the CDA. In order to maintain this rotten system of own risk, people also have to pay an additional €10 health insurance premium, on top of the €70 that has already been announced. That's solidarity for 2018. With €10, the people in the country have to pay off the broken political promises of Rutte's friends. That is absolutely outrageous. That's not a victory, it's a cigar from your own box. That is not social policy, it is antisocial policy. That's not a breakthrough, it's a dagger sting. No wonder people don't have faith in politics anymore. They do not understand that Rutte's friends are being stingy, while there is EUR 6.1 billion to be spent. They do not understand that the formation poker players do not do what they have promised, while the government raises 12 billion more in taxes. That is why I would like to appeal to the forming parties. Almost the whole country finds its own risk too high. Almost all parties consider their own risks too high. If they can arrange with an urgent procedure that their own risk remains scandalously high, I think we can also arrange for it to go down and even disappear as far as DENK is concerned. The money's here. The support is here. Now the nerve to eliminate one's own risk. I don't have any questions for the Minister. I only have one call: stop being stingy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. A lot of people go to the doctor with even more pain in their belly, because they're afraid to be referred to the hospital. They're worried about the cost of care, about the bills they can't pay. This is a very big problem for many people. On top of that, it was unclear for these people how high the risk would be. We heard "€400," but we weren't sure. Today we have heard that we are pleased that it is finally clear: its own risk remains €385. That is a start, because as far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are eliminating our own risk. But there's clarity now. That's a good start. Mr. Chairman. We understood from the Minister's letter that she will come forward with an urgent procedure to implement this change. My question, actually to the forming parties, is: why did we have to wait so long until we were clear about this? Why did people have to wait so long in suspense until they knew what they were up to? Couldn't we have done that before? Mr. Chairman. We also understand from the Minister's letter that care premiums would now be increased by €10. This is a cigar from your own box. It is very good news that we finally know where we stand with the level of our own risk, but it should not be the case that we then ask the people themselves to pay the premium with the plus of €10, with which they are actually in exactly the same situation as they were already in? There has to be another solution. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the announced premium increase is not going to happen. We can also find other solutions. We can adjust the state budget, and we can compensate for these costs for the health insurance companies by means of a state contribution, and that way we cannot put the bill on the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u7	I have a question for Mrs Ellemeet: where does the money come from in the national budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u8	We had the presentation of the budget yesterday. The billions are bouncing against the skirts. There is so much money that we choose to keep with us, while there are so many people in the Netherlands who can no longer pay for the costs of care. To be honest, I find the question of funding for this almost a little embarrassing. We can organize that funding. We have billions to spend. Let us then spend a small part of it, we are talking about only 170 million dollars so that at least we do not pay this bill to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u9	I ask Mrs Ellemeet because she thinks it is a disgrace that people should pay for it. That is also the background to my question. Isn't it true that we're all paying for everything that's going on here and what's going on in the rich budget? So whether you do it through taxes, through premiums or in any way, we all contribute to it. So I wonder why it's so scandalous when it goes through the premiums.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u10	We have tens of billions and we choose not to spend them. At the same time, we have people who cannot pay the care bill and who choose not to pick up a prescription and not to go to the hospital. For them, we can solve the problem. We have a huge surplus. Putting a very small part of it in place to cover these costs seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u11	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u12	I would have liked it if GroenLinks had tried to get this done at the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u13	It is clear, in itself, that Mrs Ellemeet states that we must use all kinds of tax money in order not to have to pay our own risk. It is interesting that this does not seem to be a cigar out of its own box, because I believe that taxpayers' money is also simply paid by people. But apart from that, yesterday her political foreman Klaver sat at Umberto Tan's table talking about his own risk. At Frits Wester's request what he would do to pay for his own risk, Mr Klaver suggested that you could save something on medicines, for example, on which big profits are made. Now it costs 4.7 billion to eliminate its own risk. I am very curious to see what part of that 4.7 billion GreenLinks is going to be able to achieve through targeted savings on medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u14	We all know that we do not save costs at our own risk. In fact, in the end, people with more severe health problems end up with a doctor and the costs increase. We also know that at your own risk, hospitals simply run their production and a less large group get more care. You might wonder if it helps. However, we can look at real solutions. There are still so many costs that can be saved in the hospital and in the doctors, for example by looking at which interventions make sense and which do not. There are all kinds of possibilities. We can look at the drugs. In addition, we can see if, with the surplus we have, it is only reasonable to keep our own risk right now. Then we don't put that bill down with the people who aren't already going to the doctor because they can't afford the care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u15	That is a lot of words, but I asked what Mr Klaver said yesterday. The only targeted measure he mentioned for financing this 4.7 billion was about medicines, because there are huge profits being made there. That's a popular story. I did a little digging into what we're spending on drugs. That's 4.9 billion. So we have 4.7 billion in costs for our own risk and we spend 4.9 billion on medicines. How do we match that? How much are we going to save on medicines, thanks to GroenLinks, so we don't have to increase our own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u16	It is very unfortunate, and perhaps also a bit indicative of the VVD, to use one example of Jesse Klaver's contribution to fund these costs, to mask the fact that its own risk does not work. It doesn't lead to cost savings. It only leads to people getting sicker and feeling more and more unhappy, because they do not dare to make the hallway to the doctor and to the pharmacy. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u17	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u18	I think the VVD is very honest about the fact that you don't just brush away the cost of your own risk. Mrs Ellemeet uses all kinds of words. First, she says it can be done from the general budget. That's taxpayers' money. That's what we pay with each other, so that's also a cigar out of our own box. Furthermore, she does not want to give a shine of certainty about the savings that her political leader predicted yesterday from the medicines.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So again, how much can we save on medicines so that we do not have to increase our own risk? I'd like a little more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u19	The savings on medicines can help to cover these costs. In addition, there are many other possibilities. We do not choose to keep all these billions of surpluses in government and to take them into account. It is only logical that we look at the needs of the people and that we offer a solution to them. That's what we're for as a government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u20	I suggest you continue, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u21	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was almost at the end of my speech. Its own risk will not rise next year. That is a good first step towards abolition, but if reducing one's own risk is still at the expense of people's wallets, then unfortunately we are not getting along very well with it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u22	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For those 800,000 Dutch people who, while paying their care premium, are in a payment scheme for one's own risk, not raising one's own risk is just a tissue for bleeding. For them, their own risk must be eliminated. Its own risk has now become so high that a quarter of the people who are ill postpone or delay care. Later they become more expensive patients. And what does it turn out to be? Just 40 minutes after the letter from the informant, the teletext, the jubilee messages from among others Sybrand Buma, who already talked about a coalition, and Mrs Keijzer's hosanna film, Minister Schippers sent a letter about it. Instead of raising your own risk by €15, the forming parties increase the care premium by €10. What a deception, Mr. Chairman! What kind of ridiculous cigar is that from your own box? Really? After almost six months of sitting inside, have the forming parties been completely disenchanted from reality? Did they think we'd all be in gardens? They are on a budget surplus from here to Tokyo, but all Dutch get a higher care premium as a treat rather than a higher own risk. It is really absurd. I had prepared another fine text with our neat arguments, the reasons why we do not only want to reduce our own risk, but want to eliminate it completely. But if the forming parties are fooling the entire Dutch people in this way, well, I will leave it at that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u24	Thank you. Mr Nijboer, I thought you wanted to interrupt, but it's your turn. I call Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The own risk is for a lot of people, especially if they are chronically ill, already in January a mountain they face: €385. If you're two, which are older and both need a lot of care, it's even over €700. That's really immense. The PvdA has therefore included in the electoral programme that its own risk should be eliminated. For the past few months, we've seen this coming. The cost of care is rising and the risk itself might also increase. For the summer, 74 MEPs compared with 76 MEPs said to the outgoing government: at least do not allow this increase to continue and take a first step with a reduction of €100. That €100 is not a bad thing, because CDA and ChristenUnie had €105 and €100 reduction in their own risk in the election programme respectively, and with the other parties that do not form, the opposition parties, that was even more, i.e. an abolition or even more than that €100. I also appeal to those parties to live up to that promise. Because in itself, as a PvdA, we are positive that the increase is not going to happen. But I do not think that the people who have followed the election campaign and have heard the promise of Buma and Mr Segers that they are going to lower their own risk by €100 are satisfied with the commitment that the increase of €15 will not happen and that they will also have to pay €10 additional premium. He's gonna join us. I really don't think that's enough. That really seems... Yeah, that's a party... Indeed, I saw some contented messages from colleagues on Facebook. I don't think people are happy about that. And I also think that they are rightly not satisfied with that. I believe that this step should be taken. I also call on the parties to do so in parliament. Mr. Chairman. When I received today the copy of the letter from the informant, I had to think of one image of Mr Zalm. "We don't carry him out," he said laughing at the Chamber of General Political Reviews. That was about a motion that was passed. That's the way this informant is dealing with the Chamber right now. Mr Klaver asked the informant for information in the course of the work. He's sitting there on behalf of the Chamber. He's been appointed on behalf of the Chamber. And we get a copy with an assignment to this minister in which is quite different, even the day after the Millions note was presented and the day after the Minister of Finance presented the cabinet decisions to our Chamber, President, to you. My question to the Minister is therefore whether she knew yesterday that this was coming? And did she deliberately inform the Chamber incompletely, improperly? Or didn't she hear about it until this afternoon? And what is her relationship with the informant who succeeded her, Mr Zalm, Mr Rutte, the Prime Minister, and Mr Zijlstra, the group leader? That's no way to do it, is it? Is that how they put you in your shirt? Is that what happened? I call on the forming parties to make their missionary statements here in the Last week, the same parties who are now proud rejected another motion. They have said jointly and severally: we do not want it, we do not carry it out and we do not want that risk to be reduced. What is this way of doing, Mr President, in this democratic relationship?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u26	I am a little surprised at Mr Nijboer's contribution, because in this outgoing cabinet, is it his party that could have put a stop to raising the own risk to €400? The Labour Party has arranged for 270 million to be added to primary school staff. So I'm listening and I think: well, so passionate; that should have worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u27	Mrs Dijkstra has voted jointly and severally against reducing his own risk. The Minister has indicated that she will carry it out if the Chamber so wishes. It's in the Millions Note. D66 did, the Christian Union did, the CDA did and the VVD did. And in a democracy, Mrs Dijkstra, Parliament is in charge. That's up to a majority. You know the teacher's salaries went the same way. You pretend that was very easy and generous, but then you didn't do it here, in the Chamber where it's supposed to happen. D66, the party that should be the first to do so, has also arranged it through the back door. And you're gonna take me by measure now? Are you serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u28	Yeah, I really mean that, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u29	Is that your line of defense for $15?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u30	... there was a motion that wants to lower its own risk and then the forming parties come a week later with the announcement that they are going to reverse the increase in their own risk. That's something other than a reduction. I do not know if you are aware of this, but we are really talking about something quite different from the motion that was raised here in the Chamber last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u31	Mr. Chairman. I see it very precisely, because I have done all the debates, with Mrs Marijnissen and with all my colleagues. The fact that the increase had to be taken off the table was simply for the vote. In fact, it was very general: calls on the government to develop proposals to make it possible. There was every possible room and you just voted against it. You should just stand up for that and not try to get away from a missionary cabinet that can't do anything and about something that you have said controversially. And then we think: well, we get away with it and we lower it by €15. No one's gonna fall for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The fact that there are so many people in the public gallery at this hour proves how important this subject is for all Dutch people. And yes, all of a sudden the last few hours have been very politically turned upside down The Hague, because in 2018 its own risk will not rise to €400, but will remain €385, just like this year. A difference of €15. On the other hand, however, the premium increases by about €10 extra. So a net difference of €5. As far as 50PLUS is concerned, this is not really something to cheer about. That's 41 cents a month, ladies and gentlemen. The CDA has stated that they consider solidarity in healthcare to be important. But to what extent do you achieve this? Will people really use more care with this minimal difference? Does this really improve solidarity? The group chairman, Mr Buma, even talks about a coalition on Twitter. Is it there already, Mr. Chairman? Mr President, you may not have heard me, but on Twitter Mr Buma already speaks of a coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u34	I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u35	I was wondering if there was one yet. In that case, we ask whether the declaration of government will be sent to us as soon as possible. And also the Christian Union writes on its site that in this way they show that they find solidarity between being sick and healthy of great importance. I would like to repeat once again the question of whether there will really be fewer people who are worried about this minimum difference. The number of care avoiders is 10%. How about 41 cents a month? Is solidarity really improving? 50PLUS says to the CDA and the Christian Union: how dare you sell this under the guise of solidarity? Another party shouts on Twitter: "Beautiful!" Another party shouts, "Good news!" Let me be clear: as far as 50PLUS is concerned, it is only good and good news if the own risk is reduced by a considerable amount and the premiums do not increase. To speak to former political reporter Wouke van Scherrenburg: this is a consolation prize. Mr. Chairman. The reason for this 30-member debate is a report by the NIVEL, which again showed that people avoid care for financial reasons. The many poignant examples of people I hear cannot be ignored. There's got to be, and there's got to be another way. It should not be the case in this country that people avoid care because they cannot afford it. We can ensure that this does not happen here, and it really must be done with measures other than 41 cents a month. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Earlier, in April of this year, we talked about care avoidance because of high care costs, own risk and own contribution. I have nothing to add to what I said at the time. However, the debate has an advantage at the moment. It gives me the opportunity to say the following. A budget was presented yesterday. There is an increase in our own risk in this budget. For many people, the constant increase in own risk has now resulted in an amount that cannot be borne anymore. Solidarity in care is important for the CDA. That is why I am pleased to say that the four forming parties have agreed to reverse the proposed change for their own risk in 2018. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u38	That went very fast in one go. A question for Mrs Keijzer. The letter we have just received from the Minister, who I understand was sent mainly at your request and from the other forming parties, says literally that 'the consequence of the change in the law is that for those who make great use of care, their own risk will be €15 lower than proposed in the budget, and against that every adult insured person will have to pay about €10 more in premium'. That's what my question is about. Mrs Keijzer, do you support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u39	This is inherent in the system we have with each other, but it is inherent in any choice you make. In the end, you'll always have to cover an expense. In the system as we have it, this means that the premium is increasing. At the same time, we have agreed that people up to certain incomes will be compensated in the healthcare allowance. That should appeal to the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u40	The latter certainly appeals to the SP. What's less appealing to us is broken election promises. Your election programme says that €105 should be removed from its own risk. That is a bit different than freezing on the €385 it was and which it apparently remains. Of course we need cover. But last month, for example, there was a report in the newspaper that hospitals are paying hundreds of millions too much. That's about the 8 billion for the purchase of resources. An investigation shows that hundreds of millions can be saved. The freezing costs, I believe, EUR 150 or 170 million. Mrs. Keijzer, wouldn't it be better if you took the purchase instead of taking the people in their wallets?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u41	Of course, you'll have to look more broadly at care in the future. What you are now putting forward is, of course, one of those points. How come we don't buy tools much sharper than we do? That is absolutely also a point for the future. All the ideas that are there to ultimately reduce healthcare costs are, of course, very attractive. The best thing we can do with each other to prevent a premium increase is spend less on care. But I'm a little surprised somewhere, too. On 7 September, Mrs Marijnissen tabled another motion asking the government not to increase its own risk for 2018 in any case. There is now an increase in the budget. The four forming parties say that at least in 2018 that amount will decrease. So yes, I would think that Mrs Marijnissen would be able to speak about this intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u42	If Mrs Keijzer is paying attention, she knows that we are not going to allow a moment in the Chamber to say that we want to abolish the fine on sick people. We'd like to get rid of that tomorrow. That was in our election program. It has been calculated by the CPB and it shows that it is feasible and affordable. I just made a specific proposal to you, Mrs Keijzer, following an investigation last month, simply to pay for the freezing of one's own risk. So that's without it leading to a premium increase, because I understand very well that people say: yes, that's a cigar out of their own box. My question to Mrs Keijzer is: do you have in your election programme that you want to reduce your own risk? You know that a two-thirds majority in the Chamber agrees with you, don't you? Then why don't you take care of that with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u43	This has to do with the fact that, unlike the SP, the CDA did sit down at the table to see how we could come to a government. And then you make compromises. The SP doesn't want that. Well, that's the good right of the SP, but that means you're not achieving anything. The SP's plans for care are a complete revolution of the system. I think that you, Mrs Marijnissen, should go back and talk to a lot of nurses, doctors, doctors, and you should mention it all about whether they are so happy about it. In any case, the CPB has shown in its calculation that this change in the system costs billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u44	Ma'am, rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u45	Right, Mr. Chairman. Finally. We certainly want this change in the system, because we want to get rid of 11 billion reserves on the shelf. We want to get rid of 1.3 billion in bureaucracy. We want to save 750 million by tackling the pharmaceutical industry. We want these hundreds of millions that we can win on the buy-in, because then we can make sure that our own risk is eliminated without it leading to more premium payments. You, Mrs Keijzer, say you have to compromise. I think everyone understands that it has to be the moment you start to rule. But you also know this room is missionary. The own risk was a very important election theme. You know that a two-thirds majority supports you to reduce it by €100. There is now an urgent procedure to freeze it, but why not an emergency procedure to reduce its own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u46	Many subjects are discussed at the table, and this is just one of the subjects for which an urgent procedure must be followed if you want to change anything about them. And that's something different than waving the interrupting microphone with an article in which you can find cover. That is what we, as CDA, advocated at that table, and I am glad that we were able to achieve that at least before 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, I have a very simple question for Mrs Keijzer, namely whether she thinks it is desirable to maintain the same level of risk financially offset by raising the premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u49	It's not so much interesting or... What was the word Mrs Ellemeet used?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u50	Whether you consider it desirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u51	Do I think that's desirable? If you want to change that, you're talking about a giant change in the system, and you just can't make it in the short term. This is the most feasible at the moment and this is also what I, as a CDA, say: then we have to do it with each other. So that's why we're making this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u52	But does Mrs Keijzer think it is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u53	Yeah, what is it again? Between wishes and thoughts stand...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u54	Between dream and deed, laws stand in the way and practical objections!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u55	Of course, Mr. Baudet always knows these things. But, Mrs Ellemeet, you know what I mean. You're talking to each other... Quite rightly, because we are well aware that there is a budget with an increase to €400. For many people, these annual increases are now leading to an amount that cannot be borne. This, together with the fact that solidarity between sick and healthy matters to the CDA, is good that there is now a proposal on the table to reverse this increase for 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u56	But if there are alternatives and another way of compensating for this increase in costs so that the bill does not end up with a premium increase in people, then Mrs Keijzer would prefer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u57	You should never stop thinking, but I'll take a look at the plans of GroenLinks. There are billions of dollars in taxes to pay, among other things. A tax on flowers! They make people happy, you'd say. Why would you want to raise the tax on that? There is even a proposal to tax the AOW. I wonder what the target group of chronically ill and disabled people, in which there are a lot of elderly people, would think of that. Then I think: you have to keep thinking. But at the same time, you have to look very closely at how you're going to pay for that. 'Cause there's no such thing as free. My father always says that, but it doesn't exist in The Hague either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u58	In conclusion. In addition to a lot of other words that have little to do with this subject, I hear Mrs Keijzer say: if there is another way to cover these costs so that they do not end up with the premium, then she would be open to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u59	In general, yes, but honesty commands me to say that there is now a proposal from four forming parties in which we are really taking a substantial step. That step is: at least reverse the increase in 2018. I have to stick to that, but otherwise, of course, you never have to stop thinking and listen to good ideas.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u60	Without calling into question the whole world and without doing the budgetary treatment here, I want to stick to this issue. But I do want to go back to the past. Since joining this Chamber in 2012, Ms Keijzer of the CDA has always argued for those who did not dare to go to the doctor because of the high personal risk. She's always made a point of avoiding care. It has now become known that the own risk remains at €385. My simple question to her would be: are people going to avoid less care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u61	The debate we had in April on avoiding care was not just about avoiding care because of its own risk. That was about all your own payments in the care. That's what I've always been so concerned about, the accumulation of care costs. You can also address me on that. Now there is a proposal not to introduce the increase in own risk in 2018 but to reduce its own risk to €385. You were able to debate with us in April about what that ultimately means for avoiding care. Meanwhile, in August, there has been a conference, where at least one thing has become very clear, namely this: people who have problems with their own risk often have multiple financial problems. It is therefore of the utmost importance, in my view, to take a broader look than just one's own risk. That was agreed at the time, as you can read in the documents. So I do not know the answer to the question of whether this will have an effect on the avoidance of care, but I do think that we should keep a close eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u62	Keeping an eye on whether people are going to avoid care because of their own risk, we don't make sure people don't avoid care anymore. I actually asked a very specific question, but now it is being extended to stacking. A toddler learns that you stack with cubes and that every cube counts. One of these cubes is the increase, or stay equal to the own risk at €385. Mrs Keijzer stated in her own election programme that she was advocating €105 reduction. Now can we talk about a broken election promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u63	Then it would be interesting to look at the DENK electoral programme and the proposals contained in it, but also to look very closely at its coverage. Because I think that is a bit of a point in this Chamber. It's sprinkled at 3.7 billion as if it's nothing, but on many points I don't see the cover for it by far. The CDA has always said that it has to lower its own risk. Is that on the table right now? No. At the same time, however, there is a compromise on the table, which I at least say will help people. It is a good thing for people that at least their own risk does not increase to €400 in 2018. Your name, Mr Kuzu, I believe was also under Mrs Marijnissen's motion of 7 September. You should also be pleased, because we are actually doing what you ask in that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u64	Mrs Keijzer is well aware that this motion was the culmination of various motions asking for the elimination of one's own risk or for the reduction of one's own risk by €100. In the end, Mrs Keijzer, the CDA, voted against it. Then there was a motion asking for the equalisation of one's own risk. Mrs Keijzer also voted against it at the time. We can go over the entire DENK election program with each other. In his election programme, DENK advocates the elimination of one's own risk. The CDA is at the formation table. DENK isn't sitting at the formation table. My conclusion is that the CDA manages to manage at the formation table that it is not rising any further. But there can only be one answer to my question of whether an election promise has been broken: yes, an election promise has been broken by the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u65	In the motion of 7 September it said: "Ask the government not to increase its own risk for 2018 in any case," the PvdA was also underneath; there you have him again, Nijboer "and to investigate with what amount the own risk can be reduced." Well, we did. Why are you so angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u66	You may respond briefly, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u67	I'm not angry at all, Madam President. But disappointed, especially because of the fact that an election promise is broken by the CDA. For there is no reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u69	That is not correct, Mr President. It is indeed a reduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u70	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u71	That last remark too: I think a lot of people no longer understand what we are doing here. A debate on our own risk for the summer. For the elections promises of reduction: by far the majority of the parties people voted for. Before the summer chamber motions, because the cabinet can't know anything. Everyone knows nothing. They were still forming. Then, last week, October 1st came close. Then everyone knew: we have to decide now; we have to do it now as a room. And parties all vote against it. And now €15 buys off the solidarity between healthy and ill in the Netherlands. This is it, I ask Mrs Keijzer. Is this all you're going to mean to people at your own risk in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u72	That is a question of formation, and that is a question of further planning. And as you know, I just can't say anything about it. This is where we had to operate. If we wanted something here, we'd have to get an emergency bill through the Chamber. The forming parties have been sitting together, have found that something has to happen here before 2018 and that is what they have done next. So if you say that a lot of people don't understand it, I can go along with it in a way, because people think: there is still much more in the care, there is still much more in the labour market, there is still much more in the area of sustainability? That's right. Absolutely. But you're really gonna have to wait for that. Quite specifically, at least the four forming parties have said to each other: something has to be done here before 2018, that needs an emergency law, and that is what we are going to do. Is that entirely in line with the plans of the CDA or the plans of D66 or VVD or Christian Union? No. But that, as you know, is what you do when you sit together as forming parties and see if you can come to a government together. Then you'll have to compromise. And this is one where at least the Dutch citizen, the Dutch chronically ill or disabled, has something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u73	I don't think they're gonna be on the banks for it. I asked Mrs Keijzer if this is it for the coming period. Mrs Keijzer also knows that for the coming period there is still a risk increase of around €100 in the pipeline. So he's not even off the table yet, I understand. It is not even off the table, I notice, because you make no promises about it. Is this it for next year? Is the €15 with €10 premium increase for next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u74	No. I'm falling into repetitions. This is one part we pulled out because we have to. If you don't, it's a budget that you're partly responsible for and then your own risk increases to €400.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u75	Finally, Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u76	Yes, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u77	In response to the question as to whether this is the case for 2018: no, there are many issues at the table with consequences for 2018, but you will really have to wait for the coalition agreement to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u78	The Chamber is missionary and the PvdA is responsible for our voting behaviour here, both before and after the elections. And we have voted time and again for abolition, reduction, freezing our own risk. So I would like neither Mrs Keijzer nor Mrs Dijkstra nor anyone else to remind me that we are responsible for a higher risk of our own. We have done everything in our parliamentary power to reduce it. And it would adorn Mrs Keijzer if she did not settle for just freezing but if she also took a first step next year. I can understand why that $100 isn't gonna be there in one year. But even that first step, which must also be taken before 1 October, she doesn't even realize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u79	But here too, the question to the PvdA is: how are you going to pay it? You pay it out of tax increases. Certainly, I hear Mr Nijboer say. That is, of course, the issue here. For everything you do, you're gonna have to find cover eventually. The four parties that sit together, as different as they are and as different as they look at care and their own risk, have now agreed with each other that the increase in their own risk for 2018 will be undone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u80	I don't envy Mrs Keijzer in her position. Indeed, she has always been concerned about the level of one's own risk and about people avoiding care. And now she even says that this is a substantial step, €0.41 per month. I would like to hear from you, Mrs Keijzer, whether you are also prepared to look for measures to freeze that premium increase or at least bring it down. And as far as coverage is concerned, of course, we have a lot of savings on the shelf. That's money from all of us. If that's what we need for care, then it's not wrong at all to get it out of the piggy bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u81	Before the recess we had a general discussion about what is in the package of insured care. Mrs. Sazias was there too. I interrupted her then, because all she did there was make proposals to expand the insured package. At least you know that the premium is increasing and that the risk is increasing. In fact, the answer to Mrs Sazias' question is: yes, of course I am prepared to do so. Mrs Ellemeet has already asked me that question. Of course I'm prepared to do that. But that does require parties like 50PLUS to think about what's in that package, what else they want to push in, and what that means. I know what that means. That means an increase in the premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u82	50PLUS is for a healthy country. We really want to make political choices for this, because in many cases it is also just political choices. You refer to things that we want extra coverage, such as oral hygiene. That would be huge in the cost of care, because it could make you very sick if it doesn't work out. But that aside. We are now going to proceed with the urgent procedure for this law. We're gonna talk about it in detail on Tuesday. I am sure that as a missionary chamber we also want the premiums not to rise. We really need to find a solution to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u83	Just before this debate, Mrs Keijzer sent a video to the world via Twitter, in which she says that a lot of people can no longer face their own risks. That's right. They can't do it anymore, not an increase, but their own risk. A quarter of the people refrain from caring in the second line after their GP, the gatekeeper, has said they need to be forwarded. 'Cause they can't afford to risk themselves. That's why a quarter of people don't care. 800,000 people are in a payment scheme at their own risk, while paying their care premium neatly. And then I see Mrs Keijzer pissing off all my colleagues here because she doesn't like their cover. But since the elections, since all the coverage of all those parties and since all the credit transfers of the Central Planning Office and so on, the income position of this country has changed dramatically. Last year there was EUR 4 billion left, and this year there was EUR 6 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u84	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u85	In the future, in the coming years, there will be 13 billion euros left. Why does Mrs Keijzer leave those 800,000 people in the payment scheme, knowing that so many people can't take their own risks and sending a video into the world where she says so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u86	I have said that I would very much like to repeat here that the increase in own risk for many people has become a huge problem, and that is why I think it is so good that we, as four forming parties, have put a change in it before 2018. There are people who have a payment scheme, absolutely. I fully agree with Mrs Agema. There are also people who sometimes don't even go to the GP because they think they're losing their own risk. We had this debate with each other in April. Several proposals have been made, for example to improve the provision of information. Together with Mrs Ellemeet, I have tabled another motion, which has also been adopted by the Chamber, which states: explain to people for whom you have lost your own risk and not your own. Municipalities received 268 million to compensate people on low incomes for their own risks. That is precisely the group that Mrs Agema is right to raise here. All that must be done, without a doubt. At the same time, I welcome the fact that I am standing here and can say to you that we have not only talked, but there is now also a proposal to reverse the increase in our own risk in 2018. Is that exactly the CDA's election program? No, but that's what we're dealing with in this country. The CDA has 19 seats, no 76 seats. None of us can carry out our own election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u87	Mrs Keijzer acknowledges that there are 800,000 people who are in a payment scheme at their own risk while they are already paying the care premium. She acknowledges that a quarter of the people, while already being forwarded by a general practitioner with worries, refrain from caring in the second line because they can't afford to pay for their own risk. That is why I ask Mrs Keijzer: why do not you do anything, when the income position of our country has changed so dramatically? Why don't you do something when last year there was 4 billion left, this year 6 billion and later 13 billion? Why aren't you happy with a raise when you could've helped all those people? Are you engaged in a regime position or are you working on this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u88	You can't clap in the public gallery. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u89	If such a tirade were to lead to the reduction of one's own risk or even to abolition, as I read in the PVV election programme, that would be fantastic. By the way, the same PVV, who hasn't calculated anything in the first place, is still a few hundred million short in its own election programme to pay for this. I do not deny the fact that the ever-increasing increase in own risk is gradually becoming a problem for many people. That's what I said here. What did we do as a CDA? Not the most ideal, but we have managed to reverse the increase in the 2018 budget. That is something very concrete and useful to people, other than telling them here what is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u90	Mrs Keijzer continues to bullshit about other people's coverage and election programmes, but first let me say that that 3.7 billion was the amount we all had in the summer of 2016. That was based on Care Choices in Map. The higher amount did not arrive until February 2017. So we simply couldn't know that, but by now the income position of our country has changed dramatically. I am now asking Mrs Keijzer for the third time. How is it that you sit at the table and form, but that with all the billions left on the budget, there is no CDA who says: "There are so many people who can't bear the risk anymore. We really need to do something for that. They have to get out of the payment scheme, they have to get out of the misery, they have to get out of the consideration whether or not they go to the doctor. That must be over." Why didn't the CDA just pull that off?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u91	Because there are other things that need to be done, if you look at all the expenses that are necessary and which are also included in the CDA election programme: police, justice, security, counter-terrorism, taxes, you name it all. You're gonna have to wait for that. That comes with the coalition agreement. What could have happened today, because there was enough clarity at the formation table, and what we had to do today, if we wanted to get a legislative change through by 1 October, is what we did, with ultimately a reduction in our own risk in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u92	Mrs Marijnissen, you have just been extended, but you will have the opportunity to ask one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u93	I have a very brief question, Madam President. I hear Mrs Keijzer say that in his election programme the CDA has said 'please take €105 off', but unfortunately the CDA does not have 76 seats. Perhaps I can please Mrs Keijzer with the following news. It is true that you do not have 76 seats, but you have a majority of 98 seats behind you in favour of reducing your own risk by €100. We are now going to do an urgent procedure to freeze our own risk. Why not take an urgent procedure to reduce the risk by €100, if you know that there is a large majority in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u94	Because we as parties have to work together to form a government. The SP has been asked several times: do you want to sit at the table? The SP didn't want that, the SP didn't dare; I don't know. We are sitting at the table to see where we can find each other to form a government for this country. If you'll excuse me, so be it. Well, I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u95	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u96	Thank you, Mr President. No less than a quarter of Dutch people avoid care as a result of the high own risk, according to research. Of the chronically ill, even three out of ten people avoid care and support because of the high costs. These people needed care, but were not treated because they could not pay the bill. Think about it: chronically ill people, people with disabilities and elderly people often lose their own contribution by default at the beginning of the year. In doing so, municipalities ask for all kinds of additional contributions for care and all kinds of care laws and regulations are mixed up. It's a whole puzzle to find out how much care costs you've lost as a chronically ill person. A build-up of care costs is even causing people to get into debt. This is shocking and unacceptable. Solidarity in care has been under pressure for a long time. Privatisation of care and market forces have ensured that many healthcare institutions are committed to maximizing profits. It's at the expense of the patient. Healthcare insurers have become cumbersome bureaucratic institutions. Each health insurance must make separate arrangements with healthcare organisations and there are managers, sub-managers and sub-managers. So the money is not used for the sick and the needy. The Animal Party, fortunately with a number of other parties in this Chamber, wants to avoid one's own risk and sees the recourse to the reserve of health insurers and to stop the bureaucracy, commerce and waste as something that absolutely needs to be for those who need care the most. Several patient organisations today, in a letter to the Chamber, called for simplification of the information and rules, maximum cost of care and reduction of their own payments for chronically ill and people with disabilities. They write: "Make sure that people with long-term care demand are not prevented by their own payments and can use care, appropriate to their care demand and gravity." I would like a response from the Minister to this letter from the patient organisations and their appeal to the forming parties to take these recommendations to heart. The Party for Animals believes that care should be accessible to everyone, whether you are poor or rich, for a while sick or chronically ill, no matter what church you live in. It is a shame to cut back on the foundations of our healthcare system, then spend all the money on the wrong things, such as bureaucracy, and put the bill on the sick. It's unworthy of a civilized social society. It is hardly good news that the forming parties at the end of October do not want to increase their own risk by €15 in 2018, because their own risk is still far too high with €385. Then raising the care premium by €10 is a disgrace, incomprehensible. Again, the Animal Party would like to see its own risk eliminated, but at least significantly reduced. Therefore, we will co-sign two motions of the SP that call for a reduction in the own risk in 2018 and not an increase in the healthcare premium. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u97	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Pia Dijkstra. I see Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u98	Mr President, may I make a point of order? I also see Mr Arno Rutte of the VVD on the list of speakers, but he seems to be refusing to speak here. I find that inappropriate in a debate, Mr President, if you are the largest party in the country and announce a change with a big drum roll just one day after the Millions Note. That's not a way of doing things here in Parliament, is it, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u99	Mr. Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u100	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm being addressed, and I'd like to comment on that as well. Mr President, this is a 30-member debate and the VVD has not supported this debate. In other debates, you apply for zero minutes in such a case, but the rules in this house do not allow for a thirty-member debate. I have tried, but if I register, I seem to automatically register for three minutes. I have just indicated to you that I do not want my speaking time. If we want that to be different, then we have to change the procedures. I am open to that, but that is why I do not have my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u101	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u102	Mr President, I would like to see it different, because in a debate it is nice that people put forward their views and colleagues also have the opportunity to ask questions about them. I have questions for Mr Rutte. I can't ask him a little questions here from the benches. That's not the use. I would therefore ask Mr Rutte to take part in the debate. He doesn't have to say anything about me. Then we'll ask questions. I think other colleagues have questions too. Surely it is not possible for the country's largest party to refuse to take part in a debate on its own risk, Mr President? That's a show of nothing in a democracy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u103	In addition: I remember that I also got it once that I thought to sit there quietly and listen a bit, but that was not allowed to me. So perhaps this is indeed the time to call Mr Rutte to the front and to have a moment to talk about things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u104	This is a subject that affects a lot of people, so it would be very desirable if the VVD were to be so courageous as to explain its position.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u105	Mr Rutte, you did interrupt Mrs Ellemeet because you were on the list. I let you do that. So Mr Baudet has a point. If you interrupt, you should also take part in the debate. I didn't know you were going to retreat. That's what you said after you interrupted. I would just like to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u106	Mr President, I am genuinely aware of no evil. We often have debates here for which we register for zero minutes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u107	No, that's not the issue here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u108	...but interrupting. I've done it more often.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u109	No, only in VAOs, not in 30 member debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u110	Mr President, that is correct. You can do that at VAOs, but you'll interrupt. I've been trying to sign up for zero minutes. I couldn't. That was three minutes. I've posted an interruption, assuming that that's possible. If you insist that I make a contribution here, I will. But it's a procedural thing. And as for your own risk, everyone knows how the VVD feels about it. I'd like to tell you again here. Even this debate, which I did not support, simply because we had the same debate in April. That's why I didn't support it. If you think it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u111	No, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u112	... according to the rules would be that I do speak here, then of course I'm going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u113	Mr President, I think that in the debate we... Isn't this a rage from the opposition in the process of being angry? First, all the debates are stopped. We have rules when we do have a debate. Then they register, and then they do not participate in the debate. While people are really busy at home, the biggest party in the country doesn't want to participate. However, I would urge Mr Rutte to stand there and speak and let us ask our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u114	It's obvious. I'll leave it to you, Mr. Rutte. You've been called in. Of course you are free to speak or not to speak, but you have been called upon to speak on behalf of your group. Then colleagues will also have the opportunity to ask questions. I shall now go to Mr Arno Rutte. I'd like you all to sit down. It's gotta start and you're ready. I call Mr Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u115	Mr President, you would almost think: no matter what I say, people want to ask questions. I'm open to that. No problem at all. Moreover, we have had this kind of debate before. We have also asked each other more questions. Mr. Chairman. If you're sick and you're facing your own payment, whatever, it's extremely annoying. No one will be happy about that, so no one here will say that it is very nice that we have a risk of our own. At the same time, we must pay attention to the affordability of care and solidarity, including for all those who are healthy and who pay the premium. That is why the VVD always says: you will have to pay part of the care yourself and the rest we pay with each other in the premium. In this way, we guarantee solidarity. That is what we stand for, just as we stand for the decision taken today on behalf of the forming parties to freeze the level of their own risk next year, bearing in mind that their own risk does hurt. I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u116	It is clear that the VVD thinks it is easy to get rid of this. That is very special, once again because the VVD is the only party in this parliament that sits in the outgoing cabinet and sits at the formation table. So if there is one party here in Parliament that affects what we heard yesterday in the throne speech and what we were able to read today in a letter from Minister Schippers, then it is your party, Mr Rutte. So it gives absolutely no pass to try to dive here tonight and stay seated. Having said that, you say: we must keep care affordable. I think everyone agrees with you, but do you also believe that the risk is ultimately paid now, only by the people who are ill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u117	The affordability of care is also about the relationship between what people pay themselves and what we pay with each other. More than half of the Dutch use no care and pay only premium, another part uses part of the care and others always carry out their own risk. That balance is incredibly important. If you look at the letter the minister sent today, you'll see that if you're moaning at your own risk, which is paid somewhere else, for example in the bounty. I say to everyone who claims here that there is a sort of simple disappearing act that eliminates their own risk by saying'shame' and more of that: yes, Hans Klok can, but in the real world the removal of one's own risk simply costs money, money that citizens simply have to pay. The VVD considers it extremely important that we monitor the balance between what people pay themselves when they use care and what people pay with each other, even if they don't use care. That is extremely important for now and for the future. I don't dive for that. I've been telling that story for years and years. Anyone can know that. Anyone who e-mails me will be told. In every debate I hold with everyone, I tell this story, extremely consistently, as the SP is also consistent, but we think differently about things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u118	Mr Rutte once again uses the term 'use of care'. I deliberately opened my argument with the sentence: don't worry, care you need. That's not a choice, Mr. Rutte. Yes, I see you shaking your head in despair, so I hope you will agree to that. Do you think care is a choice if you need it? My second question is this. We have arranged our own risk in the Netherlands in such a way that it will not run until you pass the GP. So it's only when a trained health care professional, the GP, who has a lot of confidence in the SP, says someone needs a referral, for example to the hospital, that self-risk counter is going to run. Do you not actually indicate that you have no confidence in this general practitioner when you say that there is apparently unnecessary care or that people are using care that is not really at issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u119	I've been put in the mouth of a lot of things. I told you to keep the balance between the people who are taking care. These are people who need care and the people who only pay for that care. Exactly how you strike that balance is kind of tricky. But it is extremely easy to say here: the penalty for being sick must be removed. If you put it away, it's just gonna cost money. You're gonna have to pay for that money. That is what we will have to achieve together. There are no simple solutions for this. I'm just being honest about that. Sometimes you don't win the popularity prize, but that honesty is ultimately the best story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u120	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u121	Finally, when the VVD talks about honesty, I always pay extra attention, especially when it comes to care, Mr. Rutte. For what amazes me greatly is that you say: we must keep it affordable. But is there anyone here who contradicts that? Is there anyone here who says, no, the care is free? No, no one says that here, Mr. Rutte. There are a number of parties here in the Chamber who have said: either eliminate or reduce the risk; we are also proposing cover. Then you can wave it all away by saying 'I don't find that interesting', but then my question to you is: do you not agree with me that it is just a political choice and that you are actually okay with the €385, which is a fine on sick, coming from the people who need care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u122	When we talk about political choices, I know a party that turned the elections into a kind of single issue. In care, everything had to change. The direct political competitor lost 29 seats and despite that story another seat went off. So is that such a believable story? We can get along with each other all kinds of things. I'm standing here for the story of the VVD. That has been a consistent story for years about finding a fair balance between what people have to pay themselves and what we pay each other for, just to ensure that we can still pay for care in the future; so no easy talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u123	The VVD has always been clear. She is not at a lower risk of her own, so I did not intend to ask Mr Rutte in this debate how to move him to vote at a lower risk. He doesn't want to; that's obvious. But I'd like to know how it goes and what the positions are. I want to be clear about that, too. What is very difficult is that parties in the Chamber are voting against motions, which happened last week while the same parties then come out with a big drum roll and say: we have managed to get €15; it's great people! So my question to you is: did you get what you want now that the reduction of one's own risk is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u124	The VVD, as Mr Nijboer knows, sits at the formation table. Mr Nijboer does not sit there with his party; Mr Nijboer does not want to sit there with his party. If you form together, it's a process of wigs and roads. You look at what is possible and impossible and you may gradually get more insight into the other desires that are there and what that all means. At the moment we have decided that it is possible and that we do not want to increase our own risk next year either. I agree with Mr Nijboer that this is a rather messy picture because we may have to do things now with steam and boiling water. But I think that's better than not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u125	I think so, too. My second question, since it was Prince's Day yesterday, is: when did Mr Rutte know that this decision would be taken? He's a caretaker and sits at those formation tables. When was the decision not to increase taken? It's been pre-arranged, too. Can Mr Rutte explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u126	There haven't been any preliminary talks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u127	No? There has been a debate on this in the Chamber. It's all tuned, because we keep hearing "it's on the formation table." We can all read that in the reports. You've never talked to the forming parties about their own risk and when... It was not so that people thought: we wait for Prince's Day and then we pretend to reverse it; then we can pretend to lower it, while remaining at the same level? None of that has been discussed? It happens half a day after the budget has been presented? That all just happened to be on the table at the last minute, today?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u128	Mr Nijboer asks me if there have been any preliminary talks on what has come out today. I can tell him that: no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u129	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u130	But when did Mr Rutte, as the caretaker of the VVD, know that this proposal would be made? An hour before this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u131	An hour before this debate, I think there was a long and wide exchange of letters at the Chamber, so Mr Nijboer knew it too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u132	This is a word game. Then I say four hours before this debate. I don't know exactly, but that letter just came in when this discussion has been going on for months.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u133	Yeah, just before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u134	Were you not at all involved in the discussion about the reduced own risk? Has it not been discussed in recent weeks between the forming parties that this was an option? Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u135	If you're talking about financing care and own payments, that's a broad and complex discussion. Mr Nijboer asks me if I have been extensively involved in the decision that has been taken today. The answer is: I heard that this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u136	But I didn't ask. I asked him if he knew. That is important, because we are having public debates here. It's supposed to be in a democracy. I really think it's becoming a mess. We get a letter from an informant who orders a minister, while the Chamber... That's not right of state law at all. I'm trying to get clarity here about a process that doesn't look like anything. If Mr. Rutte says "I didn't know; I hear it," then who decides? Then who decides and at what time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u137	Mr Nijboer has interrupted me six times, but he has received an honest answer from me, as it is. He wanted to know when I knew about this measure as it is now before me and then I say: shortly in advance. And so it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u138	The VVD is fair. It is clear from this debate that the VVD group is not involved in the negotiations. That's one. The second is that I found Mr Zijlstra's reaction, co-negotiator, typical. The own risk remains at €385. And then he actually says: hooray, we are aware that in recent years there has been a very strong increase in one's own risk. In his opinion, that's justifiable. And then he says, "Be glad you don't have to pay your own risk," because that means you're going through life in a healthy way. What does that say about the social image of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u139	I do not know what Mr Kuzu's social image is, but I think that people who do not have to pay their own risk should be happy with it, because that would make them healthy. That is what Mr Zijlstra says, and it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u140	So that is exactly the social image of the VVD. A lot of people in this country say they can't afford their own risk. A lot of people indicate that they avoid care because of their own risk. And you're actually saying, like Mr Zijlstra: oh boy, smile, be happy with it, man, you don't have to pay it yourself. Is that the social image of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u141	Mr Kuzu is now making a very strange caricature. There are people who have to pay their own risk. For them, that's absolutely not funny. 'Hooray' is not what Mr Zijlstra said either. The people who pay the premium will probably get a premium increase. They're not gonna like that. That's not funny, either. He says to them, "Be glad you don't have to pay your own risk." I think that is exactly what Mr Kuzu himself thinks. If that is not the case, then I am curious, because that would be a completely new insight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u142	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u143	I can see why Mr Rutte of the VVD wanted to dive for this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u144	On 7 September we had a debate here with the Minister. Then she indicated that, if we want to change something about our own risk, we have to do it in time, before 1 October. I would like to add my voice to Mr Nijboer's question. That debate was 13 days ago. Has Mr Rutte not discussed it with the other forming parties for thirteen days that, if something should be done about it, it should be done quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u145	That term is known, but I didn't have that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u146	So Mr Rutte says that the VVD spokesperson's concern has not been discussed about the message that something should be changed before 1 October in order to prevent its own risk from rising. So all this time there has been this given silence between the care spokesmen sitting at the formation table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u147	It's just a fact that it's October 1st. That has been known since the debate. I do not know what it is like at GroenLinks, but if something is shared here in a debate, I do not need to call my group chairman or the other negotiator separately to say: something has been said in the debate, please note that. They'll know. That's not news, is it? It would be weird if I had to do that, a little unprofessional.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u148	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u149	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. It is remarkable that there have been no discussions about this. My final question concerns the link that is now being made between freezing the level of own risk and increasing the premium. Does Mr Rutte prefer not to have that link, so that the premium does not increase further by freezing his own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u150	If you change anything about your own risk... Let me put it this way. The premium, the own risk and the part paid by employers, that is to say the other half of the premium, must jointly cover all the health care costs we incur in what we call curative health care. Those costs could increase. I'd like to see that don't happen. If we could take measures not to allow this to happen, then the risk would not increase. But those two are connected. So if you make choices, for example, to freeze your own risk while the care costs increase, then that just has consequences for the premium. You can hide it somewhere else, like GroenLinks wants. For example, you can put it in all kinds of taxes. That's a big vanishing act, but it doesn't make it any different. Then let's just keep it clear and keep the care costs clear in the care system. If people then have problems with paying, then of course we have to do customization: care allowance, municipal arrangements, everything and everything. It is sometimes forgotten that it is, but that is also important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u151	Mr. Rutte claims they're so honest with the VVD. I have a question for him: how much do you think is "a few"?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u152	A pair is usually two.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u153	Ah. So if I read on your site "the first few hundred euros you use to care, you pay yourself," then you actually mean the first 200 euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u154	You could say that. "A few" also has a broader meaning, namely "a limited number." Then you're in the same cover. Yeah, it's gonna be a word game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u155	I think that's a little less fair. But I know enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u156	Thank you very much, Mr Rutte. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Its own risk is part of paying the high healthcare costs in the Netherlands. These high costs of care arise because we can provide a great deal of care, from neighbourhood care to complex oncological care. We are also proud of this, because we do this very well in the Netherlands. Through our own risk, we ask everyone to contribute. But that these costs, especially in conjunction with their own contribution, can be significantly increased for example for chronically ill people, also sees D66. Together with the other forming parties, we chose not to increase our own risk further in 2018. Of course, the care allowance increases with the premium, so that people with low incomes are compensated for. The cost of care is a great deal of money and that is why this issue is on the formation table. So I will leave it to that. We have, of course, spoken before about avoiding care because of our own risk. It's not the first time we've talked about it. I expect we'll talk about it a lot more when I get the vote right here. We noted in the previous debate that general practitioners often experience a lack of care. I asked for information in April, because one of the problems is that people often do not know exactly when their own risk is to be paid and what exactly is to be done. I will also ask the Minister a question. I would like to hear from her whether there is any progress in the field of information. If your own risk is a problem for people, health insurance companies can offer schemes. It is sometimes said that it is not the right way, but one of these schemes is, for example, the possibility of allowing the insured person to pay his own risk in advance in monthly instalments. If, at the end of the year, the risk has actually been met, the insured person has already paid it. If he doesn't, he'll get the balance back. This will prevent patients from facing additional healthcare costs in the course of the year. This circumvents an important cause of care avoidance, i.e. lack of money in the bank account. I understand that there are insurers who offer that arrangement. Does the Minister have any idea how often that happens and how much use is made of it? Is it prepared to further encourage health insurers to do so? I wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u158	D66, like the VVD, has no reduction of its own risk in the election programme. So I will not ask Mrs Dijkstra about that, because that is not going to happen next year. But I would like to ask her if she knew that the increase would not go through and how she is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u159	I cannot make any statements about how we are involved in the process. These are subjects that are discussed at the main table, because these are issues that have major budgetary implications. I will leave the speech to the main table as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u160	We are always referred to tables as Chambers, and that is so difficult in debates. We have had these motions and then there was always reference to the formation table. And then one day after Prince's Day comes in one go! It's a letter from the formatter in which it's all reversed. October 15th is the new date. We already keep our agendas clear, for all the surcharges, the child-related budget and all the tax measures. Then we can see the same circus again. Can't you say anything about it or don't you want to say anything about it? I think that's a big difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u161	I can't say anything about it. And I don't want to say anything about it, because I agreed that I wouldn't say anything about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u162	Well, that's a final argument. But with a party that has transparency about process and democracy, an open and honest debate and is very much in favour of your views, I find this very disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u163	I would like to comment on this even if Mr Nijboer walks away from the interrupting microphone. I think it is very important that we stand for what we think. We have never made any misunderstandings about that. As Mrs Keijzer has already pointed out, there is talk of care at the main table. It is a process that, of course, everyone also sees that it must be done very accurately and carefully. We will certainly be accountable for this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u164	I hear Mrs Dijkstra saying that she cannot give any information about what she already knew about the agreements or the consultations that have been made about them, because she has agreed to do so. I have a question for Mrs Dijkstra. We want to be clear about this process. There are a lot of people who are very worried about the reports about their own risk. Does Mrs Dijkstra not think that it is also her job to inform the Chamber about this, so how this process has gone and how long have the forming parties discussed this together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u165	Yes, but perhaps it is very good for those who have not sat further at the formation table, to realize that such a process is very delicate and that it must be careful. You don't want to ride through it in any way. It's not up to me to open a book about that now either. That's what the chief negotiators are for. I would say that if the coalition agreement is there, you can ask all these questions about the processes. That will undoubtedly come to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u166	We had Prince's Day yesterday. That is where the budget has been presented. There the people were informed about the plans, but there was no mention of the proposal we received today in our mailbox. Does Mrs Dijkstra not agree with me that it is also the task of the Chamber and the representatives of the people to be consistent and clear about the decisions that are being taken? We must not preach very loud plans one day, with Prince's Day, and change those plans the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u167	This is very interesting, because the forming parties did not present any plans at all on Prinsjesdag. That was the outgoing cabinet. I spoke to Mr Nijboer a moment ago about this. He's partly responsible for that. And now those plans are being attributed to us. I like it, but no plans have been presented on the part of the forming parties. So I wouldn't know what you're suggesting either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u168	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u169	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The forming parties don't sit still, not even around Prince's Day. So it is only logical that the plans of the forming parties at the formation table are clearly announced. Now we don't hear about that for a long time. People are informed about plans. Nor can people follow that this comes from the outgoing cabinet and that from the forming parties. The point is that we provide clarity to all those people who are awake to the level of their own risk and the costs of care that they can no longer afford. Doesn't Mrs Dijkstra see a responsibility of hers here too? When did she discuss this with the other forming parties? Can she shed some light on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u170	I do not know what is clearer than what has happened today, namely that the forming parties do not want to increase their own risk in the coming year. It can't be any brighter! Here's the message. And why does it come out now and do we not wait until the coalition agreement is presented? Because we are still working, but also because we have now agreed on this point. If we don't take care of that now, it's too late. You may say: rather that! Then we'll just go to the $400. If that's your party's wish, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u171	Mrs Ellemeet, you may respond briefly and I will go to Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u172	I think it's good that the leader of my party has asked for a letter. We are certainly pleased that this has led to openness, which everyone needed. So let there be no misunderstanding about that. That does not mean that there is secrecy about how this process came about and that it would be a credit to the Chamber and the representatives of the people if they were to open up about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u173	I can imagine that Mrs Dijkstra is satisfied with this outcome as she represents one of the two parties in this Parliament who did not want to do anything with its own risk. But today's news is not, of course, that one's own risk is not rising; the real news is that one's own risk is not falling, as the majority of voters want, but that it remains the same. Worse still, the care premium is going up. Was that an idea of yours?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u174	That's a nice question, but it's not my idea. And you can imagine that. You know the D66 election program.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u175	Right, I know that. I do not think that you said that the care premium should be increased, but you obviously advised Minister Schippers to do so, I was able to find out from her letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u176	I understand you're trying to find out exactly who said what in which negotiation. I'm not gonna do that. As I said, the forming parties are still in progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u177	I'm not interested in who says what when. In fact, I don't really care that much and neither do the people at home. What they do care about is that next year they will have to pay more care premiums. I didn't read that in your election program either. I didn't hear you say that in election time either, but that's obviously something people should take now. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u178	You can say we shouldn't increase our own risk because it affects people. You always call it a fine on being sick. Well, I'll give you that, but I'm looking at that very differently. People have to pay their own risk and all people in the Netherlands have to pay care premiums. This means that we have a system of solidarity, because people who never use their health insurance also pay for the cost of care. By keeping the risk at the same level, not increasing it, we are placing solidarity even more on the group of people who are all paying a care premium. Indeed, it is less than €1 per month.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u179	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u180	Finally. We have heard that freezing one's own risk costs 150 million. I just quoted from a survey published last month, in which you can read that hundreds of millions can be saved just by organising hospital procurement more effectively. Are you prepared to finance the freezing of one's own risk differently from simply placing the account with the people by simply increasing the premium? That's pretty easy, don't you think?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u181	If we are to achieve this in 2018, we need to do it now. This must be done even by means of an urgent procedure. But I'm open to any real coverage that's taken out of the money that everyone thinks is bouncing over the boards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Ellemeet, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u183	A final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u184	A final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u185	Thank you. Following on from what Mrs Dijkstra said last, I would like to ask whether she thinks it would be desirable for the freezing of own risk to be financed by raising the premium. Does she think that is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u186	A word as desirable... What you don't want, of course, is premium increases or whatever. We simply have a very realistic situation, in which we are dealing with increasing healthcare costs. That will also happen in the years to come. There's no way around that. We simply want the level of our care in the Netherlands to be very good and we want to maintain solidarity in the system. That is why it is so important that we take this measure. I have nothing else to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u187	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u188	In the end, it is a question of where that account is deposited. The question was where D66 would charge for the increase in healthcare costs. Do they deposit it with the contributor, with the citizen, with the health insurance provider or with another entity? Where does D66 put the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u189	First of all, the contributor is exactly the same as the citizen, because everyone has compulsory health insurance. So we're all paying the care out of the bounty. So it is not: either you place it with the citizen, or with the insured person, with the contributor. We'll all just pay for it. Whether we get it out of taxes or out of premiums, eventually we'll all pay it. Care isn't free, and it never is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u190	I do not need a lecture from Mrs Dijkstra on the difference between the contributor and the citizen. I think that's pretty obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u191	You did make that distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u192	The question was next. We are dealing with a profit margin for health insurers of billions of euros. We're dealing with bureaucracy in care. We are dealing with the purchasing power picture for 2018, in which people with 500% of the statutory minimum wage improve 1.1% and people with the minimum wage 0.6%. The question to be asked in this case is D66: if we are also facing an increase in the years to come, can we for 2019 and 2020, too?I hope it's not going to take longer. I don't hear a clue about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u193	And I'm not gonna give you that either, because that's exactly what's on the formation table. I can say that I'm totally with you... sorry, Mr. Chairman, I need to speak through you. I fully agree with Mr Kuzu when he says that we need to look at other ways of increasing the efficiency of care and reducing the bureaucracy that applies. I agree, and we certainly will not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u194	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. People's care is an important issue for the Christian Union. Recently we have had quite a lot of questions about caring for people, about affordability of care, about own risk and about the accumulation of own contributions. The Christian Union also sees that there are groups of people, chronically ill and disabled, for whom this is increasingly a problem. Solidarity and affordability in care are a great asset for the Christian Union. We are very keen to maintain this solidarity. That is why today, as one of the negotiating parties, the Christian Union has asked the Cabinet to prepare, by means of an urgent procedure, a legislative amendment that regulates that the own risk will not increase further in 2018 but remains equal to €385, whatever it is this year. The Christian Union thinks this is a good step. Of course, as we have seen from the Minister's letter, this will lead to a premium increase of one small euro per month. There's no way around that. That is inherent in the system. But we also know that the people with a small scholarship, the people with lower incomes, are fully compensated for this by the care allowance. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's letter also shows that it is possible to complete this urgent procedure before 1 October. So we will be talking again next week about this issue and the legislative amendment. The Christian Union looks forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u196	During the elections, you argued in favour of lowering the own risk by at least €100. You must now defend the story that nothing happens to one's own risk and that the care premium goes up. Are you really happy about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u197	Mrs Marijnissen says that this does not affect the risk of being involved. That's not true. Yesterday we saw in the budget that the own risk will increase to €400. The Christian Union, together with the other forming parties, has ensured that this increase will not continue. So something's definitely happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u198	The expression "cigar from its own box" has already fallen a few times. May I remind Mrs Faber that you are not alone in your plea to address your own risk? You know, once again, supported by 98 colleagues. A vast majority of this Chamber supports you. Are you prepared to take care of that when we come up with good cover?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u199	We are always willing to look at good proposals from the parties, but today we are discussing the proposal of the four forming parties not to increase their own risk further in 2018 and to keep it at €385.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u200	We have been able to read the letter and of course we have read it, but you will only forget to mention that the healthcare premium will then go up. It would be nice if you would tell the complete honest story, namely that your own risk remains the same but that the care premium increases. I don't think that's exactly what you campaigned for. That's not really what's in your election program. I could still understand you, Mrs Dik-Faber, if you were on your own, because everyone knows you have to compromise when you form. I understand that, but you're not alone! You have an overwhelming majority in the Netherlands and in the Chamber behind you. Then why do you, as a loser, leave the formation table without something happening at your own risk?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u201	Again, something is happening with one's own risk. The increase that was presented yesterday is not going to happen. Indeed, I have also indicated in my speech that this will lead to an increase in healthcare contributions. That's inevitable. Care is not free and must be paid through contributions or taxes. Other parties in the Chamber choose the latter, but we choose the route of the premiums because we also know that the people who cannot afford it are fully compensated by the care allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u202	If I can get right on that, Mr. Chairman. That care allowance isn't there for everyone. The fact that everyone who's in trouble now because of the cost of care is fully compensated seems to me to be a rather rosy picture. I would like to ask Mrs Dik-Faber the following question. I've heard her say in the campaign time that it's precisely the goal of lowering the risk of caring for people struggling with it. Now people are getting that extra increase in the premium. So what does it really help people that their own risk at a really high level is frozen if there is also a plus on the premium?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u203	Chronically ill and disabled people quickly take up their own risks. Next year they would pay €400 of their own risk according to the budget of the current cabinet. The proposal put forward today by the four forming parties is not to increase it and freeze it at €385. So this has helped the chronically ill and disabled. Did we miss any other groups? Do we have any more plans? I understand that you are asking that question, but you will have to be patient for that. When there is a coalition agreement, we will discuss the overall package together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u204	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u205	Finally, Mr President. In my view, I also hear Mrs Dik-Faber say that she does not really think it is desirable that the freezing of one's own risk should end up as a plus on the premium. But I'd like to hear if I've summarized that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u206	We have our own risk in the Netherlands. GroenLinks was one of the parties that took responsibility for the Spring Agreement in 2013 and so an increase in its own risk was also considered. That's good, because we're gonna have to pay for the care together. Care isn't free. If we say that our own risk has become too high and that we are going to freeze it at the level of €385, then we will have to think of something to pay for that total care with each other. The route we have chosen for this is the monthly premium. And the people who cannot pay for this increase of almost €1 per month will be fully compensated through the healthcare allowance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u207	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u208	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Taking responsibility also means recognising that measures have undesirable effects. We all know that this level of own risk leads to care avoidance and that an increase in the premium does not solve the problem for many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u209	I always like it when politicians reason on the basis of principles, for example healthy solidarity with ill, and therefore implement measures. Mrs Dik-Faber argues here that she does. But I also think it's okay to describe exactly what happens next. It's said you're really facing chronically ill with this. Mrs Dik-Faber agrees with me that with this proposal they will be €5 better off next year: €15 less own risk, €10 more premium. That's what it is, isn't it, Mrs. Fat-Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u210	I think Mr Nijboer has some nerve to say this here. In recent years, under a cabinet with the Labour Party, the own risk has increased from €350 to €400 yesterday's intentions. The Christian Union, together with the other forming parties, has said that we do not want it to go that far. We will freeze it for 2018 at €385.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u211	Will this freeze remain in place for the next few years? You're taking me by measure now. This minister has reasonably controlled the cost of care in the past period. There's been some rise. At its own risk, nothing else has been done, but there is still an increase in the books of around €100. Will it remain €385 with this decision, or will we be here next year and the following year, and will it then go towards €500, as is now foreseen? Does Mrs Dik-Faber also stop this, or does it remain the €5 per year for chronically ill and disabled people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u212	I understand the question, but I also ask for some patience from Mr Nijboer. At some point there will be a coalition agreement. Then we'll talk about the plans for the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u213	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u214	You're asking for some patience, but you're asking for a lot of patience. It's been a while. But I'll leave this. When did Mrs Dik-Faber know that this proposal from the forming parties was coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u215	We've talked about care as caregivers in the broadest sense. That's what happens when you're a caretaker. There is also a main table. It has reached the stage where there is talk of financial matters. So this period was the time when we talked about the financial choices that had to be made. That is why this proposal was not on the table before.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u216	And "this period" is today? You had to do that today, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u217	I have said that this period is the moment when financial choices must be made. That is why this proposal could not be put on the table earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u218	Mrs. Marijnissen, you've just been here. But you look like that, yes, pathetic. No, it's not that. One question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u219	I'll be brief. Mrs Dik-Faber, do you remember what motion we voted on 21 June?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u220	I have a wide wallet. Mrs. Marijnissen needs to give me a hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u221	I thought you might remember, because it was quite unique. It was a proposal that was copied entirely from your election programme. It is not every day for us to vote on this. It was a proposal from your own election programme, and you voted against it. Your foreman, Mr Segers, said: rest assured, we are going to settle this at the formation table; supporting this motion is not now appropriate. What do you say to all those people you're abandoning now? The people to whom you promised on 21 June: it is not appropriate now, but we arrange it at the formation table?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u222	The four parties are talking about the plans for care in the coming years. Today we have brought out that we are freezing our own risk for next year. The increase to €400 is not going to happen. It's still €385. For the next few years, I would like to refer you to the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u223	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u224	Thank you. The personal risk in care increased from €220 per year in 2012 to €385 per year under Mark Rutte, an increase of 75% in five years time. Today, fortunately, it became known that the own risk will not be further increased, but the care premium will be increased. It's a classic pocket-jacket trick. Edith Schippers is playing ball with the voters. Not to increase your own risk, as it turned out to be too resistant, but to increase the healthcare premium. And now let's hope people can't follow it all. But at the core, it is very simple: care costs continue to rise, while care costs can and must be reduced. We do not think that our own risk should be eliminated, because this would result in costs getting out of hand. But they can be reduced from the current €385 per year to a maximum of €200 per year. That is also what CDA and Christian Union promised during the election campaign. Lowering one's own risk: the umpteenth election promise that is now being broken again. But the premium can also be reduced. International comparative research, for example by Himmelstein and Woolhandler in 2014, showed that in the Netherlands more than 20% of the total cost of care is wasted on pointless bureaucracy and that, also compared to other countries, is very high. As much as 38% of the time of caregivers is devoted to work that has nothing to do with care. That is the real problem that needs to be addressed. But that's not gonna happen. Instead, the forming parties carry out a shady magic trick to cast sand into the eyes of the citizens. What is lacking is the courage to tackle unnecessary management in the care bureaucracy and to appeal to these insurers as well to the billions they hoard so that they can be used for more hands on the bed. The courage is lacking and perhaps the interests between party cartel and health insurance companies are also very close. Arno Rutte himself, the spokesperson on behalf of the VVD, comes from Menzis, Hans Wiegel was chairman of the health insurance companies for many years, followed by André Rouvoet of the Christian Union. Top advisor to Mark Rutte, Jan Driessen, was with AEGON. Ton Elias was also with AEGON, D66-prominent Roger van Boxtel was with Menzis and Sander Spijker, Minister Schippers' husband, was a care consultant, working for, again, the health insurance companies. The party cartel and the health insurance cartel have melted. And that is why the expanding bureaucracy and the waste are not being tackled. That's the real problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u225	Just for the public gallery: I understand that you are very much involved in this debate, but it is really not allowed, no matter how annoying it is, to show your emotions, such as with applause and in other ways. We're almost at the end now, I should have said this at the beginning. Anyway... Mr. Arno Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u226	Mr Baudet claims with a great deal of aplomb that the own risk can be reduced by €185 and that the healthcare premium can therefore be reduced. He comes up with a very woolly story about all administration that only costs money and leads to nothing. Well, I've known a route for a long time called Measurable Better. Every day cardiologists look very closely at the effect of every action on the patient and whether they could do their job better. That Measuring Better is about recording all kinds of things that happen in the cardiological process, so that you can make care a little better every day, and therefore also more affordable. Are these types of registrations that lead to better care an example of the unnecessary administration that Mr Baudet wants to get rid of? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u227	I expected a question to come in this direction, because the argument of those on the side of bureaucracy is, of course, always that we need to measure things, that we need to exercise control and that we cannot let everything go. And that is, of course, true: you cannot abolish all the rules and control mechanisms. Still. We speak a lot of people from the practice of care and see that the bureaucracy, the amount of forms and all mechanisms of institutionalized distrust have increased enormously in a relatively short time. This is also apparent from international studies. For example, you can also see it in the very popular initiative (Ont)Rule the Care that is now being rigged everywhere. There really is a problem with that care bureaucracy. I would be delighted if you would step over your own shadow and recognise that as a starting point, as a priority for government policy for the years to come, rather than this nibbling and this little ball game where the citizen takes the fall for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u228	Perhaps Mr Baudet is still positively surprised when it comes to the ambition of perhaps the next cabinet, but also...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u229	I like to be surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u230	It's possible. But the previous cabinet has also undertaken all kinds of activities to reduce administrative pressure in the care sector. Turns out that's very complicated. Together with, for example, the general practitioners, insurers, the ministry and patient organisations, we had sessions, scraping sessions, to come up with the deletion of rules every time. What does it turn out to be when you do that? Then it turns out that's very difficult. Each attaches to his own registration and his own rules, because that very often is surprising to Mr Baudet in the interest of the quality of care. What's unnecessary, we'll delete it. We'll agree on that right away. However, I would like to hear from Mr Baudet how he can easily remove €185 from his own risk for a short while before the fist of EUR 1.85 billion and how he thinks he can save it through sessions that we have been holding for a long time and which, for the time being, create a very small amount of administrative burden, but which I haven't seen a euro of yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u231	The feeling that I am feeling is similar to that in the debate on compensation for the victims of the earthquakes in Groningen. At the same time, when we advocated setting concrete targets and achieving them, we were constantly shielded by all kinds of committees that were rigged. Could it be, I would ask Mr Rutte, that in the Netherlands the wrong people are on the posts in the government? Those people are apparently unable to achieve the goals that we as a Chamber should set them much clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u232	If Mr Baudet had wanted to ask me a question, he would have just had all the space. That's when he sat down. So I'm out of the game. I asked him a question. He is standing there to answer my question about something that is really complicated and important, namely care and its quality and costs. He makes very easy statements about that: blabla, a report, and then hopsakee €185 of his own risk away, and it's up to the party cartel. I would like to hear from Mr Baudet specific measures: with the feet in the clay say 'we're doing something about it', rather than this kind of easy talk. Because really, despite the applause, it doesn't solve anything at all. Take responsibility!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u233	I take this invitation to take responsibility very much to heart. We are very willing to rule and make this country better at the next moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u234	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister can answer directly. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u235	Mr. Chairman. This afternoon, I received a letter from the informant on behalf of the negotiating parties requesting that the risk be kept equal for 2018 and carried out by means of an urgent procedure. You received a copy of that letter from me. In view of the extremely limited time and the debate that took place two weeks ago, when I looked closely at the voting conditions in this Chamber with regard to its own risk, I reacted directly to that. I am prepared to do so at the request of the House of Representatives. This requires an ultra-poverty procedure, which I have never seen before in my political existence. October 1 is already in 10 days. Mr. Chairman. It does cost money. Oh, no, I'm gonna say something else first. So it really has to be with steam and boiling water, if we're gonna get this. That means there can't be a kink in that procedure. If that is the case, then I am not going to take responsibility for making that change after 1 October. A whole risk settlement is based on 22 billion. It needs to be properly calculated. We have determined when the premiums should be known. That emergency procedure is not without obligation. That is why I gave it to you because it really has to be carried out. It also costs money. That can't really surprise anyone. I'm surprised people are surprised. 'Cause care just needs to be paid. If you don't get it out of one potty, you're gonna have to put it out of the other potty. And if you don't pick it up at your own risk, you have to pay it out of the bounty. Over the past few years, I have debated about 20 times about the risk involved, either as a main theme or indirectly linked to the subject of the debate. And over and over and over again I have said: if you eliminate your own risk, it has to be paid elsewhere. We now have those communicating vessels for the premium. Abolition of own risk costs EUR 3.9 billion compared to the budget presented yesterday. This means an increase in the premium by €293 and an increase in the income-related contribution by €375 million. And yes, you can decide to pay that differently, through the taxes. You're gonna need a whole stretch for that. At least that's not gonna work before 1 October. You can also say: yes, that is indeed an increase of a tenner, but that is compensated elsewhere by taxes. I have no idea, because I am not sitting at the negotiating parties' table. So I can't tell you that at this stage. For that we will have to wait for the plans of a new cabinet, but it is simply naive to think that it could be done without it being paid out. The insurers do indeed have a lot of reserves in the bank, but they must retain them from this Chamber and the Cabinet, which oblige them to hold those reserves in response to the banking crisis. And you can say that you want to make it out of waste and bureaucracy, but systems run by a government generally do not excel by little bureaucracy and little waste. The cost of such systems is generally more expensive than the cost of the system we now have. It is not solid and solid to trust and do that out of the loose wrist. So if you want your own risk to stay equal or be reduced, at least you have to actually pass it on through the current system. That is how we have regulated it now, namely through the communicating vessel, the premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u236	I understand the Minister's concern about the financing of his own risk, but I would like to come back to the question when the Minister knew that the forming parties would not allow the planned increase in their own risk to continue. Yesterday, this cabinet told the Chamber from that place that it would. Was the Chamber properly informed yesterday? Didn't the minister know about that yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u237	No, and I also defended the budget presented yesterday. Those are the plans the Cabinet has devised. I am a member of the Cabinet, so it is plans that have been sent to the Chamber on my behalf. I have now received a letter from the informant stating that the forming parties would like to see their own risk remain the same for next year. I had a debate with this Chamber less than two weeks ago and I have seen the votes on the motions that have been tabled in this Chamber. That is why I indicated in my response that I am willing to commit myself to this, but my own plan was presented yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u238	But the Minister isn't acting on behalf of the informant, is he? Isn't the Minister concerned with the Chamber, which gives orders by majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u239	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u240	And the Chamber, a week and a half ago, was quite against our wishes, Mrs Marijnissen, standing beside me, decided not to give that mandate to the Minister. I didn't agree with that at all. We had a hard debate, and today we had a hard debate. I did not agree with that, but the Chamber has repeatedly said: Minister, you cannot do that. How did the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u241	I really do see that differently, and I don't feel like participating in a political game either. I can count well those who have voted in favour of motions to reduce or maintain the risk of the Chamber minus four. If these four parties say that they agree and ask me if I could, I would say that I could indeed, but by 1 October at the latest. After that, I don't want to take that responsibility. That is in no way different from what I said here in this same Chamber two weeks ago, namely: I do not make proposals, but if your Chamber wants it, it must do so before 1 October. That's exactly the same message.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u242	But does the Minister agree with me that this is at least curious? And maybe that's another understatement, because we knew before the summer that it would have to be by October 1st. That's common knowledge. The Chamber discussed in detail the possibility of getting this into the budget on Princess Day on its own initiative. A day after the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport has said that it will be €400, she has to come back to that, apparently in order to be able to stop the show. "We lower our own risk," they even say, while remaining the same. Isn't it a state-law monstrum to take part in that show?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u243	I'm not on any show. I presented a budget yesterday, and that is the government budget. I have received a request from a majority of the Chamber via an informant and I know that the other members of this Chamber had long taken that position. This means that there is a wide-ranging request, a conviction that it would be better to reduce one's own risk. If you're a Democrat, you'll listen when the Chamber unanimously asks you to do something to see what you can do. Would I do that on my own? No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u244	However, the Chamber asks the cabinet here, in this house, on these chairs, sometimes by roll-call vote. That's the room. Room, that's not an informant sending notes. The Chamber, these are not group leaders who make nice decorations at the NOS Journal or spokesmen who say something on Facebook. This is the room. This is a vote, it is a democracy, and you have not given it a mandate. As far as I'm concerned, that has to happen today. I'd like to file that motion myself. Forming parties do not even want to speak. I'll let them do the same. But then we have to keep it clean. On 15 October we all receive tax measures and surcharges, but it seems that the forming parties are not yet ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u245	It is quite clear, if this Chamber votes against a legislative proposal, against an amendment to the current law to which this request has been made, and where from left to right I can count very well too, as a majority in favour of freezing its own risk. If that majority isn't there, then we're done talking very quickly. If this procedure takes too long, it will be resolved very quickly. If I had wanted to adjust the risk, I would have proposed it to you in the budget. The initiative in this matter is not with me. Yesterday I defended my proposal for every camera and every journalist who asked me: what do you think of their own risk? I got a letter this afternoon. If I add to that the debate that I had here less than two weeks ago and the vote that results from it, I can count very quickly and I know how the majority lies in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u246	I have a question about the increase in premiums, especially since we were initially given a letter from the informant in which no mention was made of it. It was especially the happy message: the risk does not rise, it remains the same. Then came your letter, in which you stated: that is nice and kind, but then the premium rises. Was that an order from the forming parties, or did you come up with it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u247	If I have to respond to a request addressed to me in a copy to the Chamber, I think I should inform the Chamber as fully as possible. If I'm gonna do something like that, I'm gonna have to let you know the consequences. If I didn't, I would really default, because then it would be a big mystery from which this account would eventually have to be paid. No one has a tree in the garden, so that account will have to be paid out somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u248	In my view, we have already exchanged different arguments here and made various proposals on how to pay for them. You can indeed think politically differently about this, but I am now particularly interested in what the forming parties have specifically asked you to do. Was it their idea to say: we're going to make a kind of nice show of it, to use Mr Nijboer's words, and we're going to do some kind of cigar out of our own box; we're going to shout "the risk doesn't go up" and you can then come up with a letter "but unfortunately, the health insurance premium is going up"? How'd that go?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u249	I am very surprised that you are asking me this question. I have had this debate many times. I told you, about 20 times in the last period. It is obvious and I have often said to you: reducing your own risk is raising your premium. So is the current system. If a new cabinet wants to change the system, it can. That's gonna have to introduce a new cabinet to you. I'm a missionary. I cannot put forward proposals for new systems and how they would be financed in a different way. I'll just go through the current system and give you the information on the basis of which you can decide whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u250	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u251	Finally. So even the forming parties were very clear today that their proposal not to increase their own risk would lead directly to an increase in premiums, even though they themselves did not, of course, say that to the outside world and it cannot be read back in Mr Zalm's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u252	I have not been in contact with the forming parties, because I have received a request from the informant and I myself see it as my task to inform you as fully as possible, so that you also know what the reduction is covered from, in accordance with the current system, which I also have to follow as the outgoing minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u253	If I try to explain to my children how our democracy works, I say: you have the parliament, you have the cabinet, and the parliament can order the cabinet and the cabinet can come up with laws. I never explain that there is another informant who can also order a minister. The core of our democracy is the relationship between us representatives of the people and you. I ask you: how does this state of affairs relate to the core of our democracy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u254	If I am asked to make an effort to organise something that this whole Chamber is now in favour of, it would be very undemocratic if I were to say: I am a missionary and I am not listening to a Chamber that unanimously believes that its own risk should be reduced. I don't think that's democratic. What I can say is that I want to make an extreme effort. I didn't give any guarantees either. I just said I want to make an effort. I have indicated to you that I want to make that effort. You can also say that I do not have to make that effort, which saves a lot of work over the next few weeks, but I want to make that effort. You can decide as a Chamber whether you are going to ask me or not, but I want to make that effort, because I know that this whole Chamber now wants to freeze that risk. But: I'm not gonna do it after 1 October, because then I think the risks associated with things going wrong are getting way too big. That doesn't really deviate from what I said to you two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u255	I don't think my kids would understand this. I also wonder if I understand it myself. In my opinion, it is at the heart of the matter that the Chamber gives you an order and that you can get away with it. So do you not agree with me that we still need a ruling from this Chamber in order to get to work on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u256	I've already told you three times that the Chamber can give a ruling. I have also said many times that if the Chamber does not want this to happen, of course it will not. What children can understand very well, by the way, is that there are no money trees. Kids know that very young. They know that if you lower your own risk, but still want to pay that nurse who's just doing her job nicely, you're gonna have to pay for it somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u257	I really want to be clear about this just to be able to understand it. The Minister talks about communicating vessels: freezing one's own risk means increasing the premium. So when the forming parties made the request to the minister, the forming parties should be aware that the premium would increase. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u258	I am not talking about what the forming parties realize or what was known to them. What I wanted to give you is that there are consequences for us to do something like this. I also don't know if it was calculated or known to the forming parties. I have indicated that our estimate is that it will mean a €10 higher premium, but I am not fixing a premium. That's what the health insurance company does. Eventually, the health insurance company could also say: that is €8 for us. We estimate the premium and in our estimate this means €10.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u259	In other words, the Minister says: I do not want to comment on this, but it should be known to the forming parties that this is the way the system works. The Minister also states today: before 1 October we cannot change that, so freezing one's own risk means increasing the premium. But we have just listened to the words of D66 and the Christian Union. We could go looking for other cover. The Minister therefore states: that is excluded, that cannot be done before 1 October; freezing the own risk means increasing the premium?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u260	Yes. At the same time, I said that if the forming parties want to compensate, there are all kinds of ways, either through taxes or through other jars, to do so. I don't see how we could change more than one law in ten days. I can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u261	On a point of order, Mr President. The debate just went back and forth on whether the Minister could submit such a law. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for her kind letter this afternoon, but in order to put an end to all this discussion, I am very prepared to table a motion on behalf of the parties so immediately in which the Chamber asks the Minister to send such an emergency law to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u262	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals asked: what is your response to the letter from the patient federations? That letter refers to the accumulation of healthcare costs related to the own payments in the Health Insurance Act, the Long-Term Care Act and the Wmo. It is also about costs of uninsured care, such as physical therapy and oral care. These are really subjects that need to be discussed in the formation and which I will not make any proposals for now. Mrs Dijkstra asked what progress has been made in providing information on the own risk. As you know, in recent years we have been actively seeking groups in supermarkets and in squares with a team to inform them about what is at risk and what is not. We've had social media campaigns. We also have autumn briefings every year. This year too, we will take that whole repertoire out of the closet again, because there is constant attention to this. We have also had two working conferences with municipalities. There we talked about people who use services more widely: the care allowance, municipal collectiveism and municipal regulations. I've informed you about that, too. Finally, how much is used in payment arrangements? I think it is important to mention here that all insurers have such a payment arrangement, no insurer except for it. So you can either spread or pay in advance. Around 800,000 insured persons make use of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u264	Thank you. I think there is a need for a second deadline. Is there a need for a short suspension or will we proceed immediately? I hear one minute. That's what I thought. Then I'll suspend the meeting for one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u265	We shall continue with the debate. We have now reached the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP. Speaking time is one minute, including tabling motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u266	I know. I'm gonna do the best I can, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions I would like to read out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that its own risk creates an undesirable financial threshold for access to care;]] [[noting that the Minister indicated that his own risk would not increase in the coming year, but would not decrease either;]] [[calls on the government to reduce its own risk by €100 for 2018 according to a large majority of the electoral programmes of the current House of Representatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Nijboer, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Arissen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Baudet, Mr Gerbrands and Mr Sazias.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-862]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u267	The next motion goes as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister has announced that because of its own risk not rising next year "each adult insured person will have to pay around €10 more in premium";]] [[Considering that there is still a great deal to be saved in our healthcare system with billions of reserves in healthcare insurers, a lot of bureaucracy, commerce and waste;]] [[calls on the government not to threaten an increase in the premium but to address the reserves of health insurers, bureaucracy, commerce and waste in our healthcare system to finance a freeze or a reduction in its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-863]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u268	Thank you, Mr President. What should have been a celebration today of the forming parties, VVD, CDA, D66 and the Christian Union, about the good news that one's own risk would not increase any further, is basically ruined by reality in a very short time. The reality is, as the Minister also points out, that the forming parties should have known that a freeze of their own risk would mean that the premiums would increase in 2018. Mr. Chairman. As far as DENK is concerned, we simply eliminate our own risk or reduce it without increasing premiums; that is the second choice. That is why we have co-signed Mrs Marijnissen's motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u269	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that an announced change in the law on the own risk shows that the care premium will increase;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable that the cost of caring for citizens should be increased by a further rising care premium;]] [[points out that it is desirable that the equalisation of the own risk in 2018 should not be financed by increasing the care premium,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Sazias and Mr Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-864]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u271	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. While 800,000 Dutch people have a payment scheme for their own risk, while they pay their premiums neatly, and also a quarter of the people do not care when their doctor thinks it is necessary, today we have to come to the sad conclusion that we already know that nothing is being done for these people in the government agreement. They should be happy that next year isn't going to get any worse. And that while compared to the past few years and to all the alternative coverages that everyone may disagree with, the income position of our country has changed dramatically. The money does fuck with the skirts. That's tonight's sad conclusion. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Gerbrands and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-865]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u273	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I call Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u274	Mr. Chairman. Despite the many questions to the parties, it has not become clear to me how all this has gone. One day after Prince's Day, the rabbit came out of the top hat. The good news for the people is very disappointing because it turns out to be net but €5 now that the increase in own risk does not happen: €15 min €10 premium. That's not clear to me at all. What is clear is that the Chamber is giving the order. Mrs Keijzer has just taken that up by tabling a motion to do so as a Chamber. That's important. We are voting by roll call; none of that is bullshit. If the Chamber does not do so, then we will end up in state-law waters that we should not end up in. That is what this debate shows. It is a mistake that a week ago the formation parties voted jointly and severally against a motion that they are going to table today. I don't think a lot of people understand that. But the main issue is even more important: 98 elected Members of Parliament have promised the electorate to significantly reduce their own risks. It seems that in the coming years, in 2019, 2020 and 2021, they will have to do so with a constant or perhaps even higher own risk. That's sad. I really hope that the Christian Union and the CDA will get more out of this formation than this cloth before the bleeding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u275	Thank you. Mrs. Sazias waives her second term. Then I'll go to Mrs Keijzer on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u276	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This afternoon at 6 p.m. we received a favourable response from the Minister to the request made by the informant on behalf of the four forming parties to come to the Chamber with an emergency law. I realize that the Minister is outgoing and that a ruling by the Chamber is needed to actually send such an emergency law here. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is desirable that the mandatory own risk under the Health Insurance Act should not be increased in 2018 compared to 2017;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to initiate an urgent procedure to implement the necessary legislation by 1 October,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Keijzer, Mr Arno Rutte, Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29688-866]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 862, of Mr Marijnissen and others, asks for the own risk to be reduced by €100. The motion in part No. 863, Mr Marijnissen, asks that this should not be done with an increase in the premium. It has to be paid. I find it all too easy to say: you have to get that out of commerce, for example, because there is money put into advertisements. Then we're talking about $2.50. Then we're far from there. And if you take out the competition, you're gonna have to have another system of distribution. Systems controlled by the government do not excel in efficiency, in little bureaucracy and in little waste. So you've got to have a good cover. The motion in part No. 862 I advise, unless it is financed from the premium. The motion in part No. 863 I advise because it is really communicating vessels in the current system. The motion of member Ellemeet c.s. in piece No. 864 says that it is desirable that the equalisation of one's own risk should not be financed by the increase in the care premium. It is really an illusion to think that no one would have to pay; the contributor is also the taxpayer. So if you had to pay it out of taxes, you'd hit that same citizen. In the current system it goes through the care premium. Doing it through the current system is also a condition for actually regulating it before 1 October and getting it into the Official Journal. The motion of member Agema c.s. in piece No. 865 calls on the government to eliminate its own risk altogether. I would advise that there is no cover or support unless we would finance it entirely from the premium, but that would mean a very strong premium increase, as I have just charged the Chamber. Finally, I come to the motion for a resolution, Mr Keijzer c.s. in piece No. 866, which asks me not to increase its own risk and to initiate the procedure for implementing the necessary legislation by 1 October. I will leave this motion to the House, provided that it can actually do so by 1 October because of Parliament. That is why I would like to appeal to the Chamber as follows. The vote on the motions will have to take place quickly if we are to actually implement the procedure. If that takes a very long time, ten days with a weekend in it will not be enough at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u278	Mr President, an omission on my part. I had intended to ask myself to vote on my motion tomorrow, at least on my motion, when I tabled the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u279	I'm going to make a proposal, Mrs Keijzer. Thank you. Are you ready, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u280	Mr President, I am not the author of the motions, but it seems to me that we should vote on all the motions tomorrow, or at least three or four out of five. Otherwise, we can't do it that fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u281	I was just about to make a proposal. I thought you were ready, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u282	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-20-tweedekamer-10.u283	I would normally propose that we vote on the motions next Tuesday, but in view of the content of the motions and the debate we have had today, I would actually propose that we vote tomorrow on all today's motions. This brings us to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the Minister, the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the people who have followed this debate via the Internet or television and the staff.
