ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	I have received written answers from the Minister of Justice and Security to questions raised in the first term. These answers will be included in an annex to the Acts of this sitting. (The attachment is recorded at the end of this edition.)
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Today we will continue with the discussion of the budget for Justice and Security. Today we are discussing the first term of office. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Justice and Security, the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I actually wanted to give the floor to the Minister, but I see that Mr Van Dam has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr President, you have just called on us to streamline the debate. I do not want to overdo that, but yesterday I asked for a plan on how to distribute EUR 100 million to the police. I also asked for an insight into how that strength is distributed among the units. The information we have received does not include that information, but what does it say this morning on the front of the Dagblad van het Noord and van de Leeuwarder Courant? That the police in the north of the Netherlands have to turn in agents. Then I think to myself: then there is no other way than that there is obviously a plan available. I think we should have that information here at the beginning of this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	So you really want to have the report on which it is written.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	Either I want to hear from the Minister that there is no plan or I want the plan here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	I give the floor to the Minister to respond briefly before he starts his contribution or contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you for at least allowing me to speak here; let me at least say that immediately. On the question of the division of power, we agreed in the government agreement that the operational strength should be updated. Madam President, I will be working hard with the Chief of Police and Authorities in coming months to prepare for the update of strength and with plans to further strengthen capacity and the flexibility agenda. I think it is important that I also ensure that there will be a proportionate and balanced distribution of police capacity across all units. I do not want to anticipate this specifically for one or more units at the moment. That's one. Two: you have already heard me say that in the coming period I will soon be working with the Chief Constable on planning. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr Van Dam, before I give you the floor, because it was a very long question, I would point out that it is a matter of whether or not there is a plan. So it's not about what's in that plan. It is purely about information to the Chamber, at the request of Mr Van Dam. That is what you really want, without any substantive justification and substance in the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	Let me make it quite briefly: I take the Minister's reaction in such a way that no final decisions have yet been taken by him on the distribution of strength, of that extra strength, of the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	So that's content. Then you really need to hold this for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	No, I take the reaction in such a way that we will get further information on this in December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	Yes, but that was not a point of order, because this is simply a matter of substance. That's what's going on right now, and I don't think that's pure. That's what I'm saying. Good morning, by the way. We're getting off to a good start.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes, it's a special acquaintance. December is a holiday month, but I don't know if I'm ready. Mr Van Dam says: so we are going to get something in December. Again, we're talking right now. I admit that, as soon as there is such a design that it is useful to bring plans to the Chamber, then it will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	Okay, then I suggest you continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	If you'll allow me, I have...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	No, is this a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	Well, I'd like to ask a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	No, is this a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	No, it's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Chamber for its first-term contributions. I am going to answer all the questions in a moment, but allow me first to say something about the most important task that we and, above all, I stand for in the Ministry: a free, safe and just society, and make it even stronger. I have one firm conviction, and that is that justice and security cannot be without each other. Together they make society a rule of law. What do rights mean if people do not have the freedom to exercise them, if they are not protected from violence, arbitrariness or from people who want evil or authorities that violate their rights? The close connection between justice and security is also reflected in the four main priorities that I see, at least for myself, for the coming period: undermining, cybersecurity, terrorism and, also very importantly, the national police. Let me get straight to the point. There will be a fund against undermining crime, because the fight against undermining crime is urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Markuszower, the Minister has just spoken a few sentences. Do you mind if he finishes this? Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	It's about the introduction. The Minister says that security and justice belong together and that he wants to work for a secure society. But I'm actually seeing a minister of inability and unwillingness right now. The minister doesn't want to introduce administrative detention. He doesn't want to comment on the low penalty climate in the Netherlands, because he thinks that this is all up to the judge. So I see a minister with many fine words, but it is a minister of inability and unwillingness, who does not want to make the Netherlands safer and does not want to introduce high penalties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	I actually want the Minister to answer this right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	The minister's just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	Why does the Minister not want to introduce administrative detention? And why doesn't the Minister want to introduce minimum sentences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Markuszower!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	The Netherlands needs that very much. That's real security. That's real justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Markuszower, the minister has just begun. Yesterday, you had plenty of room to say what you think. I think it is nice now if the Minister starts with a brief introduction and addresses the issues that you discussed yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	Will I, through you, promise Mr Markuszower that I will deal with his points later? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	I'd be fine with that. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	I would have stayed at the undermining. That's like twilight: in the beginning you don't see that it's getting dark very slowly around you. Slowly criminals infiltrate ordinary society with dangerous synthetic drugs, with human trafficking and trafficking in human beings, with fraud, money laundering and arms trafficking. Criminals also force ordinary people to commit criminal activities. Those ordinary people have to tolerate them in their residential areas, and sometimes they even become accomplices to them. And no, that doesn't just happen in Brabant. This also happens in other parts of our country, so you can read almost daily in the newspaper. This affects the framework of our rule of law. If we want to talk about it and can talk about it, I stand by the fact that we are going to be very focused and hard on it. That is why there will be special anti-undermining legislation alongside the fund. In January, together with Mr Dekker for Legal Protection, I will come up with an action agenda which sets out clearly what the legislation will look like and how we can deploy the fund together with all the partners as soon as possible. Madam President. If there is a place where boundaries between safe and unsafe and between justice and injustice can be quickly crossed, not only in the context of undermining but also in much wider areas, then that is in the digital world. We see an urgent threat, as recently demonstrated by the 2017 Cybersecurity image. That affects the security of our country. But we must not forget that it also affects the stability of our country and our economy. This requires cooperation: within the government and between departments, but also beyond, with entrepreneurs, research institutions and foreign partners. I am therefore pleased that the coalition agreement provides for a substantial strengthening of digital security in the form of EUR 95 million for cyber security. In recent years, the threat posed by terrorism has continued to be high. Our services work tirelessly to prevent people from becoming victims of attacks, which we unfortunately saw so often in our neighbouring countries. Combating radicalisation and identifying and tackling people with terrorist plans demands our continued attention. That is why the cabinet also pays an additional 13 million in this budget for measures against terrorism. And then there's the police. I must tell you that in my first month I learned a great deal from my work visits. At first, I was at headquarters, where I had conversations with the police department. But I also learned a lot during my visit to the Task Force Brabant Zeeland in Breda. There we see how the democratic rule of law is put into practice. The police haven't had it easy in recent years. That has already been mentioned by a few Members yesterday. They had to keep the store open while at the same time there was a major renovation. They also had to operate constantly under the magnifying glass of publicity. And then they were confronted with tasks that in recent years have only become more severe, for example by the increased threat of terrorism or the arrival of very large numbers of asylum seekers in 2015. Those policemen deserve a good, effective organization. For me, completing the national police project is therefore an important personal priority. I am pleased that in the coming year we will be able to use an additional 100 million for more agents in the district, for detectives, for improving ICT and for the renewal of equipment. Madam President, these are my priorities. I look forward to taking care of that day and, if necessary, a very large part of the night. You may know that much of my work consists of the security portfolio, but as a child I may have fallen into the cauldron of the rule of law. I believe that as a Chamber you can always appeal to me to maintain the balance between justice and security. In that spirit, as a chamber, I will meet you in the coming years. But I say that we should do this together, with you, with the fellow executives, with all the people who work for JenV and with all our partners at home and abroad. We must work together for this free, safe and just society. I have a number of issues to answer in a moment's time from your Chamber. I'll start with the national police. I will talk about the development of the national police, the distribution of strength, the 100 million, the diversity and the provision of services. I will then talk about undermining, experimental weed cultivation and traffic enforcement. In the latter case, I would like to talk about the system of fines and how to append while driving. Then there will be cybersecurity and cybercrime, including bitcoins, and finally the fight against terrorism. So I'll start with the national police. I've already said something about the distribution of strength. I do not know whether it makes sense to repeat this here now, I say to Mr Van Dam. So I wanted to skip that point to an important extent. A further question has been asked by Mr van Oosten about the link between the extra resources for the police and the condition that the flexibilisation agenda be continued. I think it would be a good idea to make that point explicit here. There is a guarantee that the next tranche of 267 million for this year can only be used if agreement has also been reached with, among other things, the Minister of Finance, the police, the mayors, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the trade unions on the implementation of the flexibilisation agenda. I'll get right on it in the new year. I have already discussed this with the various parties, such as the trade unions, the mayors and the corps leadership. We aim to reach agreements in the spring of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	Were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	With the point of flexibilisation? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	A small point of order. We have just been distributed an agenda. I hear the Minister now saying that he is ready on this point. I absolutely only want to interrupt what is at stake, but then I would like to know where we are now in the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	Where you are on the agenda, I can explain briefly. I have with the police, the mayors and the unions... oh, you mean a different agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr Van Dam refers to the construction of the Minister's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	This is still covered by the 100 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	Would you like to ask a question about that, Mr. Van Dam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'll wait. I would like to ask a question about that point, but I think it would be more sensible for the Minister to tell the whole story first. I thought he was moving on to point two, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	No, that's my fault.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	I'll keep an eye on it, too, Mr. Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u44	Let's add a little more. I thought it wise to put down the issue of this flexibility agenda first, because otherwise there will be confusion about the following points I am discussing on this point, about the 100 million. The funds allocated from the coalition agreement are, as you know, intended, inter alia, to strengthen police capacity for the district and for the police. A total of 100 million has already been planned for 2018. The capacity of the Police College will be increased by 10% in 2018. That's for the extra intake of aspirants and specialists. In the years to come, an outflow of mainly older police officers is expected to be around 2,000 per year. There's a higher influx of aspirants against that. So the influx of new staff is going to rise sharply. The advantage of this is that organisations are rejuvenating and that the new influx can also give an additional boost to diversity. This can also respond to the demand for more senior and otherwise qualified police officers. But it also means that some basic teams are temporarily faced with a higher occupation of aspirants who are still in training. That is why we want to speed up investment in this area. I'm going back to the first point I announced, the national police and its formation. It is not only the biggest reorganisation of the existence of the police, but it is the largest in Dutch history, at least as far as the government is concerned. It is a huge job, which the police had to do against the background of all kinds of extra tasks that came on its plate, because of the increased threat of terrorism, the arrival of large numbers of asylum seekers and policy intensifications in which the police also had a significant share. Gradually the reorganisation has shown that the police need extra time and resources to come to a proper conclusion. With the extra resources allocated by the Cabinet in 2017 for security and the new strong impetus from the government agreement, I think that we really need to be able to complete that operation properly, so that in 2018 that flexible, robust and effective police organisation really stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u45	I saw the minister nodding, so I suppose this is the natural time to ask my question. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for saying that he will come forward with further information on the Spring paper. In the short term, however, this is a substantive comment on my point of order. Is there a list somewhere that says where the 480 policemen are going? That's what I think. I would therefore like a statement from the Minister on the distribution of strengths across the country. I have here in my hand the driving times of the police in the countryside on prio 1 reports. We've talked about that a lot in the Chamber. Does the Minister share my view that this strength should be evenly distributed across the country? Because especially the regions, where police density is much less, must get what they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u46	The coalition agreement agreed that the allocation of operational strength should be updated. This means that there must be a proportionate and balanced distribution of police capacity across all units. I think I'm using almost the same words you just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u47	To make that very clear: may I take it so that this means that the message that is on the front of the Northern Daily is premature this morning?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u48	Well, I guess this message wasn't put in by me at least.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u49	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u50	No, one question and a follow-up question. Otherwise, it'll count as second interruption. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u51	If I may refer to the Minister's answer: that does not help to bring peace to the tent. This increases the unrest. Maybe it's worth considering choosing a slightly different approach. I actually had a question about the ratio between cop and population. I slipped yesterday and called the number 500. In the written reply it is correctly stated that there is an agreement that there is a district agent on 5,000 inhabitants. The answer was that this has to be solved within the regional units themselves, but there is a problem there. Is the Minister prepared to state explicitly that the legal standard is 1 district agent out of 5,000 inhabitants, and that corps are therefore not free to make it 1 in 8,000 or whatever?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u52	I certainly want to radiate those 1 in 5 000, but it is also up to local authority to decide at some point in consultation how this will work out in practice in concrete situations. I am also talking about this in the LOVP, as you know. Again, my message there is very clear. I'm radiating what you just mentioned: 1 in 5,000. You said something about the unrest that has arisen about such reports. I can only share that with you. I'm very sorry to hear that this unrest has arisen. I've just indicated that this kind of coverage doesn't come from me. I, of course, have no control over that either. In any case, the moment we talk about plans is far too early to suggest, as the daily reports do, that there are already failures. That has been said a little longer, as your colleague Mr Van Dam said about prematureness.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u53	Anyway, thank you. This makes it clear that it can be a subject of conversation but that it is not a fact. That's very good. Let's get back to that 1 in 5,000. If we are not clear and clear about that, then we are going to say that it should be on average 1 in 5,000. I would urge our group to insist that 1 in 5 000 should be the lower limit. If we're gonna work with averages, I know exactly what's gonna happen. Then you get an imbalance in the division between municipalities. That's exactly what we were trying to prevent. So is it true it's meant to be a lower limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u54	Well, no, I don't think that's true. I think you and I both know that because otherwise you won't say it should be 1 in 5.000. Then there would have been: at least 1 in 5,000. That's one. A second is the following. I would like to stress that your colleague, Mr Van der Staaij, said yesterday in the debate that we should continue to pay attention to the fact that the rural areas, or at least areas that are perhaps less in the forefront of the debate when we talk about the distribution, do not lose sight of them. To that look you just asked of me, you may address me. I have been very clear up to now, but I have also said out loud: the 1 in 5 000 must also be well distributed with balance and proportionality.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u56	A number of Members of Parliament, including Mr Van Dam, have asked for the services of the police. I think we have to put first that good contact with citizens is an essential point for the police. For a good information position, it is important that citizens report not only to the police but also to the police. I am therefore primarily concerned with reporting with a per-crime approach. It is also known from research that one cannot speak statistically of one type of declaration willingness and that it is also very difficult to refer to it. What matters is that the accessibility, proximity and visibility of the police are being shaped in a modern way. In addition to office declaration and internet declaration, new chromebooks declaration can now be recorded on location. There are local support points in, for example, libraries and town halls. There's even a police camper coming to festivals. Customisation is necessary, in which I also have a real eye for ensuring quality and care regarding the position of the victim. These were actually my points about the national police. Then I'd like to switch to the point of undermining. Many speakers have asked me...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u57	Before you go any further, Mr Van Oosten has another question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u58	Yes, Mr President, because what I completely missed in the answer from the Minister of Justice and Security and what I found somewhat disappointing in the written reply is the way he deals with absenteeism within the police. In the response of the cabinet, it says about absenteeism: "As a result, it is not real to expect that the absence of the police will decrease significantly in the short term." I think this is something that I say a little harshly, absolutely unambitious. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u59	Yes, the complicated thing is, of course, that the written response was a little longer. I have the impression that the Member of Parliament, Mr Van Oosten, makes a rather secluded point of view, which gives a very unambitious impression, even though that ambition is there. Reducing absenteeism is a very important task. There are huge differences between units. In a single unit we see a decrease in the default rate but the necessary national trend break has not yet been realised. The police has already gained additional expertise and capacity in 2017 to provide maximum support to the managers in that failure approach. A national reintegration policy has been established in conjunction with the police unions and the police will carry out a corps audit following the 2014 TNO report on long-term absenteeism, which could also provide additional insights that could contribute to addressing the absenteeism. The absence of the police is largely long-term. This also includes more complex absenteeism cases. As a result, it is not realistic to expect a significant reduction in police failure in the short term. In order to reduce targeted absenteeism, an analysis shall be carried out periodically, in particular in the case of high-miss teams. It is crucial that the corps be even more strongly steered and that managers and employees be called upon at all levels on their share in it. That is also the case in all the management talks of the corps leadership with the unit chiefs at the moment. This subject is discussed in detail. Self-screeners have also been developed within the Corps to enable employees themselves to see whether they are at risk in mental or psychosocial terms by means of a questionnaire. And there's a pilot running to offer to employees of a preventive medical examination. I will further inform the House of Representatives about the current default policy and possible further measures through the upcoming progress report national police. It is certainly not so yet that I have said at about a third of that trend break, but I hope that I can assure you that together, the corps leadership and I, we have the ambition to really do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u60	I cannot escape the impression that what the Minister now represents is in fact no different from what has already been done and what axis we speak is being done. What I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice and Security is that he makes this a priority for himself, that he formulates an objective for himself. What I want to hear is that he says that the 7% absenteeism, which is 2% higher than the average absenteeism in the public administration, should at least be reduced to 5%, and I will be chasing the police officials every time with the question of what they are actually going to propose. Minister, how are you going, also because of the agents themselves who work in the corps, to ensure that it gets there and how are you going to inform the Chamber periodically and permanently on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u61	I am afraid I have just said a number of things about this. I would also like to emphasise what Mr Van Oosten says, that I really see it as an important effort to ensure that absenteeism, and especially the PTSD absenteeism, really goes down and to do whatever it takes to make it happen. I mentioned the measures, and you can certainly ask me about them in the context of that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u62	I have a supplementary question on the cultural aspects and the way in which we deal with each other. I asked a question about that yesterday. It has been answered but not to a sufficient extent, so please ask a supplementary question. It is indicated that this is done with the so-called employee monitor on the cultural aspects. My question to the Minister is this. Did the poignant stories of those 26 employees in that black book come out of that employee monitor? Did you get that picture yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u63	Let me say the following. That black book was taken seriously by the police department immediately. That's what you've noticed from the Chief Constable's response. I fully support him in that. I really think it is a very good thing that there is a huge openness within the police in terms of diversity, but also in terms of culture and how you deal with each other, also to simply raise the issue as chief of police and square public that this needs to be done. For the rest, I have already indicated that this is done via multiple tracks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u64	Mr President, we were just standing with you and we agreed that there would be no interruption unless there was an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u65	No, we didn't agree to that. I'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u66	That's what I agreed with my colleagues at the PVV. I had a very simple question and the Minister gives an excellent answer, which seems fluent, but it is not an answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u67	You don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u68	No, I didn't get an answer. My question was very simple. 26 people with different origins have presented a black book. I ask the question about how we're going to monitor that, how we're going to make it so that everyone feels welcome and can be themselves in that corps. The Minister's written answer is: we will send, among other things, through the employee monitor. That seems to me to be a good instrument. My question is very simple, and I repeat it again, or that employee monitor has previously shown that these kinds of stories live within the corps.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u69	These kinds of stories live within the force. I think that the black book has at least made it sufficiently clear that there are still forms of discrimination in the police. Even if that is perhaps to a very small extent, you still have to send it to every organisation and also to the police. And the police keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u70	Second interruption, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u71	Does it not mean, I ask the Minister, that we talk to each other, that we enter into dialogue and that the leadership sets a good example? Shouldn't it eventually grow from below? Wouldn't more instruments be necessary to combat discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u72	Well necessary... there are certainly more instruments to come up with. You should also ask yourself what works in a specific organization you're talking about. In this case, that's an organization with 65,000 people spread all over the country. I have every confidence that under the leadership of the Chief Constable, this has been taken really well in recent times and that this will continue to happen. Once again, you must see it in such a way that when a chief of police says out loud "this cannot happen in our corps," even that already a way, is a very clear example function that helps in the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u73	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u74	Yes, I want to move on to the point of undermining, where I have to admit that I actually feel that my task is not so much undermining as anti-undermining. Over the last few days, many speakers have asked me questions about tackling organised undermining crime. I would like to say something about that. Over the next few years, we will be tackling organised crime even harder than we have done so far. And that is really necessary, because the problems I mentioned to you in the introduction are playing throughout the country and there are more and more risks of interconnectedness from below and above the world and of invading the lives of ordinary people in ordinary residential areas or in ordinary villages or in ordinary rural areas. What are we gonna do? The Future Agenda Undermining, which you received last summer from my predecessor, is the guiding principle. Highlights from this: increasing the impact of the integrated approach. We are doing this, among other things, by making additional resources available for the fight. It is not for nothing that I visited the Brabant Zeeland Task Force very extensively last week. And I know that the standing committee is going there, even tomorrow, I think. Further: removing soil, tackling opportunity structures, disrupting criminal business processes and combating urbanisation. That is also my answer to Mrs Buitenweg's question, which asked for a broad, integrated vision of security on undermining. This is in the form of the Future Agenda, which we will work on together, as I said in the introduction, Sander Dekker and I will be presenting to you as soon as possible in 2018. Then there's the undermining legislation. Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten have asked what it is going to look like and whether I want to involve the mayors. First of all, we are going to look for bottlenecks in legislation and, when adaptation is needed, adapt them. We are also going to accelerate or streamline a number of running routes. Those two matters are actually referred to in the coalition agreement by undermining legislation. In this undermining legislation, I am going to take up all the legal problems, practical problems and other wishes identified by local government, but also by other partners. I therefore see the aforementioned anti-undermining act or undermining act as a collective name for several legislative proposals that share the common objective of strengthening the approach to undermining crime. Some of them can be arranged in the short term. For others, it takes a little longer. That's why it's good to put it well together under this one heading. Then we can solve everything at its own pace as quickly as possible and a complicated regulatory issue does not have to slow down the pace of other subjects. Once again, at the beginning of 2018, I will come forward with an updated agenda undermining, in which I will deal with these issues in greater detail. This includes, for example, the issue of the outlaw gangs, but the Minister for Legal Protection will deal with this later. In the same context, practices such as the so-called traffic light are currently being considered by the parties concerned for legal feasibility and effectiveness. Mr Van Oosten asked a question about this. On the undermining fund, Mrs Helder, Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mr Van Oosten asked what exactly is the status and how it will be used. At present, 100 million have been allocated to this fund. I'm talking to all the parties about the exact design. This concerns the state attorney, the police, the municipalities, the tax authorities and the ministries of State and Finance. The essence of this is that the resources are deployed on the basis of good plans that reflect what is needed in implementation. I myself have the coordinating, leading role in that. The Chamber may therefore appeal to me on the final responsibility for this project.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u75	Was this it about the point of undermining?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u76	Yeah, I just wanted to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u77	I would suggest that you finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u78	No, it's not. It's finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u79	Okay. Mrs Van Toorenburg has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u80	I hear it's finished and it sounds really good. First of all, let me say that. I think it is wise for the Minister to state: I am doing what I can now, so I am not looking at one law in which everything is waiting for everything. I would like to highlight one aspect, and that is the exchange of privacy. Can it be speeded up? There is a bottleneck in particular and we know that the Ministry has been breeding on this for almost three years. It can't take much longer. Would the Minister like to comment on the withdrawal of the flagships? We want to know whether this creativity can be demonstrated. Take a boat and give it back. Take out a building and give it back. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u81	You have noticed that I have not gone into the details of the legislation, of the things that need to be done. I have not yet spoken to you at all about broadening the possibilities of exchanging information between services. When it comes to the use of deprivation, we have seen last weekend what beautiful things you can do by giving a boat back to society. We certainly want to be creative in that with each other. We'll come up with a proposal. See the future agenda, in which we are not just going to name money for things, but also to ensure good national governance, which takes responsibility for how it really works, how it gets the flywheel.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yesterday, I drew attention to the position of the outside world. Especially in the South of the Netherlands we see a lot being dumped, that there are all kinds of things going on. We've had some written answers. The minister just said he's gonna sit down with all the partners. I would ask him to explicitly include the outside area in the talks. We often see now that it's a baby that's being held back. I know from my own experience that those forest rangers and supervisors in nature areas are often literally alone. I would like an explicit commitment on this point. My second question concerns the disposal of waste. The Minister rightly writes: there is a fund for this and that is not really exhausted on this point. But it's really about synthetic drug waste. We also see a lot of other waste being dumped. It must be cleaned up at its own expense. Isn't it an idea to see if the fund can be used more widely?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u83	I can say a few things about that. First of all, I would like to say out loud that we are also looking at the outside area. I did not say for nothing: also in the ordinary rural area. I think that says enough about it. We also take the dumping of chemical waste from synthetic drugs extremely seriously. It could be an approach that could also cover, for example, the problem of manure fraud and the waste involved. I am already talking about this with my fellow Minister Schouten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u84	Just a little more specific. I read in the reply that the fund used to pay the cost of disposing of the waste of synthetic drugs is not exhausted. That's good news in itself. It means there's room there. Would it not be wise to pay for the disposal of other waste which is not subject to compensation from that fund as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u85	I would like to come back to that later. Then I should have a moment to see, perhaps I am a little too legally deformed as to how that fund is formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u86	Maybe it's good to come back in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u87	I'd love to. Then I come to the point of the experiments around the growing of weed. I can be quite brief about that right now. The Minister for Medical Care and I are currently preparing laws and regulations to make that possible. Tomorrow, when the Permanent Chambers Committee goes to Eindhoven, we will be back together to talk to our officials about this. The aim is to see if and how we can decriminalize the supply of pot. In any case, I would like to say that we have to be talking about weed which has been very clearly checked for quality. It is a limited experiment with growing pot for recreational use. There's no legalization. I have already mentioned a few points on which we have to make very good and clear all the legislative decisions. An AO is scheduled for 20 December on this subject. There's gonna be a letter from me for the 20th. I have already agreed with, among other things, the LOVP, so we should be able to go a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u88	It's a good thing we're finally having experiments. Last week, the municipalities called the bell: if they are different experiments, then we can learn from them, then we know what is in the interest of public health and then we know what works best for the fight against crime. I now read in the answers that the conditions for setting up the experiments have not yet been defined. So that means that we could agree here today that at least it will be different experiments. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u89	If we say to each other, at least when I say to you that the conditions have not yet been laid down, then we should not then start laying down these conditions with each other. Of course, this would be a condition, but I'm not for that. I'd like to have a good talk with the health secretary first. Let us be very clear: the primary area of expertise here is not the legal one, although a lawyer will not like to admit it, but also the medical one. We really need to make sure that that is taken very carefully. From the frameworks that come from there, I will work with him to see how we can best make this legal. Whether that becomes one experiment or several, I don't want to say anything about it yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u90	The Minister may consult with the Minister for Medical Care. I'm fine with that. But the Chamber's been talking about this for years. If I propose here today, I have done so with colleagues, and I believe that there should be different experiments, then we could make a statement to the House on this. That makes it easier for the minister to write his letter before December. We'll see that in second term. My question to the Minister is: what is the worst thing that could happen if we organised different experiments to learn from them? I think the worst thing that can happen is that one or two or three of these experiments turn out to be a very great success. Then is actually the worst thing that has been confirmed wrongly from among others the CDA all these years. Is that so bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u91	Of course, it always has something regrettable when the wrong of any political party is confirmed. Let me put that in front of you. But that's not what this is all about. As far as I am concerned, this is not about politically equal or unequal. The point is that we are going to do an experiment that, I think, will have enough problems within your Chamber as well. We are going to do it anyway and which is being looked at with great eyes abroad. I believe that it is my responsibility to give legal form to the sharp frameworks that have emerged from the consultation with the Minister for Medical Care in an experiment that is of benefit to us as a society. You may call me on that, later on 20 December or later. Whether that's different experiments or two or one, I'm not gonna talk about that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u92	But then I can conclude that they don't have to be uniform?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u93	As far as I'm concerned, you can't conclude anything right now. I have an appointment tomorrow afternoon with the medical officer. I would like to state that I find his contribution to be of greater and greater importance. For the legal framework you can always call me at night and we are going to do very well here, but first we need to know how it would be best from that point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u94	It is important, because it differs from the answers we have received in writing. You say: yes, I want to give that space, it doesn't have to be uniform and I want to engage seriously with the municipalities. That's how I dress it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u95	I'm not going to say anything here today about exactly how it should be dressed. I told you, there's an AO on December 20th. Prior to the AO there will be a letter, in which we deal with all these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u96	Yes, you did. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u97	Then there is the political issue and not so much the question of how it is to be worked out. The SGP Group is, as we know, on the other side of the line. He says, "Please don't start those experiments." It's in the coalition agreement now that we're gonna do them. How does this Minister weigh up the arguments put forward by successive ministers of security and justice, namely that international conventions offer very little or no room for this, and that this is a very unfortunate signal to young people, too, who we want to give the message of 'don't get started'? How does the Minister weigh those two counter-arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u98	First of all, an agreement has been made in the coalition agreement to do this experiment. The Minister for Medical Care and I are now discussing this experiment in the coalition agreement. Then, of course, we will have to discuss with you as a Chamber, and at first with the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, how we can shape this experiment in such a way that it corresponds to, whatever you outline, the reasonably limited international space that exists, and how we put it together in such a way that we address all possible health aspects and other social issues as well as possible. I think we should have a more substantive discussion on this on 20 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u99	Sure, but that discussion is also about the interpretation. But now I'm actually talking about the social signal: if all the attention is now focused on experiments that need to be made to enable this cultivation to be tolerated, how does that relate to the message that we want to put forward at the same time to young people so that we can please not start with it? We see that it is not as innocent as was often thought. How do we prevent that message from snowing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u100	Well, how do we stop that message from snowing? By including that element in the weighting that determines what the experiment should look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u101	First of all, as far as overseas is concerned, we do not need to make it more exciting than it is, because there are already a lot of countries, such as Canada, where they really go farther than we do. But I understand the Minister is having a meeting tomorrow. He says he wants to have the conversation, also with his colleague for Medical Care, to learn maximum from the experiments. The Minister is not just there to listen, he also has his own input in that conversation, I suppose. What kind of things does the Minister want to learn? Then what's his input in this conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u102	My contribution to the discussion will be to establish, within the framework of the government agreement, an experiment which is legally feasible and useful in any case and which then fits within the framework indicated by medical care. And yes, I repeat, let's finish that journey to December 20th.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u103	Now the Minister is confusing me. Because the coalition agreement contains uniform projects. I think the Minister has just said that he is prepared to take a very broad look. I would like to say through the President: hold on to that last thought that it is good to have a broad look. In view of the need to learn a lot, too, I think it is necessary not to make it uniform, to hold on to that last thought and not to go back to the coalition agreement, because I think that is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u104	Let me say this: there is a clear formula in the coalition agreement. I can tell you one thing: I am going to keep it, not only because I would not be standing here if there was no government agreement, but also because we really need to have the framework very clearly. At least we'll have to start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u105	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u106	And that's as far as I go. It's getting a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u107	Don't repeat. Please continue with the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u108	I'm afraid I'm becoming some kind of hanging record myself. It's December 20th.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u109	Well, that's not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u110	Okay, thank you. That's encouraging again. Madam President. Then traffic enforcement. In the letter of 20 June, my predecessor indicated that he would like to explore the scenario of a progressive system of fines. This system means that certain offences currently covered by the Administrative Enforcement Act can be subject to higher penalties if there is a recurrence. The contours for such a progressive system of fines in the Wahv have been worked out over the past few months. In the first quarter of 2018, police, OM, CJIB and justice will take an execution test to see if this could be the best form. Based on the results of that test, I will come forward with a final position on that system in mid-2018. Let's talk about the point of tapping while you're driving. I believe that we can draw this more broadly to anything that relates to distracting activities while driving, but above all by digital means. I share the concern of the Chamber expressed in dealing with the IenW budget on the use of mobile phones in traffic. I think it is primarily important that people are moved through awareness not to append or call while driving. In that respect, of course, criminal law always comes after it. But I will certainly work on this issue in consultation with my colleague to see how we could do something about it with additional legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u111	I thank the Minister for his answer on this point. Yesterday, in the IenW debate, this issue was also discussed extensively. What I've missed in the whole is the chance of getting caught. We can regulate the legislation neatly, but can the Minister also talk about the chance of getting caught? To what extent will the police see this as a spearhead in the coming period by noticing that people are doing this and then tackling these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u112	There are two things that apply. We have recently seen again in a court ruling how difficult it is to finally get the evidence around. If we are to observe this in the current legislative system in these cases, then the question is whether you should first tighten up your legislation rather than putting more emphasis on it now. I admit that this question has a high rhetorical character. For someone who has done something with his mobile phone at the time when he was not supposed to do so, namely behind the wheel, perhaps there is a chance, but then we will not get into the criminal proceedings through the perhaps incomplete legislation. That's a long line. I am actually saying that we should now focus on tightening up legislation rather than simply using more police officers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u113	On the actual questions, I have received the answer that 46 million are going to the police for the traffic enforcement teams. There were all kinds of nice things done in the past, except in the area of traffic enforcement. Would the Minister at least promise that the money earmarked for traffic enforcement will also be used for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u114	In general, if money has a destination, it is also used for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u115	I also have a question on enforcement, but on the control of driving under the influence. We can see that the number of checks has decreased, but the number of traffic victims due to driving under the influence is still very high. My simple question is: will the cabinet and this minister send and deploy more checks on driving under the influence?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u116	I can tell you that I had a specific meeting with my officials on this matter last Monday, because I share your concern to some extent. We have concluded that we certainly need to pay particular attention to this in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u117	So, concretely: this will be a higher priority and there will be more checks on driving under the influence in the coming period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u118	You haven't heard me say that. But I do see it as a priority to see what we can do to further reduce the DUI.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u119	Obviously. Then there is a question from my side: have I understood correctly that the Minister wants to use reckless driving as a way of getting it done while driving? This issue was discussed in some detail yesterday in the infrastructure budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u120	It is right that you should ask this question. In fact, I did wish to spare you that I would use the same text as you heard from my colleague from IenW yesterday, but that is the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u122	I was actually done with the traffic enforcement issue. If it's all right with you, I'd like to move on to cybersecurity.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mrs. Helder had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u124	I had to think for a moment because the number of interruptions is limited, but I still want to make them. The NFI recently announced that the number of saliva samples sent in for driving under the influence of alcohol is not only so high as a result of the new legislation that the NFI is unable to handle it within the time required. Perhaps a little premature, but it should not be the case that the number of checks will be reduced again because the NFI is clogged?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u125	That message, of course, gives a very positive and negative feeling. The positive feeling is that we have set up very good controls and a lot of people have run into the light. That is also the terrible, bad news; let that be clear. I will be discussing this issue with the NFI shortly, and we need to see how we can deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'm happy about that, Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister send a letter to the Chamber on this, so that we can involve it in general consultations in due course?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u127	I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u128	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u129	I had arrived at cybersecurity, cybercrime. The threats in the digital domain have recently been firmly reflected in the Cybersecurity image 2017. I would like to stress to your Chamber that it is really not just about what is now called 'fake news'. It's much wider. It's threats that are putting increasing pressure on our security device. But our economy is also suffering, simply because of cyber economic espionage. That is why the cabinet invests heavily in strengthening digital security. There is a first additional financial boost from this budget, and the government agreement is a major step in this direction. Importantly, cybersecurity is a matter for all of us. I may have a coordinating role in that, but I do so together with EZK, Home Affairs, IenW, Foreign Affairs, Defence and OCW. We need to work together on a joint cyber agenda. We also need citizens and businesses to do so. We will come up with a cyber security agenda, which I have managed, which will focus on safe hardware and software, the issues surrounding the Internet of Things, and the strengthening of the National Cyber Security Centre. These are all important conditions in order to strengthen our digital security. The MP Van Oosten has rightly wondered whether we have a sufficient picture of what competences are needed for successful cyber detectives, also in the light of the currently low resolution rate in cybercrime. The police have the necessary skills in mind. For the preservation of HBOs for the police organisation, it is important that they are carefully supervised and given the space and resources that fit the professional ambitions. The police also have a labour-conditional remuneration tool that is well-targeted. With Deputy Pride That is not an achievement of mine, but from the police themselves I can also say that the police in the category non-profit this year for the third time in a row has been elected to be the most popular employer among Dutch highly educated. The outflow of digital experts was less than 1% between the end of November 2015 and September 2016. The MP Verhoeven, supported by Van Oosten, asked me, as Minister of Justice and Security and coordinator in the field of cyber security, to consult the Ministers of Education, Culture and Science and Economic Affairs and Climate in the short term to see how we can pool knowledge, expertise and money in cyber security in our country. Yeah, I'd like to make a full commitment here. I will discuss this with these ministers, because I think it is very important that we link that knowledge in the field of cybersecurity. We have, of course, been working on this in recent years, especially at the Ministry of Justice. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has also put a number of questions to the ministers of EZK and OCW, I believe, on 23 November. I think it is very good that we should come back to that soon from the cabinet. I have one last thing that is definitely related to cybersecurity. I was triggered by the question by the MP Van Toorenburg about the bitcoins. I won't be talking about the explosive increase in bitcoins. That is another problem. However, I would like to address the question of what to do against money laundering via bitcoin machines. In general, money laundering is punishable by virtual currency. That has already led to convictions in the past. The risk of virtual currencies is therefore recognised by the relevant administrations. For this reason, both De Nederlandsche Bank and the Public Prosecutor's Office have warned the public. The rules of the current law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing already apply to the exchange of cash from €15,000. I can also tell you that the Fifth EU Anti-Money Laundering Directive, which is currently under negotiation, is expected to ensure that stricter rules will apply to providers of virtual currency exchange services. So at least we're working on that, as you can see. Also from the subject of anti-undermining we keep a close eye on this. The fight against terrorism. I've been... two weeks...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u130	I see Mr Verhoeven standing. He's waiting till the end. That's fine. Proceed, Minister. Oh, you're moving on to another subject now? Mr Verhoeven would like to ask about the previous point on cybercrime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u131	I welcome the answer, both in writing and in an oral manner. It's nice that the cabinet makes it a top priority. It's also nice to have that vision letter in the spring. Collaboration supports everyone. At first, the problem with cybersecurity was that it was always a bit of an underrated subject. That's over now. But the new danger is fragmentation. It is a good thing that so many ministries will now be involved. But how is this minister going to do in the consultations he has planned with the ministries he mentions, and I would also like to add VWS to that, if I may, to try to organize a little more structuralally in the coming years? So I am not talking about one-off consultations, but about building a genuine integrated agenda with a number of ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think the question "will we make this a structural consultation?" We must also be on the agenda for the discussions that we are about to hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u133	That's very good. If the Minister is going to raise that point in that discussion, does he have any idea what the answer to that question should be and what he himself is going to do when he is in that discussion? In other words: does the Minister himself see added value in a more structural dialogue between these different ministries?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u134	Yes. I say that wholeheartedly. I said at the beginning that this is one of my spearheads. I've repeated that one more time. I'm the one who's supposed to be pulling the cart and keeping it on track. I really think cybercrime is on the rise. The number of high-impact crimes has fallen, but in the meantime cybercrime is an emerging phenomenon. Cybersecurity is a really big point for all of us, because our computers, laptops and mobile phones do not always provide the security against intruders we would like to have. Let me give you a very simple example of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u135	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u136	The fight against terrorism: I offered the Threat Picture of Terrorism Netherlands 46 to your Chamber two weeks ago. The jihadist threat has by no means been reduced. We must also take into account the possibility of violence from other quarters, for example by right-wing or left-wing extremists or groups. Last week I sent you the Integral Approach to terrorism, in which I set out the priorities in counter-terrorism policy. This comprehensive approach to prevention to repression focuses on the so-called five V's: obtaining information on potential threats, preventing and disrupting extremism and terrorism and preventing attacks, defending and protecting individuals, objects and vital processes against extremist and terrorist threats, both physically and digitally, by ensuring that we are optimally prepared for extremist and terrorist violence and its consequences and prosecuting, maintaining the democratic rule of law against extremism and terrorism. For all this, the cabinet has made a structural reservation of 13 million extra. We are going to use this to strengthen, inter alia, the online approach to extremism, investment in deradicalisation, the fight against the financing of terrorism and the strengthening of international cooperation. In this context, the MP Van der Staaij has asked the necessary questions about the use of that money. I think those lines have been outlined by me by now. I think I have indicated that we are continuing to put a very focused, very heavy priority on this. I can't stress that enough. The MP Hiddema has asked about the extension of remand. Does the level of suspicion remain unchanged? The relevant passage in the coalition agreement refers to a section of the draft law on strengthening criminal law against terrorism (34746). This is in view of extending the possibility of holding suspects of terrorist offences in remand without the need for serious objections, such as a more solid suspicion. This is now possible in the case of terrorist suspects for 14 days. It is proposed to extend that period to 30 days. Some questions have also been asked about the issue of the events in De Balie in Amsterdam on 14 September 2017, among others by Mr.Hiddema and Mr.De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u137	On a point of order, Mr De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u138	Last night my heart was full of expectation because of the written answer. He's here. That is why I would like to raise a point of order with the Minister, because my questions have not actually been answered. At least the questions about administrative detention are, but all the other questions have been answered in a brief general way to my first question and are referred back to it. I would encourage the Minister to go into the answers to my questions in depth, especially since the Minister refers to the Minister of the Interior in reply to question 1, but he is only concerned with political responsibility for the AIVD, while the implementation of anti-terrorism policy lies with the Minister of Justice and Security. I would therefore like to encourage him to go into it very deeply and give a lot of answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u139	Good. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u140	Madam President, perhaps it would be a good idea to start by saying what I really wanted to say. Then we can still assess whether more would be needed. First of all, I would like to stress that, of course, the Cabinet understands the many concerns about this, but I cannot make a public statement on individual cases. I already explained that to the press on Friday. I can tell you that people who pose a threat to national security are being closely monitored by our services, who are really making full use of them. The D.A., the police and the services are on alert. Appropriate to the threat, measures are always taken if there is a legal basis for doing so. The use of the General Intelligence and Security Service is indeed the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. However, as you know and as she herself emphasised last Friday, she too cannot comment on individual cases. This is, as I have said very clearly, also in the context of the importance that our services can do their job well. A number of MPs asked about that meeting at De Balie. That is why I would like to say the following. Prior to the meeting, the police, as usual, had contact with De Balie about security. The police have made an assessment in accordance with the prescribed procedure. The police have informed the uniformed service. She had a direct line with De Balie. The Bar has taken internal security measures. On the night in question, De Balie contacted the police after the man left. The police have arrived at the scene and have spoken to those present who would have recognized the man. In view of the above, I conclude that the police acted in accordance with the regular procedure. That's all I can and will say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u141	Well, then I'm gonna interrupt on this. The Minister cannot say anything about individual cases, as he now says and has also said to the press. We looked at it again in response to that remark against the press. Nowhere is it written that the Minister should not say anything about individual cases. In fact, I would like to recall a debate and a letter of inquiry on Mr El Bakraoui. That was an individual case. I remember a letter of inquiry about Anis Amri, assassinator in Berlin. There were letters of inquiry and debates. We have had debates here on Mauro, which the Netherlands should not or should not leave. So the Minister can say anything about individual cases. In addition, this man was on his own, but he threatened a lot of individual cases and therefore a very large group of people. Since there are enough indications that there are many more of these types of guests out there in the Netherlands and in the Schengen area and the EU and they can easily get on false passports here, I expect the Minister to take a deep line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u142	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u143	The Netherlands deserves...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u144	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u145	... just to know more about safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u146	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u147	You mention a number of cases. Mauro's example was an issue where there was no consideration of the safety and detection importance of our services. I cannot say anything about individual cases when I consider that it is not relevant in the context of the investigation and policy of the services. I gave a very clear description of the behaviour of the police in relation to that meeting, as you call it 'a group of individual cases'. I have also told you that I am in favour of this, and that my conclusion is that the police have acted in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u148	I brought the letters to the Chambers. The Minister addresses the case of Mauro, but not those other two cases, of El Bakraoui and Amri. That was definitely about the services. That was indeed about the fight against terrorism. That was indeed about the safety of the Netherlands. In addition, a whole pack of MPs here on Tuesday told the interrupting microphone that they think this is a serious matter. That was a large majority of the House who simply wants answers from the Minister. We have also read a number of MPs in the press. It would therefore be of respect to the Chamber and to society if the Minister did not hide behind 'I cannot rule on an individual case' and did not just say 'go to sleep'. No, we can't sleep quietly in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u149	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u150	The Netherlands deserves an answer, so the Minister needs to tell us more about this. I have asked neat, honest, neat questions and the Minister simply refuses to answer. That can only mean one thing, that's that there's shit on the marble. I want to know what shit that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u151	Madam President, I am going to repeat myself horribly, but if I am to be accused of disrespecting the Chamber and, worse still, society, then I must put you and the other Members of Parliament on that repetition. I cannot comment on individual cases in situations such as this, in which the services play a role. Nor can I make any statements which may harm the methods of investigation of the services in a general sense. So you can't talk about it. Secondly, I indicated how the police responsible for me acted around the meeting in De Balie, and I concluded that the police acted in full compliance with the directives in force. Of course, I am not talking about exactly how you get your sleep, but I have made it very clear that our services are simply functioning well and doing their job well, and that the police have just done their job in this case in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u152	I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u153	A point of order? Mr Verhoeven was first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u154	With all due respect for Mr De Graaf's concerns, I would like to make one point of order. That's what I did yesterday in the event of interruption. The fact that the Minister is not able to say anything about some things should not lead to the conclusion that there is shit on the marble. That is what Mr De Graaf suggested, but that is really not the case. Before the Dutch people think "the minister says nothing, so there's shit to the marble": that's just not the case. Furthermore, all the questions put by Mr De Graaf are, of course, justified, but then the Minister must also be able to give the answer he wants and can give on his own behalf. Then we should not pretend that this leads to the certainty that something is going on, because it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u155	I would like to make a point of order, as I said. I just asked simple questions about the status of that gentleman and about the fake passport. Where'd he get that? That's the kind of business I asked for. If I may read the list: CDA, VVD, SGP, D66, DENK and the SP have all said that they are very worried. Surely the Minister should be able to tell us where the fake passport mentioned in the message came from, and what kind of status this man had in the Netherlands, and where he's still out there? Because now it seems like the minister has no control over these people. Of course, the services are paying attention. I have great respect for the work the services do, but I just want answers to those questions. I actually ask for the support of the other Members of Parliament to get more answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u156	I shall go to Mr Van Oosten first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u157	I'd like some answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u158	Yeah, I'll give you an opportunity in a minute. Mr Van Oosten on this point. Do you have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u159	No, I just want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u160	Okay, I'll give the Minister the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u161	Look, I say through you to Mr. De Graaf, I am responsible...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u162	But I asked the MPs a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u163	Just for a second. Don't panic. Then you'll have to make a proposal first. What exactly is your proposal? It's an order proposal, isn't it? That's what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u164	Yeah, I just did.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u165	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u166	I want a more detailed answer, specifically focused on the status of this man in the Netherlands. Where is he? Where did his fake passport come from? I want more information on that. For that, I want support from the MPs, towards the Minister, for the request to come forward with that information. Yeah, the sentence's a bit the other way around. But I ask for support from the MPs to get more information about the status and the false passport. Where did he get that and where is this gentleman now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u167	Good. That's just a question to the Minister. You don't need support for that, but I'm still looking at the spokesmen. Mrs Van Toorenburg was there first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u168	I have read the Minister's answers and, as much as I would like more information, I understand the Minister's response. I have a supplementary question which is less detailed than Mr De Graaf's. If I don't get the answer, I'll think about it. But the fact is, I do understand why the Minister is saying what he's saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u169	Mr Van Oosten. I'm just going down the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u170	I have no reason to desire more now than what the Minister says. I trust he'll tell us what he can tell us. I would like to ask a general question in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u171	Yes, I don't count this, in case you think: there goes my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u172	I too can fully follow the Minister. When we look at the countries around us, we see that much less serious things have happened here than elsewhere. This is due to the fact that the Minister cannot and must not say everything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u173	It is fine that Mr De Graaf makes this point, but I also follow the Minister's line in this matter and am satisfied with the extent to which he can respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u174	I think the questions are justified. We share the concerns too, but we cannot see what the consequences will be if the Minister puts everything on the table now. This would potentially hinder the search and prosecution interest. The examples mentioned by Mr De Graaf are, in my view, matters that have been closed, on which some sort of evaluation is taking place. Then we can call the Minister to account afterwards. For now, we have no choice but to ask the Minister for a guarantee that everything will be done and that the services will be sharp. It's hard to accept, but I don't think it's any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u175	I agree with Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u176	I agree, but I would like to ask the Minister to do the utmost in what he can or cannot answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u177	I don't understand, but that's okay. The Minister understands, and that's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u178	I can follow the Minister's reasoning. I do believe that it is also the right of Members of Parliament to always try to ask new questions and to ask him if he really can't say something. That is the normal question-and-answer game that we can also have on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u179	You're right about that. That's why I said you don't need support from the rest if you're asking for information. It is up to the Minister to respond. Mr. Van Oosten, you've already been.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u180	I understand the position in which the Minister claims to be in and that there are major investigative interests at stake. However, I do not see one-two-three breach of any investigative interest if the Minister can confirm or at least answer the question whether this man is still in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u181	Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u182	Do I have to answer the questions in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u183	You don't have to respond to everyone, because almost all MPs...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u184	In fact, I would like to link Mrs Kuik and Mr Hiddema, if they themselves agree, with each other, in question. Mrs Kuik rightly says that I must go to the extreme with what I can say. I started by saying I understand the concerns. I also said in front of the NOS camera on Friday that I also understand the inconvenience, but I can assure you that, as Mr Van Nispen put it correctly, it is precisely the importance of the detection, the alert and the possible prosecution that prevents me from saying things on current issues. This is exactly the same in every case, but it applies to my colleague, the Minister for Legal Protection. In any case, I would like to say the following to Mr De Graaf. As Minister of Justice and Security, I am responsible for security. I take that very seriously. I know that your party has sometimes had doubts about this, as far as I am concerned, but I can assure you that I am in a position to ensure that our services are fully aware of what is going on and that I am in the interests of security in order to limit my response. Mr President, through you to Mr Hiddema, as I said, I am not going to make statements on individual issues in which our services may play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u185	All right, then, I would like to close this point of order. Then you can possibly just ask questions about this part. I promised Mrs Van Toorenburg that I would give her the floor. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u186	I would like to ask the Minister, in the future, to take note of the fact that there has been a great deal of unrest and unrest among the people of Amsterdam, especially in De Balie. They called in the police at some point, but they didn't. Can the Minister specifically share his concerns about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u187	This is factually incorrect. The police have come, Mrs. Van Toorenburg. That's what was in the paper and I verified it myself. I am telling you honestly, and that is all I am going to say: it bothers me if we create concerns with each other on the basis of false facts. I say this now with some upliftment, while I read in Trouw this morning that I should not do so. It happened anyway. I really want to stress that we must keep our heads down on these issues, and I say this to Mr De Graaf of the PVV.............................................................................................................................................................................................. We have excellent services and a high-quality police force. I'm insisting that they work properly. I'm sure Mrs. Ollongren stands in exactly the same way for the AIVD. So let's stick to the facts. I understand, moreover, that there will be a 30-member debate on Tuesday, where you will be asking me with 30 Members of Parliament about this. I hope I have my voice back on the normal volume, but I'm sure we'll get out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u188	There's nothing wrong with raising your voice occasionally when it comes to these kinds of issues, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u189	I'm just glad the Minister didn't do what Trouw advised him to do. This was the answer I wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u190	In my opinion, there is nothing wrong with a little upliftment, especially on such a sensitive subject as this. I would like to ask the Minister a question about this case, but not about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u191	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u192	I have a purely hypothetical question, which I asked him yesterday. What if a non-Dutch person is suspected of terrorist offences committed abroad? Then when is anyone suspicious and when can someone be arrested? The Minister's answer is: that possibility exists when a person is suspected of terrorist offences. Which brings me to the question of when the evidence is complete. When is anyone sufficiently suspicious to really grab him by the scraps and to respond to the concerns that arise from the De Balie case? 'Cause I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u193	The problem is that I know from a previous job, with a job that I have been practicing for about 33 years, that the hypothetical case, especially in criminal law, is life-threatening, in a transferable sense. Why? Your delivery of evidence may depend on very small things. I also said last Friday that you can be assured that we will intervene immediately as soon as we have someone in our sights on Dutch territory, who we believe is even more evidence that he has been involved in terrorist activities. That we then have and keep in our sights as much as possible, that is what our services are doing day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u194	Finally, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u195	So the interpretation of the concept of "suspect of terrorist offences" is interpreted as narrowly as possible by the Minister of Justice and Security, so that one...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u196	I think you mean as broad as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u197	As broad as possible: you are absolutely right. That is what is being done to prevent unnecessary risks from being run because of people being targeted by our security services?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u198	Please note: as broad as possible within the framework of criminal law itself, and also within the framework of meaningful action. If we take away a person who is a potential threat to national security's passport because it was forged or something like that and we cannot expel him because the country to which he should be deported is a war zone, then we must realize that we should put someone like that back on the street after two days. And then he's out of sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u199	I'd like to ask the Minister how much longer he thinks he's gonna need.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u200	I hardly dare to bless it, but I'm kind of ready for the rounding. I have another question from Mrs Van Toorenburg and I would like to say a few words about administrative detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u201	That is good, and I would also like to ask whether you are in a position to give an opinion on the amendments in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u202	Yes, but I would like to suspend for two minutes, because the list of amendments has not yet been clearly broken down between my colleague and me. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u203	Yes. Then I suggest you finish the points you had left. You referred to a question from Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u204	Yes. Mrs Van Toorenburg has asked whether we can give priority to legislation that will criminalise intentional residence without permission in areas controlled by a terrorist organisation. This includes the extension of pre-trial detention and so on. The coalition agreement announced that the cabinet would still want to prepare and bring into proceedings a criminalisation of the unauthorized residence. I will go into detail in the note on the report accompanying the draft law on strengthening criminal law against terrorism in detail on how we can achieve this. I hope I'll give you a month's celebration. I expect that note to be submitted to the Chamber before Christmas in the light of the report. Then there was the point of Mr Markuszower about administrative detention. I would just like to say a few words about this at the moment. We could, of course, always discuss this in greater detail in that 30-member debate, but I also know that this has been discussed recently in your home. As the poet Elsschot says: between dream and deed laws and practical objections stand in the way. And there are many of them in the field of international conventions alone, apart from the fact that it is a highly controversial measure. So I would like to say that this is better suited to a wide-ranging debate at that 30-member meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u205	It is an extremely controversial measure. It is also extremely extreme circumstances in which we live. I brought it up, and then I got whistled back by the chairman. I saw your list. You wanted to discuss the national police, as well as undermining. We even talked about growing pot. The Minister continues to fine motorists who drive a 1 km too fast. We talked about cybersecurity. We did not talk about combating terrorism because the Minister did not want to answer. The Minister did not say anything, and this is the budget of Justice and Security about changing the Code of Criminal Law to make the Netherlands really safer. He didn't talk about administrative detention except the sentences "that can be discussed sometime later" and "oh, it's a very extreme measure." I see here a minister of "not wanting and unable" and not at all of Justice and Security. The minister doesn't want to introduce minimum sentences. He therefore wants the Netherlands to maintain a penal climate in which rapists of, for example, their stepdaughters spend two years in a cell, in which the murderer of Anne Faber, Mr Michael Panhuis, can kill again less than seven years after he was convicted of two rapes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u206	Mr. Markuszower, what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u207	So I see a minister who doesn't want to change the Code of Criminal Law, who doesn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u208	But would you like the Minister to take that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u209	Yes. I want to see a minister who's going to change the laws. Minister, now you're not listening. Just now, you told my colleague De Graaf that you would like him to look at you when you speak. You're not even giving back the same courtesy as I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u210	But this is an interruption, not a long speech. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u211	About the courtesy. Well, that's a real shame, aside from the fact that you walked out of the room a few times during my speech and probably missed...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u212	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u213	Well, then you'll have to appeal to Mr Markuszower. It is indeed courtesy that I am doing, because I asked my colleague Dekker something about the point of minimum punishment. We have a division of tasks and I did not want to get in the way of him in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u214	Then I suggest you...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u215	That is why I spoke to him for a moment, and I see no objection to that. By the way, perhaps while you were away, we discussed the extension of the provisional detention for...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u216	Mr President, I have serious objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u217	You will have the floor, you will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u218	We have talked about the adjustment of criminal law in the context of the extension of the provisional detention for terrorists who come back here. I have just announced that I will come forward with the note on criminalisation of residence in terrorist territory. Those are just a number of adjustments that we are working on. Once again, and I say this to you, I certainly want to have a real substantive discussion with you on something like administrative detention in about 30 Members. We must do this right, because that is a very controversial issue in international criminal law. So we need to have a good discussion about this and not discuss it now by the way, certainly not where it was discussed earlier in your Chamber and did not lead to anything at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u219	They're not in that area anymore. The problem is that these terrorists are no longer in that area, in war zone. They're here and it's gonna be a war zone here. And the Minister doesn't do anything about it, so he doesn't do anything about it. He doesn't mention minimum punishment again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u220	I'll say something about that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u221	It's your job. It is also up to the Minister, precisely in the area of Justice and Security, to give a general picture of, for example, the Code of Criminal Law, which needs to be changed. You keep forgetting. The Minister keeps forgetting to talk about this. And that's because the minister doesn't think it's important. It is clear that the Minister is fine with the fact that the penalties in the Netherlands are so low. I also read it in the written reply; the minister is perfectly fine with the administration of justice, it is well in order and the Minister does not want to change anything. So I see a minister of not wanting and not being able. The criminal climate remains low in the Netherlands with a CDA- and VVD-duo and terrorists are free in the Netherlands with this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u222	Yeah, about minimum sentences. The system of minimum penalties requires that all possible forms of criminal offence are defined by law. For all these forms, a minimum and maximum penalty should be set, including punitive circumstances. Our Code of Criminal Law contains general definitions of criminal offences that can be used for both the lightest and the worst criminal scenario. The judge has a wide range of sanctions and can always provide tailor-made services and impose an appropriate penalty on a case-by-case basis. In my opinion, this is what the criminal court is doing very conscientiously and professionally. I do not therefore see any reason to change this system completely and to limit the freedom to impose penalties by means of minimum penalties. I see Mr Markuszower typing, I hope he has been able to keep up with my text.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u223	Don't provoke, I'd say. Yeah, that's what I thought. Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u224	We have a new minister and I understand that he was the man in the boardroom of Allen & Overy, but in this Chamber the minister is my guest. And if the Minister does not understand how parliamentary democracy works, namely that the ministers are here and that we control the minister and we tell the ministers how to behave in this house, then the Minister should first take a course and not appeal to me about what I am doing. I was typing to see what I can say in my next interruption. Minister, please add two minutes in the suspension that has just been announced and take a quick course on how to behave in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u225	I am going to put an end to five minutes of free wrestling, I would say, and I give the floor to the Minister to deal with the substance of the matter, no, Mrs Van Toorenburg, I am sorry about Mr Markuszower's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u226	I think I've answered the point of minimum punishment by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u227	About something completely different if you don't mind. The Minister asked earlier to trust that he genuinely weighs what information can be given. That, of course, affects the confidence in the Ministry. That's some kind of pink elephant in the room. I had asked a few questions about this, some of which was answered, especially a little woolly. My specific question is: what cultural problems in the JenV ministry now consider the most urgent to address? Because that there is a change path, I had already noticed myself. It's like it's business as asual, with just an extra minister in it. But there was a lot going on. Hence my question. What culture problem at the Ministry is now the most urgent that you want to address with this process of change?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u228	I can honestly tell you that in the period when I myself am walking around the Ministry of Justice, I see a ministry that is extremely well-functioning. I see that what may have happened in the past to cultural differences between merged parts has now been added, as it is called. I do not think there are any urgent issues relating to the culture of the Ministry. You spoke yesterday about security of integrity. I believe that this is an issue that should always be high on the agenda, especially in the area of justice and security, and I am convinced that this is also the motto of every official working in that ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u229	I'm worried about this. The minister hasn't been there very long. I would just like to inform him that, of course, it was previously noted in reports that the Ministry was too internal, that it kept information in its chambers and that there was insufficient cooperation. That was not about an incident, but that was a culture; that was indicated after extensive research. That's not something you're gonna change in three months. So I just want to ask the Minister to at least keep an open mind. I understand he wants to stand in front of his ministry, but you stand in front of it by staying open about the problems that exist. So it's good that the change process has started, but if we think right now "well, it's already solved," then I don't have much faith in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u230	I am also telling you honestly that I am talking about the first five weeks of my work in the Ministry and about the positive impression that I have left to the culture as it is in many aspects. But you are right to ask: do you keep an open mind? I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u231	I have another question about the terrorist approach. I saw a top five minister in the written reply. In fact, I missed the very successful local approach, i.e. cooperation between all kinds of local organisations, aimed at preventing all kinds of developments, seeing radicalisation quickly. We have no Molenbeek in the Netherlands, no banlieues, no no-goareas. I think that is one of the success elements of our approach. I kind of missed that in the Minister's response. Would he care to comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u232	I can be very brief about that. Then it should be a top six, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u233	You have doubts, but the Minister agrees with you, Mr Verhoeven!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u234	I have to get used to that. I've been in opposition for seven years. I usually got long answers where I didn't get my way. Now I get short answers in which I'm served.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u235	Now you're all confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u236	That is also new to me, Mr President!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u237	That's good. Thank you. Then I'm still looking...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u238	A brief suspension, for the amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u239	I understand that there is a need for an opinion on the amendments, but after the Minister for Legal Protection has been present. Then you can check it out in between. We're gonna suspend for two minutes anyway, and then we're gonna move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u240	I call the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u241	Thank you, Mr President. As you can see, there are three of us today, and that says something about the weight of the matter we are talking about, namely security and justice. This affects people's lives all over the Netherlands. I will deal with the questions that were asked yesterday, but perhaps I can say a few words about my new job first. Last year I was standing here with a different hat, that of education. Then we had an interesting discussion about citizenship. I told you that in all the schools where I came and to every teacher I met I said: also pay attention to the fundamental values and freedoms of the Netherlands. Besides language and math, education is so much more. Name in class the importance of the democratic rule of law. And teach children, our future citizens, that the basic principles of our free society are not self-evident. The interesting thing is that this is actually a message that I will be happy to convey very loudly and clearly over the next four years. I am honoured to be able to contribute to the foundations of justice, security and legal protection. Mr. Chairman. Legal protection is so much more than a theoretical concept or a set of laws and rules. In my view, legal protection is the feeling that every citizen of this country is actually experiencing the fact that he is protected by law. Three things are of great importance here. Firstly, one could say: the protection of the rule of law from forces that undermine him. Secondly, protection by the State. Thirdly, the protection of citizens sometimes also against the State. I will briefly explain this three-step in my introduction, because it includes the priorities for me for the years to come. First of all, the protection of the rule of law itself. We should not take what we have here in the Netherlands for granted. In my view, we sometimes have too little thought about the serious threats to our democratic rule of law, because they are there. Sometimes they come from outside. Think of dubious money flows from abroad to organizations here that turn against our freedoms and achievements. Sometimes they come from the inside: serious and organized crime, my colleague Grapperhaus has just said something about what scares people in neighborhoods and who sometimes sketches the picture that you get away with it in the Netherlands, that bad behavior actually pays more than good behavior. That is why, together with my colleague, I want to give priority to protecting that rule of law in the near future. Then there is the protection of the citizen by the state. Everything starts with safety. That was at least 15 years ago for me to go into local politics, here in The Hague. I thought it could be better in the area of security and public order. For a number of weeks now, my colleague Ferd Grapperhaus and I have been working together to offer protection to citizens and businesses in the Netherlands together with many implementing agencies. A lot has already been said about police and prosecutors. I see my job, in football terms, more in the second half: how can we ensure that we provide protection after an offender has been tried? In my view, there are major challenges for the system of effective punishments, punishments that do justice to the suffering of victims and which set a clear standard, but also the implementation of penalties that reduce future risks to society, with more work being done on resocialisation. In my view, that is where prisons, the fight against recidivism and victim care come together in the protection of citizens by the state. A lot of questions have been asked about that. I'll deal with that in a big block later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u242	A general introduction is fine, but I would like you to address the issues that you have informed the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u243	To conclude my introduction, the third part of my mission is to protect citizens from the state. That is perhaps legal protection in the most classical sense of the word: against the arbitrariness of the government, against the risk of abuse of power. The system of laws and independent justice gives air to our society and also provides security and stability. In the Netherlands, journalists do not disappear behind bars without a trial, peaceful demonstrators are not broken up and entrepreneurs do not have to be afraid that a subsequent cabinet or government will expropriate their business. That is why we must be so careful about the rule of law and that requires maintenance. I would like to address the questions. I've got three big blocks. First of all, let me say something about undermining. Secondly, I would like to say something about more effective penalties, including questions about TBs and implementation. Thirdly, there has been a great deal of discussion on justice and legal aid, including alternative forms of justice, and finally privacy. Mr President, undermining...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u244	The Minister of Justice has also taken up undermining, so I assume you have a brief comment to make on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u245	I was just getting on my feet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yeah, but we've been listening to it for a long time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u247	Mr. Chairman. Undermining is a multi-headed monster. If you want to tackle this, it requires action on many fronts, not only criminal law, but also civil law and administrative law, with both preventive and repressive means. My colleague and I are in it together. Mr Grapperhaus will take the lead in that, but I will briefly answer some of the questions that have been asked. Mr Van Oosten, for example, asked a question about the Bibob. Can't you do more with that than it is now? It is a very nice tool that helps to prevent the interwovenness of the underworld and the upper world and that can contribute to integrity. I find the suggestions that have been made interesting, even sometimes complicated here and there. Let's take this exploration with all these local partners to see if we can't expand that effective tool of the Bibob on parts. That's definitely gonna be part of the Undermining Act. Why? Mr Van Oosten mentioned this and gave an example. How come someone at the Reeuwijkse Plassen lives in a very nice house and apparently lives in wealth, but the CJIB has agreed to a payment arrangement with him? Well, at least you'd have to take his assets with you, wouldn't you? That's exactly where sometimes the shoe wrings. These kinds of people are very good at ensuring that financial flows are put away and that they have as little formal ownership as possible, but they do use a lot of things that normally only people who have a lot of money in their pockets can use. That's a long fight. We will certainly go into that. That all comes back to the plan you're getting in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u248	For the record, the Minister, as well as his colleague for Justice and Security, states that there will be a discussion with all local partners. I understand that, and you should, above all, do the same. Perhaps many more themes could be brought forward to be included in the Undermining Act. But I didn't think of this in the morning when I got up. Of course, this was also provided to me by those same local partners. In my opinion, we should not wait too long to roll this out, to make sure that the Bibob test is complete, to make sure that you manage the registration of the permits and to ensure that private owners can also be warned by their municipality when they threaten to go into the sea with criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u249	I think this should be a subject of discussion when we're on the table with all those partners. Maybe there'll be two or three more wishes. Then it's up to us to weigh what we can. What would that require of organizations? Is it legal to fit in in a good way? You ask a number of questions, for example about the Bibob: can private persons also request a Bibob test? That is a huge extension of the scope of Bibob's instrument. Before we promise to do that, I think we should have looked at it together first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u250	For the record, I didn't ask. It's an interesting question, by the way. I'll save it. What I have asked is whether in the form of a traffic lights model the private owner can be informed, without going into detail, whether it can be considered safe to go into business with the person who wants to rent from him. If that person is a criminal, then the owner will not benefit, the municipality will not benefit, the district agent will not benefit, and especially the children who grow up in the neighborhood will not benefit at all. We're just gonna have to take care of that, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u251	I see your point. Currently, municipalities work with such a traffic light model. If you make a tender or if you grant a permit, the municipality can apply to the National Bureau Bibob, at the Justis department. They'll tell you if it's safe, then you'll get a green light, or there'll be possible branches to criminal networks, and then you'll get a red light. That's what local authorities can do. You say that the private landlord of shopping premises on that street in Rotterdam should be able to do the same. This means extending the scope of the instrument from co-government only to private organisations. That really has some feet in the earth. I think it is an interesting idea, and I think we should take it with us, especially if you have heard from mayors that that's why they're jumping, but I really think it's premature to say that we're going to do that, because we really need to look into its effectiveness and desirability. Mr. Chairman. Then we're dealing with criminal motorcycle gangs. Mr Hiddema was philosophizing about this in detail yesterday. What matters to us is that we stop those clubs, left or right. So whether we do that through civil law or administrative law, I don't care as much as it is effective. Mr Kuik has already indicated that he is in the process of drawing up an initiative legislative proposal, to which our predecessor has also responded. I would suggest that we wait for that too. I do not care very much whether the initiative comes from the Chamber or from the Cabinet, if it is just a good bill, if it can count on support in this Chamber and as long as it happens with speed. Then Mrs Van Toorenburg asked questions about Article 2:20 Civil Code and how we deal with it, because its extension could provide tools to prevent anti-democratic organisations too. I expect a preliminary draft bill in the first half of 2018. Then it can go into consultation. So they're working hard on that. Mrs Van der Graaf asked me what the cabinet wants to do about dubious money flows from non-free countries. That is being investigated at the moment. There is also something about it in the coalition agreement. In doing so, we want to work on the basis of the principle of reciprocity. I can say that it is still quite a complicated task in the legal field. We will return to that in the first quarter of 2018. Mr. Chairman. As far as prevention is concerned, a number of comments have been made on the Centre for Crime Prevention and Security (CCV). Two amendments have been tabled. The Van Oosten/Van Dam amendment to item No. 30 would be an amendment where we could leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mrs Buitenweg has the amendment to item No. 26, which is essentially intended to maintain the subsidy for this organization, even with a slightly larger amount. That sounds attractive, of course, but there is a problem in the coverage. She takes the money away from the article Penalty and Protecting, especially in a number of prevention things that are going on there in the field of high-impact crimes. We would both find that very undesirable. Mr President, that is, as far as I am concerned, the block of undermining. Then I'm gonna go to the block and punish it more effectively. In the coalition agreement, we announced that we are going to work towards more effective enforcement of sanctions and measures, sanctions that do justice to the suffering of victims and also set a clear standard. One of the changes we want to make is that convicted persons will no longer automatically be eligible for conditional release. First, the vi will be shortened in length. That's definitely gonna affect the longer sentences, punish for more than six years. The period during which a convicted person can work on his resocialisation through a conditional release is therefore up to two years. We are also thinking of a system in which inmates must earn their conditional release by good behavior. In short, from a sort of "yes, unless" to a "no, unless." This can also contribute to more socialisation. The SGP announced, through Mr Van der Staaij, an initiative proposal which I look forward to with great interest. It's actually about the same subject. Perhaps we should discuss this at a later date and also follow the appropriate route. Mr Van der Staaij has now presented it to a number of experts. I can imagine that would lead him to a number of adjustments. We will also be working on an initiative along the lines of the coalition agreement. I look forward to the discussion we'll have. Maybe we're growing closer together. Mr. Chairman. Another important objective of punishment is the reduction of recidivism. In that respect, there is still a world to be won. When I was allowed to deal with this dossier, I was shocked by the relapse rates in the Netherlands. Although they are slightly down, almost 50% of ex-convicts are in contact with the Justice Department within two years and almost 70% of suspects have been in contact with the Justice Department before. I also feel broad support here in this debate in the Chamber to work on this aspect. That is also of great social value, because if you can make sure that someone doesn't repeat it, then that will save the police and the prosecutor's office a lot of suffering and again a prison sentence, which will also cost a lot of money and hassle. If we can get people back on the right track, it's incredibly worth it. I was asked if I could light up a tip of the veil that I am thinking of. Well, a very nice document has been sent by my predecessor, Kursen and Kansen, an official document, but there are a number of lines, such as better connection of detention and probation, a more personal approach to detention and, of course, the continuation of phase-in detention, as Mrs Van Toorenburg asked. I come in spring with the vision of the prison system, where the part of reducing relapse will be absolutely an important point. Perhaps it would also be a good idea if I deal directly with the amendment to item No. 32 by Mrs Van der Graaf, which is about the voluntary work that focuses on ex-convicts. Can volunteers also play a role in ensuring that people stay on the straight track? This is a budget neutral amendment, which actually says: this really needs to be included in the subsidy scheme for voluntary organisations. I have no objection to that and therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen spoke about the recent DJI agreement. I'm very happy about that myself. Last week we already got a look at, but then we still had a cliffhanger and it is now finished. I think it's wonderful that unions, works council and DJI have joined forces. There is now also an amount of EUR 4 times EUR 25 million, EUR 100 million to invest over the next four years in good human resources policy, craftsmanship and a number of pain points felt by people in the workplace. I did hear a slightly critical undertones in Mr Van Nispen's speech. Isn't that a cigar from your own box? I really don't think so. If that had been the case, the unions would not have signed this covenant. Of course it comes from the assets of the prison system, but that money could also have been used for a lot of other things. We're really putting it up for the staff right now. I am very happy with that, because it gives peace at the front. This rest will be very much needed if we are to discuss a number of substantive changes and challenges with each other in the spring. Then we need these people very much. Mr. Chairman. Then TBs. Mr Van Oosten and Mrs Kuik have advocated the possibility of imposing TBs after two years of detention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u252	Before you continue, Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u253	These prison staff have been concerned and have been taking action for a long time. That finally helped, because they've been heard. The work pressure should be reduced and the safety situation improved. That's the good news. Yes, I am critical, because I fear a little bit that EUR 25 million per year is not enough to achieve all the beautiful things that have been written down, such as more staff and rest and security for the staff. There will be an investigation into the responsible staffing to see if the standards we have agreed are right. You don't do that research for nothing. What if it shows that more staff needs to be deployed and that 25 million would not be enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u254	As-then we're not gonna answer questions in this Chamber. At least I'm not in on it. I want to look at the legitimate concerns that live with people. Are there not very complex inmates, who, for example, have a serious disorder, which you need to turn some more people against to ensure that it stays safe in the workplace? We've seen something about that on television lately. On the other hand, you could also differentiate, because there are perhaps also punishes who can go with a slightly lighter regime. The research that is ongoing focuses in particular on the possibilities for differentiation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u255	This is a little too easy. We know that, on average, the inmate population is getting heavier. It doesn't get much lighter on the other side. A lot of people have a disorder or addiction or have to deal with incredible social problems. On the contrary, it is very important to investigate how much staffing is responsible. If we want to take this seriously, we should not say in advance: in the end, there is only EUR 25 million per year available, and you will have to do so. Then we have a problem, because then eventually the money comes first and not the people and the security we want to do it for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u256	The ink from the covenant isn't dry yet. We have made very good agreements on this, including with the people who represent the workplace. The works council and the trade unions are satisfied with what is now on the table. Let us not say in advance that it is not enough money, but let us get to work on this. If you are talking about enough staff, the task at the moment is to ensure that the vacancies are properly filled. We need to see if we can work more with permanent workers, who pay to provide training, rather than temporary workers who are sometimes gone after a few months. Finding good staff to be able to spend at all the money we have at the moment is the most important task we are facing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u257	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u258	Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about TBs. I can understand that very well, even when we look at the very tragic incidents of recent times. I think we should be proud of our TBs system. That's good for society, because it's a tool that allows you to treat deranged delinquents and hold them for longer if necessary. But it's also good for the perpetrators and perpetrators, because they get the treatment that helps them. The recurrent rates of people who ultimately come out of TBs are significantly lower than the recurrent rates of the regular prison system. It is therefore important to hold on to that. It is therefore also important to look closely at the problem of the refusal of observers. They're people who don't cooperate in the investigation that the judge needs to be able to determine if there's a disorder. People cannot be forced to cooperate in their own convictions, but you can see if the conviction can be made less dependent on the cooperation of that suspect. That is why I am currently examining in full terms what measures can be taken, and what specific interventions there are. I would also like to mention the regulation of the refusal of observers in the Forensic Care Bill that is going to help with this. That will be dealt with in the First Chamber. A number of useful initiatives have also been launched. The Pieter Baan Centrum is interesting to have a look there if necessary now has a special department to encourage those refusing observants to cooperate. But I am also looking at possibilities which are outside the scope of legislation; I will certainly include Mr Van Oosten's suggestion and Mrs Kuiken's suggestion. I intend to send a letter to the Chamber in the first months of 2018. I will also take Mrs Van Toorenburg's suggestion to look again at the discussion that my predecessor, Mrs Teeven, had with the Chamber on that two-stage process.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u259	What are the first months of 2018?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u260	First quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u261	Okay. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u262	I would like to thank the Minister on behalf of my colleague Mr Van Oosten for this concrete commitment. I think it would be useful to forward to you the thinking that we have already done, including the legal objections that were raised at first sight, including those about Article 13, so that you can include them in the research you are going to do. But at least thank you for this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u263	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u264	I think you need to get to the next point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u265	Well, I still...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u266	Mrs Buitenweg has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u267	I'm done with TBs, because I wanted to go to the statute of limitations tables.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u268	Then Mrs. Buitenweg first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u269	Madam President, thank you, because I was not finished with TBs. I understood that there is a budget incentive to keep pace in TBs treatments, so the TBs clinic is reduced if the treatment lasts longer. Is that right? And isn't that a very perverse incentive? The minister himself was talking about people with major psychosocial problems. Wouldn't it be better if there were sufficient funds available to give the treatment that is needed? You don't want some kind of perverse stimulus built in so people can finish the treatment as soon as possible, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u270	That was my first reaction when I heard this. But I've gotten a lot of catching up to do by now. It is important to know that on an individual level, someone must always stay inside and that care must be continued if necessary. Then we look at the danger of recidivism. Why was this measure taken several years ago? We saw that the tbs duration was on the rise. In response, judges started to impose fewer TBs. This longer duration of tbs did not lead to even lower relapse rates. Then it was agreed with the sector: see if you can come to something so that a TBS treatment does not last longer than is strictly necessary, but of course as long as it is necessary. This has led to a change in development and, as far as we can see now, not to a deterioration in the rates of repetition. So that's the underlying idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u271	Anything from a turn of events? In fact, the objective was that the average treatment should last about eight years. The treatment time is now much lower: 7.2 years. That is therefore below the objective, and yet this measure remains in force. It's kind of what we do at the NS. You always get a fine when the trains are late too often, but a TB's is not a train, although it sometimes derails. What is the Minister going to do, now that the average treatment time has gone down, to ensure that we are not going to cut back in such a way that the treatments are under pressure? Can the Minister look at this again, especially since the average treatment time is shorter than he himself asked for?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u272	The Minister. A brief answer, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u273	I can do that. In all such mechanisms it is true: if it has worked, it has worked. And sometimes these kinds of incentives can also have perverse effects. We certainly do not want that with this target group. So I'd like to dive into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u274	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u275	Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Van Oosten asked me what I was like about abolishing the statute of limitations on penalties. It is important to say that the most serious penalties are no longer subject to a limitation period. Other crimes and offences are subject to limitation periods of execution, but they are actually getting longer and longer as the crime is more serious. It has been thought in the past: that is also important, because that gives an impetus to the services to ensure swift execution. But I fully agree with Mr Van Oosten that it should not be the case that criminals try to stay out of the hands of the police and then get over the limitation period and not get the punishment they deserve. That would also very much affect the sense of justice of many people. The question is, is this how it works? I'd like to dive into that. Around Christmas, I will give you an overview of the situation with regard to the enforcement of penalties. Then I would also like to zoom in a little bit more on that issue of the birthday period. I want to see how many cases are involved and what kind of target group it is. I am happy to accept Mr Van Oosten's suggestion. I shall come back to that in that letter. That is the conclusion of my second block on effective penalties. I would like to continue with justice and access to justice. There I see two very important challenges for the coming period: accessibility and relevance. Accessibility has everything to do with a legal system that people, regardless of their background or income, can use when needed. Many questions have been asked about the system of legal aid. This is, of course, an important instrument for access to justice, but there is a lot of discussion about it and it is in danger of getting stuck. Mr. Chairman. The coalition agreement gives a very clear mandate. The system of subsidised legal aid should be reviewed. We are shaping this review along the lines of the committees that have been there. I agree with Mr Grothuizen. He says: we do not have to organise additional committees or do research; there is already a great deal and now we have to see what we are going to do. So lines have been drawn up by previous committees. The task is also to fit in with the budgetary frameworks. In addition, no jurisdictions are excluded. That's the dot on the horizon. The aim is to provide a system within which, where necessary, high-quality legal aid is provided by the most appropriate legal aid provider. As far as I am concerned, we also assume that a new system, if we come to it, will be sustainable and that we will be able to make real progress in the coming years. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll be challenged. People ask: what does that look like? I have just sent a letter to the Chamber stating that I would like to discuss it with all those involved: the order, the Legal Assistance Council, the Legal Loket, the judiciary and also colleagues in the Cabinet. A large part of the cases for which legal aid is ultimately sought come from the government. I think that is an interesting point in the two committee reports. So I'm not going to lay down a blueprint and then ask the whole field what they think. I really want to work together and, on the basis of these principles, look at what a revised system might look like. Mr. Chairman. I am going from legal aid to the amendment that has been tabled. That is the Buitenweg amendment to item No. 25. I would advise against this in this context. In my view, it is not a question of more money but of a better system, regardless of the fact that the cover provided in this amendment is at the expense of the fight against crime. I don't think we all want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u276	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u277	I was done with the issue of legal aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u278	These are fine words about subsidised legal aid in itself, but if you are Minister for Legal Protection, I think you should also deserve that beautiful name. Since 2010, more than 20 austerity measures have been implemented on legal aid. Now we have the report of the Van der Meer Committee, which the cabinet itself asked for. That report says quite clearly: there is overdue maintenance, it no longer fits in, the quality is under heavy pressure and the fees are under heavy pressure. What is the justification for saying in advance that it must be within the budgetary framework and that there will be and should be cuts in access to justice for those who cannot afford a very expensive lawyer themselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u279	The Van der Meer report says: if you do it within the current framework, there are actually four flavors. He sketches four scenarios. One scenario is more money. There are three scenarios in which it can be done within the existing budgetary framework, but I do not think that any of the four scenarios will immediately be happy. So if we want to take a step forward now, we should not really ask what you should do within the framework of the current system, but how you need to adjust the system to make it better and how you will get a better system of legal aid with the money available for legal aid. That's actually the job I'm getting out of the coalition agreement for myself. Then I think it is very helpful to say that it has to be within the current budgetary framework, because otherwise I know one thing: then we are only going to talk about how much more money needs to be added. The Netherlands should not be ashamed of the amounts involved in the subsidised legal aid. The amount per capita is substantial, making us one of the leaders in Europe. I think we should be able to get it over with, but we should be able to do it in a different way than we are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u280	No, it's just the other way around. I'm not saying there's a lot of money in advance. The Minister says in advance that it must be done with less money. That's what happens. Yesterday there was another survey: 85% of social lawyers are very concerned about the future. This is not only about the fees, but also about the increased own contributions, which are only getting higher. If you are going to cut down on the only part of this portfolio where austerity increases inequality in the Netherlands, and if that is the objective in advance, we must be careful that this is not the Minister for Legal Protection but the Minister for Legal Insanity. You shouldn't want that. If you really want to improve the system, you have to let go of the austerity objective and dare to talk about the measures for a sustainable system.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u281	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u282	Mr Van Nispen repeats his beautiful one-liner of yesterday; so we know the SP. As Minister for Legal Protection, I really see this as one of my major tasks, especially to do justice to legal protection, but looking at the amounts involved in subsidised legal aid, I also think that the Netherlands should not be ashamed. With the money available for this purpose, we should be able to grow to another system. Then it is right to say that this has to be done within the budgetary framework, because if you talk to the sector and the social lawyer and do not provide any clarity about this, then the discussion is again about how much extra money needs to be added. I do not think that is constructive in this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u283	It's nice that the Minister sees this as one of his big assignments. I wholeheartedly agree with him. I do believe that this is the core of the next few years: how can we shape the system of legal aid? I understand by now that the association of social lawyers is willing to enter into the conversation. That's really good news. One element remains to be seen in the Minister's speech, namely specialization. In some areas of law, there is probably not very much to be achieved commercially. If you specialize in welfare, I think it's gonna be hard to build a commercial practice. Can the Minister promise that he will also have specific attention to that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u284	That can be very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u285	Yeah, and we're doing it very wide. So we're also looking at what needs to be done by lawyers and what might happen by others. Can you do something with pro bono? In the past, pro-Deowerk was also part of the training towards the law. There are several ways to look at this. As far as I am concerned, that playing field is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u286	Mrs Buitenweg, you want to clarify something about your amendment, I understand. Then you must mention exactly the piece number.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u287	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 25. The Minister dealt with this as if it were an amendment for more money for the Van der Meer Committee. I would have liked to have had 127 million, but this is very specific about ZSM, say 'as soon as possible' and so on, for quick justice. There's an investigation into that. That'll be done by the end of the year. Then the findings come up, and then there's no budget. So that is what this amendment is looking at. It is not the 127 million for the Van der Meer Committee which I would have liked to propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u288	You already said that. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u289	Then again, my point remains that we should not anticipate that investigation. And the second is where you get the cover. You are shooting a hole in a very important task: the fight against crime. I'd like to look at it when the report ends up on our desk, but I don't want to anticipate it now in financial terms, with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u290	The last topic, I think. Privacy. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u291	No, Mr President, I have a number of questions about what we are going to do about the renewal of justice. I was just saying something about accessibility. The other challenge is in relevance. Does justice contribute to troubleshooting? Is it more than just a judge? We then see that justice is sometimes far from people. I am enthusiastic, and fortunately the Council is also enthusiastic about the justice system, about the scope we want to provide for experiments on that front. Mrs. Van der Graaf asked: what are you going to do? We're talking about neighborhood judges and debt judges. We are now looking at what is already possible within the current laws and regulations. We can work on that very quickly, as far as I'm concerned. For some more far-reaching experiments, for which space should be provided in the law with an experimental determination, we will come out in mid-2018. Then a bill goes into consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u292	Mr Van Dam, this is the fifth interruption. I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u293	I wanted to ask a few questions about justice, but I wanted to do that when the Minister is done with this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u294	No, the minister's still at it. Mrs. Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u295	I would like to comment on the point that has just been addressed about, among other things, the neighborhood judge and the experiments. The experiments that are already under way indicate that there is already a need for an experimental assessment. The coalition agreement also talks about this. Can I understand the point that, if the experiments you provide for for the first half of next year require space within the legislation, you are willing to take that space and perhaps adapt the law at the beginning of the year to really give those experiments a good chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u296	Here too, the answer may be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u297	I think there's a lot that can be done within laws and regulations. If we have to write a law, I don't have it in the first half of 2018. It's still to be written. Then he goes into consultation. Then he goes to the Council of State, who has to find some of it. Well, you can count on him to look very closely at that, because this affects justice and thus the equality of law. So I cannot say that it is in the Chamber during the first half of the year. I can promise that we will consult it in mid-2018. As far as I'm concerned, we're not losing a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u298	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u299	I'm just gonna put this underneath this point. It's also about law and justice, for example, in divorce cases. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about this and Mrs Buitenweg also spoke about it. By the way, they were two different subjects. Mr Van der Staaij asked: what can the government do to prevent fighting divorces? An assignment is now under way by André Rouvoet. If it's okay, he'll come up with his advice in February 2018. Then I'll come to the room with it, too. He brought me up to speed this week. There are interesting things in that, for example, that may be embedded in the system that people face each other, as in some sort of tournament model, which may be prevented. I find that an interesting thought. So I will come back to that in a few months' time. Mrs Buitenweg drew attention to the specific case in which civil marriage was dissolved but there is still a religious marriage. That's kind of complicated, because the state isn't about religious marriages. The court made an interesting statement, which Mrs Buitenweg also referred to. The court states that if there is no cooperation from the partner, there may be an act of tort, with possible imposition of a penalty payment. I think it is important that the authorities that people are usually able to advise women on marriage and marriage, know that this case has been there and that they can take the way to court. So that's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u300	Mrs. Buitenweg, it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u301	My fourth. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u302	Yes, and Mr Van Ojik wants to be able to interrupt later. But he's not here yet, so you thought, "Now it's possible?"
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u303	I am counting on him coming, but this is my fourth interruption and I expect the Minister to be able to give me a very good answer. So it's well-spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u304	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u305	In the written reply to our proposal to lay down a little more in legal rules that do not cooperate in the dissolution of a marriage can be regarded as a tortious act, the Minister says that it goes too far to determine that there is always unlawfulness, because some religions almost exclude divorce and therefore cooperate is not a real possibility. But that is not an answer to the question, because if someone can't cooperate, it's hard to challenge him. That is not the question either. The question is whether one can still look at a rule whereby it can be seen as a tortious act if one does not cooperate. I'm just asking the Minister to look into the different options. I'd really like to think about that. It's a serious problem for a lot of women. Can't we do something more than just say it's not up to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u306	I'd like to dig in a little deeper. It was discussed yesterday in the debate. This is the current state of affairs. I think it offers opportunities for women if their husbands do not want to cooperate and there is a possibility to dissolve religious marriage. That's what the judge's ruling is about. But your question is whether that is sufficient. I could take a look at that. Then I'll send you a letter for the summer of 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u307	I'm very happy about that. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u308	That's it. Are you going to speed it up, Mr. Secretary? For there is another govern ment, which also has to deal with an important part of the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u309	Oh, yeah. I'm almost at the end of my speech. As far as the case law is concerned, the amendment to item No. 29 by Mr Van Dam is about the NVvR. I can leave the judgment to the Chamber on that. The amendment in part No. Unfortunately, I am not going to recommend 19 of Mr Van Nispen. Maybe he also welcomes the advice on the other amendment, because that is the same subject. Then there is the amendment by Mr Groothuizen/Kuiks on part No. 35 on mediation in criminal law. I can also pass judgment on that amendment to the Chamber. There was another amendment on the same subject, but perhaps Mrs Kuik is going to say something about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u310	No, finish your sentence first.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u311	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u312	No, Mrs. Chicken, I'd like the Minister to finish his sentence. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u313	My question would be whether Mrs Kuik could withdraw the amendment with my positive advice on the other amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u314	Mrs. Chicken, you're angry; I see it. But you have to come here and say it in the microphone, otherwise it doesn't count. I understand you wanted to help me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u315	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I always do. Thank you for the positive assessment of the previous amendment. That means I'm withdrawing the other amendment. I'm sorry about that, but we have to row with the belts we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u316	The Chicken c.s. amendment (Part No 24) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u317	On a point of order: as a co-signator of the amendment, I have a very brief comment. I am prepared to withdraw the amendment, but the Minister's written answer to the question was unclear. Can the money that could be left this year be taken to next year? Is a motion necessary for that or can the Minister simply say: yes, that can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u318	That answer may also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u319	That answer is in the short version: no. Perhaps I can explain that further. A motion doesn't help either. It just goes against the financial system we have. If a legal commitment has been made, you can make such an exception. But if there's an underspending somewhere, you can't spend it again the year after that. The Minister of Finance will see us coming if we allow it!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u320	The Chicken c.s. amendment in piece No. 24 has just been withdrawn, but I understand there's an objection, Mr. Van Nispen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u321	And that objection can easily be resolved. Last year, this Chamber passed far too late to spend 1.5 million on mediation in criminal law. Because it happened so late, there are a few tons left this year. That can bridge exactly the difference with the just withdrawn amendment for the EUR 1.5 million that was actually needed. If the Court says that EUR 1 million will be available next year, that difference can be bridged exactly. List the terms: ongoing process, cash system, etc. You can make it very technical. The Minister says it can't be done. It's a matter of not wanting to. The Minister can solve it by making that funding possible. It's about the same goal. It's not suddenly another purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u322	I see and understand Mr Van Nispen's point, but I cannot break iron with my hands. This is the financial system we know. When we come up with such a proposal, the Minister of Finance says: I know a few of them. I'm afraid I can't go along with the suggestion you're making.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u323	All right, but then we have a problem, because Mrs Kuik has withdrawn her amendment on the basis of your first answer. You'll have to talk to each other about how you deal with it. Maybe you'll come back to it later. Then it's parked for now. You were finishing up, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u324	I come to the amendment to item No. 18 by Mr Van Nispen, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Buitenweg. That's about the Foundation Disputes Committees Consumer Affairs. I'd advise against that. It is not that I am not enthusiastic about the committee, but it has really been said in the past that the market is going to take over at some point. Finally, I come to the privacy block. That is a very short block; I can reassure you. In my introduction I talked about...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u325	Before you proceed, Mr Van Nispen has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u326	The Minister is undoubtedly familiar with this ESC opinion. I think you should always take SER advice seriously. I'm also looking at the minister's neighbor. The ESC said quite clearly a few months ago that we should continue to finance this and that it is important for consumers. It is also very much in line with the coalition agreement. If you say that you want to promote out-of-court dispute resolution, you cannot ignore this. There are 27 legal committees and there is a European obligation. Then why destroy this beautiful, low-threshold alternative for consumers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u327	I don't want to kill it. That's not what's happening either. I'm gonna go talk to the foundation and see if it can be completely private. It is already organized to a large extent in private. I wouldn't find that very strange either, because it is about companies that deal with disputes informally and have a responsibility in my view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u328	It's not weird at all that the government contributes to dispute resolution. That is what we are doing with justice. And yes, business already pays a large part. The total amount involved is EUR 1.3 million. This is the third year in a row that the Minister wants to stop this subsidy without a substantive argument. There will be an evaluation next year. Let us then have the courage to discuss it to the bone, but now say: I will bridge it and we will come back to it next year. You can now see how things are going without a good discussion. We have to skip with all these interruptions. It's not a decent debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u329	That's not entirely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u330	You know what I mean. You have very little room to debate this. The subject justifies a separate debate. I would like to make the following point. If there is an evaluation next year, I think we should have the courage to discuss it with all the arguments and pros and cons. That is not the case with the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u331	Mr. Azarkan, do you have a brief addition to this? Then the Minister can respond to that in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u332	Support for the story of colleague Van Nispen. I would point out that this will also mean that part of the resolution will go through the justice system. That's just a more expensive variant. 80% of this is financed by industry and 20% we do. It acts as a hair-lemmer oil. It's extremely sensible. I also spoke with a number of people from the Disputes Committee. It's just so important that we keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u333	You all assume that the Disputes Committee will cease to exist if we do not continue with the subsidy. That is a small part of the total amount involved. I think the committee is a very good initiative, but I also believe that it can be carried privately. In other words, I stand by my advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u334	That's what I understand. Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u335	I would like to put one more question to the Minister on justice. He has told us about new initiatives that are going to take place there. But I have seen in the budget that the equity of the judiciary is at minus 30 million at the beginning of 2018. Is the Minister willing to send a letter to the Chamber to explain how he's gonna solve this? Above all, it is also a question of the independence of our justice system. If the judges always have to come to you and beg for money, that means something for the independence of justice. Would you be willing to write a further letter about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u336	Actually, I'm okay with that. We are talking about the budget today, but there is still a lot to be done in the case-law budget, with a number of substantial financial challenges in it. I think it can be arranged well for 2018, but after that we really have a number of complicated issues. So I'm coming with a letter to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u337	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, you do not have to include the word 'things'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u338	Then the final point. Privacy, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u339	Yes. In the meantime, I have a number of amended amendments under my nose. One is about the Disputes Commission. I think it would also be appropriate for this modified amendment. The other, in part No. 39, concerns Mrs Buitenweg's initiative. I'm afraid I'm gonna have to advise against this, too. Mr. Chairman. Then privacy. In my introduction, I said something about the protection of citizens by the State and the protection of citizens against the State. In privacy, those two actually come together. Sometimes citizens need to be protected from a rather intrusive or curious government. But more and more the same citizen is also seeking to protect his privacy with the government from, for example, his neighbor or an internet store, which knows more and more about him, us. Mr Verhoeven drew attention to the Personal Data Authority, which will play an increasingly important role, especially in the light of the General Data Protection Regulation which entered into force in May. This really is an improvement for the protection of personal data. Things do have a lot of feet in the dirt. This means that, as a government, but also a lot of companies, we will have to adapt a number of things. Then it is good that advice is given. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is now fully in preparation to also provide more and more for the advisory task. I think that's very important, too. A lot of extra money has gone to the Personal Data Authority, because it not only maintains but also informs. The VVD asked for attention to horizontal privacy, because there is also something about it in the coalition agreement. That also affects the point I was just talking about. With technological developments, this is becoming more urgent and relevant. I promise to come up with a vision document on this issue in spring 2018. Mr President, I can make you happy, I am through my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u340	That is what you thought, Mr Verhoeven has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u341	It would be a shame if we were to talk about privacy in such an important debate as this. So I'd like to ask another question about it. Everyone always thinks privacy is important when you ask for it, but at the moment when you are going to fill in the concept in concrete terms, you can see that it is often looked at very differently. Today in the debate, the CDA Group had a time of undermining when it said: we need to look creatively at the possibilities of meeting or not complying with certain privacy standards. The VVD has rightly entered the point of horizontal privacy. I am sometimes afraid that this will also reduce the importance of vertical privacy; it is therefore the government and large companies that are partly depriving citizens of their privacy. Is there a minister here who is going to be very keen on the wind to maintain privacy in the Netherlands? Because there are so many digital possibilities where it makes sense to take something away from that privacy and we need someone to look at it carefully. It is also covered by this minister's portfolio. Does he really want to do that? Or is it a bit of a part for this Minister that we do now and then, as it seems to be happening in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u342	The reason I made it a whole block is to show Mr Kees Verhoeven that I think it is very important. It was a short block, and that is because only two questions have been asked about it, but it has received the essence of a block. So in that sense, it's very important. I stand for it, too. I will say immediately that as a government we will always have to consider privacy and security. I think that a lot of people also understand very well that a government should have the opportunity to collect personal data, license plates and so on. My colleague is often very busy with it and then we discuss it when it comes to picking up criminals and offenders, combating terrorism and combating undermining. I think that the breach of that kind of violent crime may well be much greater than the breach of privacy in relation to a government that shares data.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u343	Agreed. It is often said to me: I do not think the privacy of a criminal is so important. It is, of course, about the privacy of innocent citizens in the Netherlands. The government does a lot of good things in the field of linking data files. Facebook and Google are very active in the commercial field. However, you can see that more and more things are happening, which means that something of privacy must just be handed over by citizens who are not aware of it. If there are things, powers or developments that harm the privacy and protection of personal data of Dutch citizens, is this minister the one who thinks the other way and sometimes says: ho, this goes too far, because privacy is a vital part of the rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u344	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u345	Actually, I missed the block of varia. So that's why I'm asking the following question, which is about the announced investigation into victims of sexual violence and sexual offences. It's a good thing this investigation is going to happen. However, that research is not quite as I would like it to be and is not exactly as my colleague Mr Buitenweg would like it to be. We are missing a number of things in it. The victims themselves will not be included in that investigation. We are talking about the treatment, but not about how it works nationwide. Can the Minister give us an insight into exactly how that investigation is going to take place? Do we have the opportunity to make some suggestions to ensure that it meets our wishes, but above all the wishes of the victims who have been sending us massive emails on this matter over the last few days?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u346	Do you mind if I come back to that in the second term? When it comes to sexual violence, that really is something we are working together in, and then we can have a little talk.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-30-tweedekamer-3.u347	Good. Thank you. Actually, I'd like to propose that we suspend for half an hour now. At a quarter to two, we'll vote. Then we have the arrangement of work and then I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security for his answers.
