ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u1	We'll continue with the first term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. We always speak behind this cathedral on behalf of our groups, and that is no different today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u3	Gently, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u4	But today's so good, Mr. Chairman? I am also speaking in particular on behalf of our group chairman, who I am replacing for illness. This morning he called me that he really isn't enough by voice. But if you hear his voice sound a bit in my text, that's true. We wish him well. I'm sure he's watching through the live stream. Can the Netherlands agree to the entry into force of the Association Treaty between Ukraine and the European Union, although it was rejected by a large majority of voters by referendum more than a year ago and most of the parties have promised that this Treaty, or at least in this form, will not enter into force because of that outcome? This is what we are holding today's final debate in the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At least that's what it says here, but now we're doing it in his absence. Fortunately, the Prime Minister is present. This shows that the government is taking this debate very seriously, with us, and I am pleased about that. It is indeed a strange figure: a treaty to which two Chambers have said yes in a large majority, but which subsequently met with a convincing no from the people. The representative and direct democracy clash here. In the First Chamber we realized that even before there was a Ukraine referendum. In the plenary discussion of the legislative proposal on the consultative referendum in April 2014, several spokesmen argued that the outcome of an advisory referendum would in practice be seen by many as a decisive statement by voters. It is not formally binding, but it is, in fact, urgent for government and parliament. I refer in particular to what was said about this in the debate when it was important, among others by Mr De Graaf of D66. That is why this First Chamber prefers a corrective referendum, or at least wanted to, in which it is clear what the meaning of the result is. But we now know since yesterday that the legislative proposal for a corrective referendum, which had already been approved by this Chamber at first reading, is in severe weather due to the retreating movements of the PvdA and GroenLinks. The initiators have drawn their hands from it and no longer wish to defend their own proposal. This is a unique experience in parliamentary history, but it is not a highlight for us. I shall return to the debate at that time on the current law. In order to prevent the outcome of an advisory referendum under all circumstances, regardless of the participation of the population, being decisive for government and parliament, the First Chamber decided to request the addition of a threshold of 30%. We remember the strong pleas for this, including, in particular, the PvdA Group. This demand was met through additional legislation. However, it was pointed out by the initiators of the legislative proposal that the inclusion of a turnout threshold could lead to a risk that the result of a referendum would shift more towards a binding result. In that view, they were supported by the Council of State, which considered that a turnout threshold would undermine the non-binding nature of the outcome in practice. Nevertheless, both Chambers considered that there should be a threshold for entry into the law. This Chamber, Madam President, knew exactly what she was doing. Article 3 of the law therefore now states that the result is valid only if the turnout is at least 30% of the total number of voters. Now that the turnout rate was achieved in the Ukraine referendum last year, it is difficult for this First Chamber to claim that this turnout was too low to be decisive for our decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u5	I've never been very good at law, not to say that this is another euphemism. We have a binding ruling and an advisory ruling. But what exactly is a decisive statement? How am I supposed to interpret that legally?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u6	I thank Mr Schaap for this question. The term "quantifying" is not in the law. I refer to the debate at the time in the First Chamber on the meaning of the Advisory referendum Act. As Mr Schaap also knows, the explanation given by parliamentarians in the parliamentary debate is also important when it comes to the interpretation of the law and the meaning of the law. It's a law on the advisory referendum. The referendum is advisory and not legally binding, in the sense that we are obliged to commit to that result. I give that to Mr Schaap. It has been said, especially with this threshold, that we will have to take it even more seriously than would otherwise have been the case. If the entry threshold is not reached, the law also states that the result is invalid. If the turnout threshold is reached, the result is valid and then you have to come from a very good house, if you want to put it next to you. In this sense, it is decisive, but more in a normative sense than in a formal legal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u7	For the record, the Council of State has said that this 30% threshold has an undermining effect on the advisory aspect. That's right; that's how it worked out. Mr Van Apeldoorn then says: 'I interpret this as a measure.' You could say that, to take that word over, the cabinet responded to the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u8	I do not entirely follow Mr Schaap's reasoning. That the outcome was decisive means that the government had to take it very seriously. In his perspective, the government has done so. In my speech, nothing has changed in any way and nothing has been done about the outcome. I'll deal with that in a moment. I didn't see that customization. What I have seen is a statement which is an appendix to the European Council's statements. But once again, in line with the opinion of the Council of State, it does mean that this consultative referendum, with the threshold of entry, is not mandatory, but more urgent than would otherwise have been the case, without the threshold of entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u9	Finally, Mr Schaap, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u10	I am very pleased with the explanation given here to the word'sized'. This means that the SP also recognises that this referendum is not binding and that you must therefore find the best way out of the outcome of this vote. That has indeed happened, but you can have a different opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u11	Mr Schaap and I do indeed disagree on that. The best way out wasn't found. But he is right: I am not going to say here that the consultative referendum is a corrective referendum. That would be wrong. As far as our group is concerned, this corrective referendum should come as soon as possible. That is not the case for the time being, but it is an advisory referendum that, with the threshold of turnout that has been reached, has even more power of expression than would otherwise have been the case. Then there is the question: how do you do justice to that result, where 60% of the population have made a clear "no" sound?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u12	I interrupt you, Mr Van Apeldoorn. Mr. Writer?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u13	In view of Mr Van Apeldoorn's last words, my question to him can be very brief. Is it true that this will remain decisive to make a difference between consultative, consultative and corrective? I got the impression that during the course of his speech he was trying to put it all together, namely that it should all be interpreted as correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u14	I do not think Mr Schrijver listened to me very well. I did not say that the referendum was correct. I just said that there was a lot of talk about it in this house. A majority voted in favour of that law. However, it was also said at the time: it is an advisory referendum. But what does that mean in practice? Well, that could be a little tricky. Then you have a ruling from the people and then you have to take it over, yes or no? Soon only 10% will come to the ballot box. Can you give enough meaning to a rash like that? That is what Mr Schrijver's group insisted on and said: no, it would be difficult. So let us build in a reasonable threshold of 30% and let us include in the law that the result will be valid. This has been done in addition. Then I say: if that valid result is then there, you also have to say clip-and-ready that that is the result. It is not binding, but that is the result, and something must then be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u15	May I ask all parties to be somewhat brief in their wordings, otherwise we will be here at 1:00 a.m. this evening. Mrs. Strik?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u16	I have a brief question, but first a proposal. Now that two spots have been opened for the corrective referendum, the SP may be able to join. Maybe D66 likes it. Mr Van Apeldoorn said that this is the result and something must be done about it. It's a little more urgent than if it were below 30%. But even if you take it very seriously, it can still mean that it doesn't mean you're taking over completely? Mr Van Apeldoorn pointed out in particular that the government had not done enough with it. But where is there room? So what is the band between not taking over and dealing with it in a sufficiently serious way, in something like ratification of the Treaty? What would you have thought was sufficient, without it having to lead to withdrawal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u17	I can answer Mrs Strik's first question briefly. I think the SP will be happy to take on that defence, but I am not about that; that lies with the House of Representatives. In the follow-up to my speech, perhaps you should listen to that first, I will say that the government has actually done nothing with it. Then Mrs Strik's question would have been sufficient. We can talk about that. I would say: given the clear "no" and the variety of reasons why people voted "no" - that was also the position of her party in the Lower House - a repeal law could be proposed. And I repeat the words of your spokesperson Grashoff of the GroenLinks Group in the House of Representatives, that proposing a repeal law is the first necessary step. Then, perhaps, the government would have been able to negotiate a different kind of association agreement, which, as far as we are concerned, might have been at the centre of the fight against corruption. And where it was perhaps said: we are temporizing it; the treaty is not coming now, but in a number of years. Then there would have been several options.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u18	I notice it was either you don't do anything with it or you move it in. It's very difficult to stay in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u19	Mrs Strik herself has said this before, and that is also how the referendum law makes it. There are two choices: a withdrawal law or an approval law. We then clearly choose the first. That's clear. I will continue my speech. Article 3 of the law therefore now states that the result is valid only if the turnout is at least 30% of the total number of voters. Or did I mention this already? I'm just gonna say it again. Now that the turnout rate has been achieved, it is difficult for this Chamber to claim that this turnout was too low to be decisive for our decision. I had already said that, because that was what Mr Schaap was calling for. Doubting the relevance of the outcome of the referendum on the basis of the actual turnout will be even more difficult due to the finding of the National Referendum Research that at a much higher turnout the result would not have been significantly different. In short, what the voters said on 6 April 2016 was a proper reflection of the view of our entire electoral population. After the First Chamber decided to draw a line under which the result of a referendum would not be valid, and after there actually proved to be ample support for holding a referendum on the Association Treaty, most parties stated that this is a crucial point, so I say to Mrs Strike that the outcome would be decisive for them if the lower limit were reached. My party, the SP, did so, like for example GroenLinks and the PvdA, before the referendum on the Association Treaty between Ukraine and the European Union took place. Other parties, including D66 and the Christian Union, did so shortly after the outcome showed that a large majority of voters had said no to that treaty. The CDA, in both Chambers opposed the introduction of the Advisory referendum Act, stressed the middle part of its name by its position. If you are already holding a referendum, you cannot ignore its outcome. If there is a referendum, you have to be fair, and if the result is disappointing, you have to take your loss. So clearly said CDA foreman Sybrand Buma at his congress in November last year in Veghel. These positions allowed citizens to have the confidence that their judgment of the Convention would have a major impact on its entry into force or not. In the Lower House, CDA, SP, GroenLinks, D66, ChristenUnie and PVV asked the government to withdraw the approval law; parties that represent a large majority in this Chamber, and indeed do so on the other side after the last elections. The Prime Minister himself acknowledged that the outcome of the referendum made it impossible for the Treaty to enter into force without delay, but early and was given time and space on the other side to seek a solution. That would be difficult, was made clear by the use of indications such as 'goat pad' and'mouse hole'. Both are examples of ways through which man usually cannot move without putting himself in danger. But our prime minister can do a lot. Eight months after the referendum, the Prime Minister told Parliament that he had found his goat path, and at the end of it, at a European Council in December 2016, he had managed to formulate a 'legally binding declaration', which would do justice both to the wishes of Parliament and to those of the electorate. However, following the examination of that interpretative statement, two points stand out. Firstly, anyone who knows anything about international treaty law says that our Prime Minister is wrong. There is no legally binding declaration within the meaning of the Viennese Treaty, for the simple reason that one contracting partner, Ukraine, is in no way committed to the interpretation of the Association Agreement written by the other contracting party........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Also, statements made in the press by President Poroshenko of Ukraine do nothing about that. Comparisons with other statements cited by the Prime Minister turned out to be flawed. They are characterized by the fact that all partners are legally committed to the interpretation of the Convention. I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Secondly, the content of the declaration so acclaimed by the Prime Minister does not change tittel or jota in the treaty rejected by the people. The declaration mainly explains what is not in the Treaty. The Association Treaty does not say anything about future Ukrainian membership of the EU, does not say anything about a collective EU security guarantee to Ukraine, does not say anything about Ukrainians' work permits in the EU and does not say anything about additional financial obligations of EU Member States towards Ukraine. The fact that the declaration on which the Treaty does not say anything makes the statement as a whole disappointing also makes it meaningless. Those who take note of the opinion of the Council's lawyer of the European Council must come to the same conclusion. And anyone who passes the advice of the Council of State knows that the Prime Minister is fooling us all. He has been given a cloth for bleeding from his colleagues in the European Council and nothing else. It is not for nothing that the Prime Minister's statement that she was dragged away from the gates of hell at the December European Council did not lead to any serious parliamentary discussion in any other EU Member State. In other countries, the declaration is appreciated: an insignificant annex, a diplomatic thing for the Dutch Prime Minister, who may wear it as a pubesque to some parties, to hide a possible political twist behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u20	I think that Mr Van Apeldoorn is beginning to propagate in very strong statements like 'brainless', 'no telling', 'nothing' and 'it does not mean anything legally'. I think the President would like us not to repeat our exchange of views this afternoon, but perhaps it would be good to ask Mr Van Apeldoorn if he knows what date the Council's lawyer's opinion is on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u21	I cannot give the exact date to Mr Schrijver. He means the advice of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u22	No, I mean the Council attorney's advice that I have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u23	Oh, from the European Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u24	Yes. This is from 12 December. The decision was therefore taken on 15 December. People then commented...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u25	It was about the concept, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u26	Excuse me, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Don't talk to each other like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u27	The Council attorney then commented on the draft decision as it also took place on 15 or 16 December. There is indeed an interesting paragraph 5. Moreover, the Council's attorney says that it certainly has legal value and must be taken into account in the whole of the interpretation. However, paragraph 5 states that it is clear that its provisions cannot be an interpretative instrument in the sense that it is binding on Ukraine unless Ukraine declares its acceptance of the decision. On 15 or 16 December, three or four days after the Council attorney's opinion, President Poroshenko made that statement. I admit, as is the case with Mrs Strik, that you can still have a debate on the degree of commitment. But if the President welcomes it, when he speaks as Head of State, when he says that it is a necessary step in the process of concluding the Association Agreement, and if the Council of State also says that that joint decision is a very important element in the correct interpretation of the Association Agreement within the meaning of Article 31 (2) (b) of the Treaty of Accession, all of which is stated in the opinion of the Council of State, which has been adopted by the Government, then the terms used by you are a bummer and a bummer and that it does not mean anything, perhaps a bit exaggerated. Then I'll bring in your own council attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u28	Mr President, with your permission, it is not my Council lawyer. But I think that the Council's lawyer has been very clear in his opinion, namely that it is not legally binding on Ukraine. In my view, Mr Schrijver does not dispute that either; he merely says that Mr Poroshenko's statements indicate a certain direction. My position is that it was not and was not legally binding. I think the Council of State has been very clear about this. I believe that international treaty law is very clear about that. I do not have the documents with me now, but there has also been a report from the United Nations International Law Commission on the so-called interpretative statement. It is quite clear that an interpretative declaration is not legally binding unless the other party commits itself to it. That was not the case, and the rest of my speech will show that the content of the statement is also quite different from whether it is legally binding or not, very limited or actually meaningless. Hence my choice of words that I still fully support. I understand that this will not be Mr Schrijver's words, but that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u29	No, but that's your right. However, perhaps it is good to realise that the interpretation of a treaty is not just about the literal wording, but also about the history of creation, the context, the object, the purpose, the additional agreements and so on. The Council of State is right to say that the conclusion of a treaty is actually a process. Of course, the drafting of a text is the main element of it, but there are many other factors around it. We have seen this recently in the EU-Canada Convention. This means that all this must be taken into account, and that a great deal of legal significance can certainly be attributed to this decision of the European Union, because it has been taken unanimously by the 28 Member States. Then it was embraced in my words by the President of Ukraine because he says he welcomes it and says he sees it as a necessary element in the process of concluding this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u30	I would like to leave the final interpretation to Mr Schrijver. Legislation must indeed be interpreted and the context is relevant; I agree with him. But that Mr Poroshenko, recognizing the political reality that the declaration was necessary to get the Dutch Government on board and then the Dutch Parliament, which embraced it, I really do dispute. That would certainly not be my interpretation. If he had embraced it, he could have signed it. Then the point remains: I shall go back to it in the course of my speech: if we look at the content of the declaration, it only contains what is not in the Treaty. Then there is the question of how to respond to the concerns of Dutch voters. The National Referendum Research shows that most Dutch people do not see anything in an upcoming EU membership of Ukraine. However, Ukraine is and will remain fully entitled to apply for membership. This statement doesn't change that. Anyone following the Ukrainian media knows with me that President Poroshenko is looking forward to our decision, that he is linking it to the forthcoming visa liberalisation and that he is telling his people that his country is now meeting the Copenhagen criteria. And when they are mentioned, we all see the hint of a future EU application from Ukraine. The fact that the declaration does not say anything about a collective security guarantee for Ukraine does not alter at all the provisions of Article 10 of the Convention on close cooperation in conflict prevention and crisis management and does not affect the agreement in the Convention on close cooperation between Ukraine and the European Defence Agency. The fact that the declaration "explains" that the Treaty does not say anything about the employment of Ukrainians in the European Union does not alter the fact that the Treaty does not impose any obstacles to the influx of Ukrainian workers into the European Union. According to Polish Prime Minister Szydlo, there are already over a million Ukrainians in her country. She calls them refugees but most of them fill the gaps struck by the massive exodus of Polish workers to other EU Member States, including the Netherlands. The Ukrainian authorities like to see their workers leave: fewer mouths to feed, more hard currency in the country. It is not a lack of training but of perspective in their chaotic and civil war-ridden country. That brain drain is causing enormous damage to the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u31	I accept the dramatic impact of the text as it is said, but can Mr Van Apeldoorn maintain with dry eyes that there is a civil war in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u32	I do not know what definition of 'civil war' Mr Schaap uses, but I would like to ask him if he knows how many deaths have been caused by a conflict taking place within Ukraine's borders, where the warring parties are to a large extent Ukrainians. In the definition of "civil war" I use, that's a civil war. If it were about a few deaths instead of 10,000 deaths, you could say that they are skirmishes, riots or violent acts, but if it extends over a period of years, with thousands and thousands of deaths on both sides, then I call it a civil war, and many with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u33	I do not believe that there is a civil war in the annexation of Crimea. That was just a raid on Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u34	I'm not referring to that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u35	So that was an act of war on Russia's part. Look at what's fighting in the Donbas area. There, for example, Chechen troops and so on. There are also Russian troops and Buk missiles and so on. I'm sorry, but this has been an outside robbery for a large part. It may take place within Ukrainian borders, but that does not make it a civil war. To a large extent, it's just a war of a foreign state that invaded that country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u36	Mr Schaap and I look at this history differently and have a different interpretation of the facts, in order to put it that way. When you look at the facts, you can see that in Donbas, in the eastern part of Ukraine, there are a lot of separatists fighting. That has been the case from the start. It is also a fact that Russia has involved itself in this. That does not alter the fact that there are separatists there and that there is a population there, which is also the victim of this war, including the Ukrainian army and the bombing of villages there, and that there is a conflict in which some of the Ukrainian people who have previously rejected the association treaty have taken up arms against Kiev. Russia's support for this is of no consequence. I would like to ask Mr Schaap: is there a civil war in Syria? I'd say yes, obviously. The fact that Russia is interfering, like the US and the coalition that is fighting against IS, does not change that either. The fact that civil war intervenes from outside does not alter the fact that it is a civil war. It's not a war started by Russia with an invasion of the Russian army. That is simply a distortion of the facts and of history.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u37	Finally, Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u38	The people of Donbas did not comment on the association agreement. Parliament did that. Where all these separatists come from is another question, but that's just outside this case. The fact that Russia has intervened widely there makes it much different, or at least much more than just a civil war.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u39	In that last remark I do not hear a question. I've come to a different conclusion. I will continue my speech. The forthcoming visa liberalisation will only further encourage the exodus of workers, I predict. On one point, the interpretative statement clearly contradicts the text and the context of the Treaty. While the fight against corruption in the Treaty is mentioned only as one of the many points of attention of the Treaty in Article 22 (2) (d) of the Treaty, the Prime Minister claims that this declaration has now made the fight against corruption a key issue of the Association Treaty. However, the main objectives of the Convention are set out in Article 1 of the Convention. It regulates the essentials and does not mention the fight against corruption. As long as there is no signature of the President of Ukraine under the statement which contradicts the text, his country cannot be bound by it either. We would like to hear from the Minister and the Prime Minister whether they can confirm this. Last year's National Referendum Research showed clearly that the main reason for voters to say no to the Association Treaty was the fear that Ukraine is too corrupt to participate in such a far-reaching association agreement. The fact that in the Treaty the fight against corruption is by-product rather than by-product only increased that fear and played a leading role in the creation of the broad no on 6 April last year, according to the National Referenceum Research. If the government had been able to convince the other treaty partners, including Ukraine, that at least on this point the Association Agreement deserved a clear adjustment in view of the outcome in the Netherlands, then perhaps the Prime Minister could have argued with some justification that he had found the mouse hole. Now there are only mice in the prime minister's head. Meanwhile, endemic corruption continues in the country with which we are going to conclude the most far-reaching association agreement ever if it is up to the government. Ukraine is still the most corrupt country in Europe. According to almost three quarters of the population there, corruption has not been reduced in the last four years. Only one in eight Ukrainians thinks that President Poroshenko and his government are really interested in tackling it. In fact, half of the citizens questioned believe that the President himself is involved in this corruption. They were shocked by the revelations in the Panama Papers about the financial antics of their president in faraway tax havens as well as in Russia, the country from which, according to the president, all the misery comes from his country. The citizens of his country were shocked again last autumn when it became known how much illegal self-enrichment and extravagant lifestyle have become characteristic of the legislative, judicial and executive power in Ukraine. The electronic statements of more than 100,000 directors, representatives of the people, judges and prosecutors showed how those who should trust the country in a future, for themselves only rely on their own future, by acquiring as much property as possible: agricultural land and office buildings, businesses and church buildings, luxury cars, jewellery, weapons and watch collections, and above all as much cash as possible, and then not Ukrainian grivna, but dollars and euros. The 24 members of the Ukrainian cabinet have accumulated nearly 7 million euros in cash in their homes. Take Prime Minister Groysman. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Die heeft 1,2 miljoen dollar en €460.000 thuis in zijn kluis liggen, zegt hij.]] And take Justice Minister Petrenko. He's got a million dollars in the bank and half a million dollars in cash in the house. His reason? The untrustworthy banking system of his country. The 450 members of the Verkhovna Rada, the Ukrainian parliament, together declare that they have more than 482 million dollars in financial assets, roughly one million per man or woman. Of these, on average, a tonne of cash foreign currency is at home in the vault. Do I reveal here today all kinds of secrets that others can't know about? On the contrary. It's all public information we get in and out of Ukraine. Mr Kox has been able to visit the country several times over the last five years for his work in the Council of Europe, the last time at the beginning of this year. The same information also emerges in discussions with members of the parliament and the Ukrainian Government and with representatives of non-governmental organisations and non-parliamentary movements, and it becomes clear how much the scourge of corruption still plagues the young country.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u40	I would like to have a little more clarity from Mr Van Apeldoorn, which is the exact reason for a vote against, because I have such a feeling that he would vote against the Treaty with Ukraine. Last time, the SP voted against it. He's putting corruption at the center of attention. At that time, however, the SP voted in favour of the association agreement with Moldova. You can read exactly the same reports about this; that the citizens are tired of corruption and that it is very difficult to tackle it. What exactly is the distinguishing criterion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u41	I would like to thank Mrs Strik for this question. I would like to stress that we are talking today about how we deal with the outcome of the referendum, so I am happy to deal with that now. This is sufficient reason for us to vote against this law, because we would like to respect the result of the referendum. I have said this from the beginning, and we are sticking to it, unlike some other political parties. Apart from the referendum that had yet to be held and which we did not know at the time that it would be held, we were at that time opposed to this treaty for various reasons. Corruption is an element in this; an important element, but certainly not the only one. Mrs Strik refers to Moldova. We have also made a geopolitical assessment. That is a very different consideration from the geopolitical balance of some parties here. We also wanted to look at the consequences of tying Ukraine to the EU or moving Ukraine into the EU's sphere of influence. What are the geopolitical consequences of this? What are the consequences for relations with Russia? Is that wise or not? That has been another element. We've had several considerations. I would stress that the association agreement with Ukraine, when it comes to trade liberalisation and the adoption of a large part of the acquis, as Mrs Faber also pointed out, is far more important than the association agreement to which Mrs Strik refers. I will continue my speech. Our Prime Minister and his government have, of course, been well aware of this disturbing data from Ukraine. Nevertheless, he wants to anchor our country and the other Member States of the European Union with this most far-reaching association agreement ever. According to our Prime Minister, the Association Treaty is more than Dutch interest. He thinks it is a geopolitical necessity to link Ukraine to us, apparently in spite of everything. Does that not indicate that the whole association agreement has changed in nature in recent years? It has become a political treaty which Ukraine must bring out of the Russian and into the European sphere of influence from an essentially economic treaty, already conceived under the regime of the later deported President Yanukovych.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u42	I'm listening handcuffed. Mr Van Apeldoorn says that this is the most far-reaching association agreement the European Union has ever concluded. Apparently, the SP did some research on that. I'd like to compliment her on that. Now there are a lot of association agreements. This recalls a very fine statement by the first President of the European Commission, Walter Hallstein. He said association treaties exist in many kinds and sizes. They can almost amount to membership, minus 1%, but they can also not be much more than a trade or cooperation agreement plus 1%. According to the SP, this treaty is high on the Hallstein scale, if I may call it that. Is that so? Exactly what does that prove? We have clearly stated that there is nothing in it about future membership. That is what the Association Agreement with Turkey says. Is your claim, undoubtedly based on SP research, that this is the most far-reaching association agreement the European Union has ever concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u43	I thank Mr Schrijver for this question. I think that after this debate we may have to put the scientific comparative study of the SP next to that of the PvdA, but I would point out that this is not so much our interpretation as that of many other relevant actors, including leading politicians who have concluded the treaty. I would point out that the comprehensive economic agreement is an element in this treaty. It goes far beyond just a trade agreement, also in the economic sense. In a way, this treaty with Ukraine is a kind of mini-CETA and it also goes far beyond other association agreements as a trade treaty. There is a political component and a component of military cooperation on top of that, so in that sense it is indeed far-reaching.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u44	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I would like to agree with Mr Van Apeldoorn and I think we both welcome that. This must not only be a trade and investment agreement, but it must also focus on capacity building, on cooperation on the rule of law and education, on separation of the three powers in Ukraine, in order to combat corruption, but that does not make it the most far-reaching association agreement. I am not pretending at all that the Labour Party has carried out scientific research on this; neither am I. But I can read a text of a treaty and then I know that the provisions of the association agreement with Turkey are very high on the Hallstein scale, that is to say, almost a front portal for membership, while here it is clear, thanks to this additional declaration, that this is absolutely not the intention. This is simply a continuation of the Eastern Partnership and the European Union's neighbourhood policy programmes, with slightly more intensive and institutionalised mechanisms. Fortunately, there are elements of development cooperation and state-of-the-art cooperation, because then you can stand up for the issues that Mr Van Apeldoorn and my group will certainly bind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u45	Thank you for this question. I agree that this last point binds us, but I do not think it is right to conclude that we both welcome this far-reaching agreement. I think it has something to do with how you want to weigh certain elements of such an association agreement. In the case of Turkey, there is a prospect of EU membership, although in practice this is far from being achieved and probably never will be achieved, or at least not in the foreseeable future. That was agreed with Turkey at an early stage. If you look at the content of the association agreement and what Turkey is obliged to adopt European legislation, for example on the internal market, then that goes further in the case of Ukraine. We have raised many questions about this. We'll come back to this one more time. I will continue my speech. Mr. Chairman. Where has the interest of the Ukrainian people, who have been given the democratic, economic, social and moral right to vote for years? According to a poll published at the end of last year, only 3% of the population believe that the situation in the country has improved. This poll confirms that no Ukrainian politician or political institution can count on the confidence of citizens. For our group, it was clear that Ukraine, neither the Netherlands nor the European Union, is at present in need of such intensive relations, as defined in the first seven articles of the Treaty: promoting economic integration in and political association with the European Union, including progressive convergence in foreign and security policy, including the common foreign and security policy. This treaty brings Ukraine into the sphere of influence of the European Union and thus reinforces the contradictions between Ukraine and Russia and those between the EU and Russia. The Treaty offers profit opportunities to some European multinationals and Ukrainian oligarchs, that is for sure, but under the present circumstances it does not bring significant benefits and many disadvantages to the Ukrainian population. It will therefore be necessary to put things in order in Ukraine first, so at least the foundations of the democratic rule of law should be in place before further association with the EU should be considered. Today, however, it is no longer a question of whether the treaty is good or not. We have had that debate and the future will teach who was right. The central question now for us here is and will remain: can a treaty rejected by the people by consultative referendum still be put into effect by government and parliament? Our answer is a clear no. Firstly, because we ourselves, as the First Chamber, deliberately added a threshold to the original initiative law in the consultative referendum, which does not make the result of the referendum mandatory but urgent. Secondly, because the voters knew well why they said no: they did not trust Ukraine enough to associate ourselves with it far and wide politically and to integrate each other's economies. They think the country is too corrupt. Thirdly, because last year a large number of parties explicitly stated that they would follow the outcome of the referendum and, in any case, that they would not agree to the entry into force of a treaty that was completely unchanged. Fourthly, because, first of all, the legally binding declaration made by the government is not legally binding on the main partner, Ukraine, and furthermore leaves the association agreement completely unchanged and therefore cannot meet the major objections of the majority of voters. My group is always looking forward to the reaction of the government, but we are also very interested in the final positions of the political groups in this Chamber. We know that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has made a compelling appeal to its congress not to be forced to vote for this entry into force, because that would be completely contrary to what has been promised so far in Parliament and the public debate. A minister's statement that congresses do not buy fighter jets was rightly found by many to be arrogant at the time. Congresses represent party democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u46	I think it is well known that the SP has different views on party democracy than GroenLinks, of which it is noted. I don't mind that either, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u47	I don't know what Mrs. Strik is insinuating.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u48	Mr Van Apeldoorn, let Mrs Strik speak out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u49	In the beginning, Mr Van Apeldoorn said, and even now, he says, that it must be primarily decisive and urgent and that it is indeed not binding. At the same time, I hear him say: we can only take voters seriously if we withdraw them. That means de facto that he says: we only respect the electorate if we treat it as a binding referendum. Then I do not quite understand why he will eventually end up with a de facto correctative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u50	I think Mrs Strik has now asked several questions. Maybe the first one was even a comment. The party democracy in the SP is very lively, I can tell her. The statements of congresses are also binding on us. The only question is that it is also stated in my speech: do you have to change the rules of the game in between and force groups to make a 180 degree turn in the meantime? That's a lot like changing the rules during the game. Again, I did not claim that this consultative referendum is binding. I did say that with other groups and other parties, including your party in the House of Representatives, the SP has said in advance that if the threshold is reached, we will have to respect, follow and also see it as leading. This has been said by a majority of the parties in the present House of Representatives. Therefore, those parties also voted in favour of a repeal law. Only, at that time, there was no majority for it across the street. So one can deal with the consultative referendum as one likes. The VVD has been clear about it from the beginning. He said that we do not want that referendum, we are not in favour of a referendum, we are not in favour of a referendum on this treaty, and we will not be bound by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u51	Would you keep it a little short?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u52	Other parties have said that, and that is the crucial point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u53	I'd like to respond to that. I hope this isn't going to be a good-bye game.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u54	This has been changed extensively a few times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u55	But it is not true that GroenLinks would have said before the referendum: we are taking over that result. I'd like to put that right here for a while. I would like to add the following question, if I may, Mr President. The SP has always been against this treaty. So that is a different position from that of other parties, who have different views on the substance. It is, of course, a hypothetical question, but say that the outcome had been yes, so that the majority had voted in favour of the Treaty. What would the SP Group have done?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u56	On that first question, I believe that GroenLinks said before the referendum that the treaty could not be approved in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u57	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u58	Let's not have that discussion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u59	We were and are opposed to this treaty, but we are opposed to the view that if a majority of the population had decided otherwise, we would have to deal with an advisory referendum whose outcome should be taken seriously as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u60	Finally, Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u61	But then you should have voted in favour, because there seems to be nothing in between for or against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u62	You will continue your speech, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u63	But then this debate would not have been on the agenda and there would have been another situation. Mr. Chairman. We know that it was D66 who, together with GroenLinks and the PvdA, gave us the consultative referendum through an initiative legislative proposal. We remember the thoughtful and passionate defence of its democratic importance by its authors and their endorsement by the D66 and PvdA groups. And we remember what it was like, in particular, these groups that wanted to strengthen the legislative proposal by introducing a threshold for entry. A wish to which this Chamber responded, as well as the House of Representatives. And we remember how, after the referendum, D66 shared with pain in the heart, those were the words of Kees Verhoeven, out of respect for the democratic process, for the repeal of the approval law, and how the PvdA even before the referendum took place, stated that rejection should never lead to unchanged passage of the association treaty. And we know that the CDA, in the public and parliamentary debate on the need to do justice to the outcome of the referendum, has been unambiguous and straightforward. The referendum should not have been there, but it should have been followed after it was there, so as not to discredit politics any further. CDA foreman Sybrand Buma said it very clearly last year in Veghel to his party: Ignoring the outcome by politics will lead to even more loss of confidence in politics and even more cynicism towards The Hague and Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u64	I would like to refer to the question that has just been asked by the honourable Member, Mr Strik, which is, in fact, your own position in this matter. I come to that because you also refer to what D66 said after the outcome of the referendum. In fact, we proposed that the government send a repeal law to Parliament, but with the remark that we felt that we should enter into direct consultation with the neekamp and with the 27 other Member States of the European Union on how to proceed now, and then in a positive and constructive sense; then perhaps it was not directly about the treaty as it was then but to a large extent about the issues and the direction indicated in the agreement. As far as we are concerned, therefore, the referendum was not an end, in the sense of: we have now decided, this is it, next subject. No, it was a starting point for further developing our relationship with Ukraine and its concrete implementation through new agreements. Not ratifying it and not taking another step towards a solution has never been the right approach for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u65	That's a remark, that's not a question. Then what exactly is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u66	I felt an unstoppable need to respond to your words regarding D66. I am not asking you to react there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u67	I have quoted the statements of your fellow party members. I think they were very clear. We need to come up with a repeal law. If the result had been a yes, then it would have just applied that the law had already been passed. It is not a referendum in advance that requires us to vote in a certain way. That's not what we're here for. We are not in favour of a referendum in which we ask the people in advance what to vote. No, we have a representative democracy here in which we finally decide. And that decision can then be corrected. If that had not been the case, we would not have had this whole debate. Then we wouldn't have had to get ahead of ourselves. It would simply have been the votes in the Second and First Chambers that had already taken place. I just quoted Mr Buma's words about the loss of confidence in politics and even more cynicism as a result of ignoring this clear result. I think Mr Buma is right about that. I hope, therefore, that this Chamber will finally say that the voters have used up the new legal right that we have given them. In doing so, they have given us no compelling, but certainly a very urgent, advice not to go through with this association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Now that we have deliberately supplemented parliamentary democracy with a form of direct democracy, the consultative referendum, and now that the government has failed to bring about any adaptation of the Treaty rejected by referendum, we must do justice to the electorate's ruling and do not support the present law of entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u68	Mr. Chairman. It is not nice to be associated with the most corrupt country in Europe: Ukraine. The Dutch voters do not want to be associated with Ukraine by an overwhelming majority. The Dutch political parties have indicated by majority that they do not want to be associated with Ukraine for various reasons, ranging from respect for the election results to substantive criticism of the Association Treaty. The Council of State has strongly criticized the Prime Minister's package leaflet at least. If the parties who rejected the Association Treaty in the House of Representatives do so today, or actually next week, here too, we can put a big line in this House of reflection under the enormous error that the Treaty speaks of and perhaps even more in the so-called legally binding declaration that the Prime Minister found in his search for goat paths and mouse holes. In addition, there is an increase in the purchase that the Dutch electorate will feel greatly deceived when the politics misses out on all the beautiful promises about respecting the referendum result. What gives the Prime Minister the feeling that the unprecedented objections, unprecedented in the most literal sense of the word, against the Treaty of the Dutch people, could be part of a so-called renegotiation, in which, incidentally, the Treaty did not change? Has the Prime Minister investigated the motives of the no-voters, or has he thought that he could understand about what they have against them, and has he used the renegotiation in his own right? Well, at least he's taken a lot of time. A few months before the Ukraine referendum, lobbyists in The Hague seemed to have joined forces for a massive yes campaign. You could say: of almost Russian proportions. No-voters were put away as people who think with their lower abdomen, without arguments. Everything was pulled out to give the electorate the feeling that there could be only one decent answer to the referendum question, and that was a full yes, as was the case earlier in the referendum on the European Constitution, where there was also a threat of disaster or even war as 'the light that would go out'. In this treaty we see popular wisdom 'the money that is stupid makes right what is crooked' once again become reality. This treaty is not about geopolitics, other than an important part of this debate might suggest, but about trade. At least Commissioner Frans Timmermans said that in a fit of disarming honesty. There's money to be made. The fact that trade is with the most corrupt country on the European continent, a country that produces with child labour and barbaric animal suffering of colossal proportions, was clearly not an obstacle. The problem is that Ukraine has structural human rights, animal welfare and environmental rules in its wake in the production of the goods that we are so keen to see included in that trade agreement. By allowing Ukrainian products, Europe is therefore partly guilty of violating human and animal rights. Unfortunately, we have not seen anything about this in the re-negotiation of the Prime Minister. This immediately raises the question of how the Prime Minister weighed these priorities. Maybe he can explain that further. It is interesting to know why human and animal rights have not been part of that renegotiation or appear to have made up for it and in any case have not been reflected in the final outcome. About one in twenty children aged between 5 and 14 are involved in child labour in Ukraine. They are mainly active in agriculture and mining. The Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland even warned companies on its website. Especially if you are working in the agricultural sector or in the construction industry in Ukraine, the chances of a production company using child labour are considerable, according to the Dutch government. This warning disappeared in the run-up to the referendum. The basic rights of adult workers are also extremely poor. In this way, trade union leaders may be intimidated by Ukrainian security services. When a protest for better labour rights to the taste of the Ukrainian government took a little too long, a campaign of terror tried to stop the protests. By the way, the minimum wage in the country has been converted to about €50 per month. In addition, the Association Agreement offers every opportunity to import large-scale animal suffering to the EU. Mega stables with 20,000 pigs are no exception in Ukraine. Ukrainian eggs come from immense battery cages that have been banned in the EU for years, and not just across the border with the EU were built with the support of Dutch banks and Dutch credit insurers. Everything is for sale for money!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u69	Can Mr Koffeman give an example? Can he tell us where that industry is? I'd like to hear a name and a name. It is now a series of accusations and expressions of how disastrous it is there. But give us an example!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u70	I'll be there in four sentences. So if you'll excuse me, it'll be your turn in a minute. MHP, Ukraine's largest poultry farm, slaughters 332 million puff chicken every year and exports more than 140,000 tonnes of chicken meat per year. And as dessert, MHP also produces foie gras, liver of geese or ducks that are forced fed and thus a sick liver fat is put on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u71	Well, I'm gonna take this up with you. Mr Koffeman talks about MHP. I assume he means the company in Vinnycha.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u72	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u73	The company MHP is the company located in the vicinity of the city of Vinnycha.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u74	I haven't been there, but I've read enough about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u75	You're quoting it. Well, then you should know what company it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u76	Yeah, sure. There can be no misunderstanding about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u77	Gentlemen, please go through the chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u78	That company produces even more. If Mr Koffeman had gone into this matter a little bit, it would have been clear to him that the standards under which that company produces are so high that even Dutch companies do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u79	That's an interesting assumption. In fact, there is no longer any control of animal welfare requirements in Ukraine. The fact that you think this is done under high standards is not validated in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u80	I'd better be honest with you. I happen to know that company. I've been there, too. It is built entirely with Dutch technology, on a large scale and on a level that the Netherlands does not even reach. There is careful monitoring of the entire production chain in that company because of the export, because almost everything that is produced there crosses the border. In short, it is an example of a company that is not even in the hands of an oligarch, but just of a young Ukrainian who has started for himself. It is now being served by Mr Koffeman as some shady producer of puffy chickens, while it can hardly be done better than it does there. I can go on and on about how well that company works. But I just wanted to say that there are facts and empty accusations as nicely as each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u81	There has been a very broad report in the Dutch press about MHP and the conditions under which it is produced. I could provide you with articles from the NRC and 925. Those articles were not very praiseworthy about the way in which they were produced. I can tell you that your interpretation of heaven for chickens and my interpretation of hell for chickens are indeed quite apart. But it is quite clear that in my criticism of MHP and poultry production in Ukraine I was shoulder to shoulder with Dutch poultry farmers. It doesn't happen often. They complained about the conditions under which Ukraine was produced, either under standards or, rather, a lack of standards that they could not compete with. So if you're in trouble, I'd say talk to your partymate Gert-Jan Oplaat. He didn't have a good word for it. There's no point in playing about that now. Talk to your partymate about it. He didn't feel anything like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u82	Finally, Mr Schaap, we are not talking about chicken production in Ukraine. We're talking about the bill in front of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u83	I am only concerned with one thing: if something goes very well in that country, it will be served immediately under the heading 'it is in Ukraine, so it will be corrupt; it will all be miserable' and so on. There's a lot going on in that country too. The fact that the Netherlands is so afraid of the industry set up there is simply due to fears of competition. In this sense, I do not support Mr Oplaat's views at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u84	That's perfectly clear. That means, indeed, that I am in the exceptional circumstance that I am now an ally of Mr Oplaat in my rejection of the Ukrainian chicken industry and that you disagree with your party colleague on this. I don't think I can get in the middle of that. I was talking about foie gras. This barbaric practice has already been banned in 23 EU countries. It will be difficult to move the other five EU countries to stop foie gras if at the same time foie gras can enter our eastern border cheaply and uncontrolledly. The association agreement thus inhibits all European progress in animal welfare and reverses the clock for all that the EU has invented improvements for humans and animals. Not only farm animals, but also European farmers themselves are the victims of this treaty. They do work with existing minimum rules, for example in the Netherlands, and face unfair competition from Ukrainian products that have been made with only one focus: as low a price as possible, at the expense of anything. Last year, the Ukrainian pop chicken factory MHP landed in Veenendaal. If this association agreement continues, it will not end there. NRC opened yesterday with the headline "The Hague embraces protectionism." If this treaty is still approved, contrary to all the wishes of the citizens and all the promises made by political parties, then the barrier is in place. This Treaty opens the gates of Europe to developments that no one in Europe needs, with the exception of a single entrepreneur who can derive material benefit from the Treaty. I've been talking about the position of animals in Ukrainian megasthals. Outside agriculture, too, Ukraine is not so close to animal welfare. Fighting between dogs and chained bears and hunting trips for Western hunters who want and are allowed to shoot at anything that moves does not contribute to the feeling that we should want to be associated with a country that has very different views on ethics than we have in our parts and has been working on for decades. Proponents argue that the Association Treaty would oblige Ukraine to improve certain laws and production standards in the long term. However, that is highly questionable. Even existing rules are hardly controlled and enforced in Ukraine. The reason for this is the prevailing corruption. Transparency International repeatedly proclaimed Ukraine the most corrupt country on the European continent. In such countries, legally binding statements, as the Prime Minister pulled out of the top hat, make little impression. This is especially true when such a legally binding declaration has been achieved unilaterally, without any agreement from the Ukrainian side and without any sanction or guarantee of compliance. Can the Prime Minister indicate what his optimistic view of the legally binding declaration is based on? The Ukrainian Minister of Agriculture, Oleksiy Pavlenko, already indicated that animal welfare is not an issue for the country. No issue. So we do not have to expect much progress in this area. Why did the Prime Minister leave this issue entirely out of the renegotiation, when many voters had indicated that it was an important subject? In the field of human rights too, the unprecedented corruption will take a very long time for real progress to be made. Until then, we just eat cheap eggs from laying batteries and children's potted onions, whose tears should jump into your eyes even before you clean them. The stoic way in which the Yakamp is going through the rowing and glazing of the Association Treaty, against the wishes of the electorate and against the promises of the major political parties, calls for a clear 'no' of everyone who is best placed to have children, animals, nature, the environment and the security of life of European farmers. This association treaty must be stopped, and will be stopped when parties in this house fulfil their previous promise and respect the wish of the Dutch electorate. If they do not, the gap between the electorate and the elected will become even wider. Those are not my words, but Mr Buma's. The aversion to politics as a whole and the disgust against the EU as an undemocratic body will become even greater. The Animal Party will do what it has promised its voters, what it has fought for at the time of the referendum and what may be expected of it. We will follow the no vote of the citizens who rejected this treaty by 61% and do not agree with the association agreement. The cabinet could only have done one thing after the result of the referendum: send a repeal law to the Chamber immediately. The fact that this has not been done and that a strategy of "time heals all wounds" has been chosen, a long delay combined with an eye-catching lobby, could make the outcome of the vote in this House unconfirmed, even though he should not have been on the basis of the referendum and the solemn promises made by the political leaders. The statement of CDA leader Sybrand Buma cannot be repeated often enough: ignoring the outcome of the referendum by politics will lead to even more loss of confidence in politics and even more cynicism towards The Hague and Brussels. D66 leader Pechtold added that he is not blind to the Prime Minister's arguments, but he wanted to see proof of Rutte's agreements with the European Heads of Government on the amendments to the Treaty. "For so far this has not become clear to me," said Mr Pechtold. He was right about that, because there have been no changes to the Treaty. In particular, that was not a reason for D66 to reject it. Jesse Klaver also judged the Prime Minister's heart cry as having little effect at the time. He said: I do not yet see sufficient reasons to ignore the opinion of the electorate. Less than a year ago, he felt that there was little chance that GroenLinks would change its position. Nothing is as changeable as a position. If all this was not cauldron music, but genuinely common assessments of the political situation in relation to the wishes of the citizens, then it is no different whether the association agreement will be voted down next week. If not, the Dutch citizen will have a lot to think about and will review his position vis-à-vis political parties that do not keep a word.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u85	Mr Koffeman, please stand still for a moment, because Mr Schrijver has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u86	I had Mr Koffeman speak for a moment, but I would like to ask him two questions at the end of his speech. Unfortunately, we have not yet received his text, but if I remember correctly, he said at the start of his speech that the Council of State has unprecedented criticism of the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u87	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u88	I took the advice of the Council of State for a moment, but I have the feeling that we have different versions. I have the version of 18 January 2017. In this, the Council of State merely states that the explanatory memorandum should be supplemented by an explanation of the legal significance of the EU decision. After four steps, the Council of State concludes by giving consideration to the government to send the proposal of law to the Lower House of State General. How does Mr Koffeman come to the conclusion that there is unprecedented harsh criticism? I have a second question. Shall I agree with that, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u89	I'd do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u90	I remember too vividly Mrs Stienen and Mr Backer remember that I also think that we have had an interesting exchange about our reading skills with regard to the always beautiful leaf Farm. I got the impression that Mr Koffeman quoted that again when he quoted the Ukrainian Minister's statement that the promotion of animal welfare is not an issue. In that interview, the Ukrainian Minister said: we must now tackle so much that this issue is not a primary issue in the coming years, but the entry into force of the Convention and the fact that Europe will look over our shoulders and the fact that we will have to comply with all kinds of quality and health requirements will improve animal welfare. We established that at the time, because we took the interview with us for a while. Mr Koffeman said that the Ukrainian minister said it was not an issue. That reminded me very much of our previous fascinating exchange of views. But "no issue" is quite different from "no primary issue at the moment."
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u91	Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u92	So two questions have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u93	Oh, yeah. I'll start with the first question. Mr Schrijver's first question is how I came to the conclusion that the Council of State was not very pleased with the legally binding declaration. I didn't come up with that conclusion myself. I could read that conclusion back in all the newspapers that wrote about it. The qualifications varied from "Council of State finds legally binding declaration too vague" to "Council of State cracks legally binding declaration." It seems that one can think differently about that. The fact that Mr Schrijver made it clear that the Council of State was enthusiastic about it is in any case a different observation than most newspaper journalists have made. That is my answer to the first question. Perhaps, in response to the second question, I should like to refer to Mr Schrijver's earlier comment on the legally binding statement that the President of Ukraine had also said that it was a very nice legally binding statement and that he embraced it. If the President of the most corrupt country in Europe, who is also called a lot in one breath with corruption, says nothing more than 'this is a wonderful legally binding declaration; we can do something with it', it does not give me the full confidence that this would create some kind of legal bond. The fact that it gives Mr.Writer the utmost confidence says something about his expectations, but not about mine. We can differ in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u94	I think we should end this debate. Mr Koffeman puts all kinds of words in my mouth, as the Council of State is enthusiastic. I didn't say that. The Council of State notes very neutrally that the explanatory memorandum needs to be supplemented, but also recommends that the bill is ready to be sent to the House of Representatives. For example, I have certainly not said all the things he is now putting in my mouth with regard to President Poroshenko. I said that President Poroshenko welcomed the statement by the 28 EU countries and that a necessary step was taken in the process of concluding this treaty. Nothing more and nothing less. The qualifications you now give are yours, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u95	We can read that again in the Acts. In any event, what you have said has been related to the legal commitment of the declaration. My position is that when the President of the most corrupt country in the continent of Europe says 'I welcome this', that does not add or cancel the legally binding nature of that declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u96	Has the second question been answered? I understand that's the case. Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Prime Minister. I note that he has asked me if he can be excused when he has finished his part of the answer, because there are other matters that require his attention. Do I say that neatly, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u97	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for that. Also for giving the word. Thanks to all parties for their first-term contribution. I propose that I address myself to a question about the referendum law and the questions that have been asked about the declaration itself, the decision of the European Heads of State or Government. Mr Koenders will then answer the questions relating to, for example, the international context, the Ruttedoctrine.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The context in which this debate is taking place is well known, which has also been discussed at length here this afternoon, namely that a referendum has taken place. The government was then confronted with the outcome and sought to find a way out in which both the no-vote and the European unity towards Russia, also in relation to Ukraine, were promoted as much as possible. I very much agreed with what Mr Knapen said about the responsibility of a Member State to go to great lengths to guard that unity, especially in an unstable geopolitical environment. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will look into this in a moment. Against this background, Mr Knapen asked a question about the referendum law. It's true that parties think differently about that. The law, I note, provides for an evaluation. The plan is to involve the experience of this referendum. It is true that the parties that form the present cabinet are known to think differently about the instrument referendum, hence I was not given to "all out" about my views on it. I understand what Mr Knapen is saying, but I cannot, of course, go too far along with those reflections on the basis of my responsibility for the whole team. However, I can say that it seems sensible to me that, also in the light of the history of this referendum law, that evaluation is being carried out very well. I also hear what Mr Knapen says about international treaties. I would, however, like to make the point politically that it is perfectly conceivable to make an exception to international conventions, so that they can no longer be included. It could be. You could take a majority political decision that referenda on international treaties are no longer possible. I say immediately that in a political sense that also means that if you ever wanted to get rid of this law, you would have given away an important instrument if you had made this exception. That consideration must therefore be made again. Now, however, I am going a little further in the area of political parties, and from my current position, of course, that is less desirable. Many parties have asked questions about the legal form chosen. The spokesmen of the Labour Party, GroenLinks, the SP and others asked why an intergovernmental decision was taken by the 28 Heads of Government. No decision has been taken by the European Council. The most simple reason for this is, of course, that the European Council is not a party to the association agreement. The countries are the parties to this. So what we did was let the 28 members of the European Council who were together in the framework of the European Council take a decision. But they have indeed taken that decision as a group of 28 Heads of State or Government. Moreover, the conclusions of that European Council refer to the agreement of the 28 Heads of State or Government meeting within the European Council. In this sense, we believe that this does not lead to a legally weaker position either. We believe that, precisely because the European Council itself is not a party to the association agreement, this will lead to a strengthened legal position. The question that was then raised, of course, is what the European Commission actually thinks. The Commission is not, strictly speaking, a party to the association agreement either. It does, of course, have an important task in its implementation. Nevertheless, in a press statement on 15 December, the Commission said to the European Council, after the Council had considered it, that the Commission would like that solution. The Commission further noted that this solution enables the Union to honour its commitments with partner Ukraine. In the Commission's view, this is a geopolitical responsibility. The Commission has therefore embraced the results. Then, of course, there is the role of Ukraine. It was discussed at length this afternoon. Why not also make Ukraine part of this decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u98	Maybe it's a small legal point, but I'm still asking a question about clearing it up. The European Commission or the European Council cannot, of course, be party to a treaty as such. They are the main bodies of the European Union. We are talking here about a treaty that is concluded between the 28 EU Member States and the European Union and Ukraine on the one hand. That is also the title of the bill. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u99	I understand that it is legal that the European Council is not a legal party to this association agreement. I understand that from the legal explanations I have received. I have also understood that in abundance the European Council has embraced the decision. Because the conclusions of the European Council, in the context of which this discussion took place, refer to the decision. In that sense, we have the best of both worlds. But I am now entering into a discussion with a recognised expert in the field of international law, so I am now through all my arguments and he has, I fear, a whole series of others. So I'm gonna lose this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u100	If the Prime Minister acknowledges that the European Union as such, as a legal person...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u101	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u102	... and if international organization is also party and will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u103	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u104	...in this treaty, we have no difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u105	I'll say yes immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u106	That sounds very legally strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u107	No, of course, that's obvious. I had come to the question about the role of Ukraine. What obviously plays a role here is the fact that the issue that this decision is about is not a mission to Ukraine or something that binds Ukraine, simply because it is about how the 28 countries of the European Union deal with their way of implementing the association agreement. That is why we have never sought Ukraine's support for this. We have kept in touch with Ukraine. I've kept in touch with the president myself on a regular basis. Bert Koenders, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, has kept in regular contact with his colleague in Ukraine. We have, among other things, kept updating what we were doing at international meetings where this opportunity occurred. This is in order to prevent Ukraine from being said: although it is not strictly speaking about us, although it is about how the European Union deals with its part of the treaty provisions, and although it is not about Ukraine, it obviously has an effect on us. It is about how the 28 countries express their obligations in the association agreement. Then, indeed, the President of Ukraine expressed his agreement. That was also important, of course, because it makes it clear that Ukraine is not going to oppose this. On the contrary, the President has also underlined the logical meaning and necessity of this in his press statement. Then, of course, you can have a whole discussion about whether or not that binds Ukraine. Because our position has always been, and is, that Ukraine does not need to be bound because it is not about the Ukrainian obligations under the Association Agreement but about how the 28 Member States deal with their obligations, we do not go down the slippery path, the smooth ice, the question of whether or not that press statement is enough. The Council of State has said that this is indeed a commitment for Ukraine. So be it, but we don't really want to go on that slippery path. I listened very carefully to the Labour Party, which said: look at some previous chords, to Giscard d'Estaing, 1974 and Norway, 1919.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u108	1919?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u109	Sure, yeah, 1919, Norway. We all know it! Of course Giscard d'Estaing...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u110	And so is Mrs. Strik! Mrs. Strik has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u111	The Prime Minister says that Ukraine should not have been underneath because it is a question of the 28 Member States giving the same statement, the same interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u112	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u113	Still, I wonder if that's right. If, for example, the Court has jurisdiction to interpret the Convention, only the Member States of the European Union explain it in a certain way and Ukraine is not a part of it, the Court cannot therefore find that all parties bound by the Convention had the same intention. So Ukraine can still appeal to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u114	No, we don't think so. The decision concerns EU membership. That's not what Ukraine's about. Ukraine can apply for it but is not about granting it. The military cooperation that this decision is about is really about matters that affect only the 28. The financial support in this case is a matter of how the 28 deal with their treaty obligations arising from the association agreement, and so on. The position of employees is how we treat our interpretation as 28. So we have always chosen the position that this is about how the 28 do it. It helps that Ukraine declares that it does not object. That is, of course, very relevant. That is why I was pleased with President Poroshenko's statement on the 16th, but we never sought a legal connection with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u115	I can imagine that, because everything in the declaration does not say anything about the treaty itself, but that it mainly says what is not in it. Then you do not need Ukraine, because it cannot explain it. At the same time, it shows that legal binding is not really necessary, because it merely states what is not in it. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u116	I don't entirely agree with that. Part of it is, of course, because in the run-up to the referendum, a lot of people have said very often that this is indeed an adaptation to membership. There's more to it than that. In this sense, it was good to say once again that the association agreement does not now oblige us to join or should be regarded as a stepping stone to membership. In that sense, therefore, Mrs Strik is right and it is actually a re-affirmation of what was already intended. But if you look at the Council's legal advice and the objectives of this document, how do we interpret as 28 our obligations arising from the association agreement in a legally binding manner? It's more than just determining what's not in it. When it comes to combating corruption, for example, it is a confirmation that the association agreement offers opportunities to impose sanctions, or, worst of all, to end the association agreement if there is not sufficient progress in the fight against corruption. That is one of the so-called positives that emerge from this decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u117	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u118	That is indeed purely a confirmation of what was already in the treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u119	In essence, yes, but with the question of how the 28 then legally relate to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u120	I was a little confused by what the Prime Minister just said in reply to Mr Strik. When it comes to the legal status of the declaration and Ukraine's involvement in it, I think it is one of two. Or the Prime Minister says: it is important that Ukraine has accepted it. He referred to the press release. Or he says: no, that is not important in the end, because it is really just about how the 28 interpret the treaty. That's two different things. If the latter is the case, the conclusion is clear: this does not bind Ukraine in any way and does not seem to bind Ukraine either. Then the question is indeed what this statement actually represents, except that the 28 have stated that what was not in the Treaty is still not in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u121	These two aren't either of them. There is a third: you want to make this decision legally binding on how the 28 deal with their obligations in a legally binding manner on a number of relevant files arising from the Convention. Then you do not want Ukraine to say: oh, if that is your interpretation of your part of the obligations, we are no longer in favour of the association agreement. That is why it was important that I kept in touch or that we kept in touch with the authorities in Kiev, in Ukraine, to ensure that this document did not attack anyone there. Next, I was pleased to be surprised by the statement made by the President. The debate then arises as to whether there is a legal obligation in itself. I do not think that this debate is so relevant, because then you will come up with a smooth interpretation: is that sufficiently legally binding or not? From the PvdA, of course, things were said about this. In the end, we do not consider that relevant, because this decision is about how the 28 Member States deal with their obligations under the Treaty. We cannot impose these on Ukraine from this decision. That is not necessary, because it is about elements that respect us and not Ukraine. Ukraine does notice its effects, but in a way that is not contrary to the Treaty texts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u122	I note that the Prime Minister considers it irrelevant whether Ukraine is legally bound by this declaration or not. I think that is a remarkable statement, but I would like to ask him what this means in concrete terms for Ukraine, for example the point that this should not be an adaptation to EU membership. As I have said before, nothing will prevent Ukraine from making such an application. This statement does not change whether or not President Poroshenko has embraced this guy in Mr Schrijver's words. The statement does not change the fact that Ukraine can simply do so and that this application must then be dealt with. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u123	This decision concerns the association agreement. The decision states that the Association Agreement does not now or in future oblige Member States to give membership of the European Union or to regard it as a possible remedy. That's what it says. This association agreement does not, therefore, oblige us to do so either now or in the future. The whole sentence I have just spoken must therefore be read. What Ukraine is doing and how Europe will deal with it is verse two, but this association agreement is not in itself a pre-requisite or an obligation to adjust to membership. That is relevant, because it has been claimed in the debate, not only by a lot of politicians in the Netherlands but also internationally. The European Commission and other very senior leaders in Europe have said that you can actually see this as an opacity. It has never been that, but it is clear that the statements made by a number of Europe's leading leaders, including those from the Commission and the Council, were also unjustified. This has been confirmed once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u124	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u125	Yes, finally, on this point. I agree with the Prime Minister that there is no obligation under the agreement, but the statement at issue does not oblige the 28 to refuse it, if such a request comes from Ukraine. In the debate, Mr Ortoli said that the statement would state that, if such a request were to be made, the 28 would be obliged to say: no, I am sorry, given this statement, we cannot go along with it and we must reject it immediately. Isn't it true that he was wrong about that and that that is not in the statement? There is therefore no obligation to be uncomfortable with such a request if it is made in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u126	If Ukraine or one of the European Member States say that this association agreement is an obligation to give a perspective on membership, then it has been stipulated here once again that this association agreement in no way imposes an obligation on Europe to offer this prospect of membership, although many leading politicians in the Netherlands and in Europe have said so, even in the run-up to the Dutch referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u127	There's something I don't quite understand. The Prime Minister is trying to convince the Chamber with man and power that this is not a prelude to EU membership. That is also true; there is no promise in the association agreement that EU membership can be obtained. It's a preparation, though. In the meantime, however, Mr Poroshenko continues to scream in the wings: Ukraine is becoming a member of the European Union. How does the Prime Minister see that? Does he think Mr. Poroshenko is just screaming? Does he think there's some truth in it? Or does he renounce those statements made by Mr Poroshenko?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u128	Let me just quote what Mrs Faber's political leader said in the run-up to the referendum. He made it clear that this type of association agreement would lead to membership. This was true not only for him, but also for the foreman of the Socialist Party, Mr Roemer, in an interview with Nieuwsuur on 21 March. I am not talking about a number of leading people from the European Commission and the European Council. So it has been said in many places that this association agreement means that it is a step in the right direction. Now we agree that this isn't there. There is nowhere in the association agreement that this requires membership, now or in the future. But if so many people claim it, there is indeed a risk. We all know how that works, including in national and international law. Part of the entire interpretation of pieces is not only the piece itself, but also the entire legal history. A great risk is gradually emerging, namely that this can be interpreted as an addition. Now it is legally binding by the 28: no, it is not. I think that is worth a lot and that also reassures Mr Wilders. Then he can sleep well, too. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u129	I do not get an answer to my question as to how the Prime Minister sees the statements made by Mr Poroshenko, who keeps shouting: we are becoming a member of the European Union. Does he distance himself from that? Does the Prime Minister say, "He's only talking a little bit out of his neck"? How does he see this? I didn't get an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u130	Freedom of expression applies in the Netherlands and also in Ukraine, but the question that is relevant and raised here is whether the Association Agreement imposes obligations on Europe and the Member States to offer Ukraine the prospect of membership now or in the future. The answer is no. This has been said by all kinds of people, and the situation is likely to arise that this is, as it were, an accepted interpretation of the association agreement. We considered it important, as part of answering the many grievances expressed in the referendum campaign, to explicitly highlight that this is not the case. That has happened now, and I think that is a gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u131	Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u132	I wanted to say this, Madam President: for the last time. I'll try again. Does the Prime Minister renounce Mr Poroshenko's statements?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u133	Mr Poroshenko has freedom of speech. I don't want anyone who says anything right away... I don't even go after Mr Wilders every time he yells. I've said before that I'm not gonna respond to every piece of red meat. Anyone can scream whatever they want. Next, what is relevant is the legal position of Europe. Europe has no obligation to give Ukraine the prospect of membership. I am against this myself; the Dutch Government is against it. We are opposed to Ukraine's membership of the European Union for all kinds of reasons. So we are not going to facilitate that at all. We're not gonna make that possible. In Europe at the moment nobody is talking about the prospect of membership for Ukraine. But here the question was relevant as to whether, given all these statements, an implicit membership perspective had gradually emerged for Ukraine. Among other things, Mr Wilders made those remarks. I thought it was important that he too should find peace in this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u134	One more time, Mrs Faber, and then it's ho at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u135	Yes, I understand, Madam President, but I am somewhat challenged by the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u136	That's not my intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u137	The Prime Minister says that Ukraine's admission to the European Union is not being discussed at all at the moment, but in the meantime a resolution of the European EPP Group on Article 49 has been adopted. This is simply an opportunity for European membership. So the Prime Minister cannot claim that it is not being discussed. It is being discussed, because even a resolution has been adopted by the most powerful European group in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u138	The problem is that the European Parliament, in the absence of any issues on which it is concerned, adopts resolutions on matters that are not covered. We can see that in more parliaments, but fortunately not in the Netherlands. That is why it is so good that the tasks are well invested in Europe. Those who are concerned have thus made it clear in writing and legally binding that this association agreement is not a prelude to membership. There were also questions about the additional declaration at ratification under Article 10 of the Labour Party, Christian Union and GroenLinks. What is at issue here is, of course, that this association agreement does not create any obligation for the Kingdom to participate in military cooperation. As a contracting party, the Netherlands, with Article 10 towards the other contracting parties and Ukraine in particular, sets out how the Netherlands intends to deal with it, also in the light of the decision of the Heads of State or Government on military cooperation. That's one. So you're sending a clear signal. In the end, this can also have a legal significance, because you can never know whether the way in which decisions are taken in Europe can change in the future or whether, for example, military cooperation could now or in the future be made possible by qualified majority voting. If that were the case, at least the Netherlands has already made a commitment that it does not participate. That seems relevant to me, because this was one of the major concerns that emerged in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u139	I had asked whether that also means that we are bound by it ourselves. Because in a few years' time, imagine saying that we would like to participate in military cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u140	Yes, we can, of course, withdraw it. The Netherlands can revoke that. We are sovereign in that. But now it is perfectly clear how we stand in that position until we withdraw it. Mrs Strik had indeed asked that question and it has now been answered. Thank you! She was just ahead of me. Then I come to the question of the state of play of the provisional application. This has previously been addressed in the explanatory memorandum to the Act of Approval and in several letters of Parliament. Council decisions specify which parts of the Association Agreement with Ukraine will be applied provisionally. Titles IV, V and VI shall apply to Articles 25 to 459 and the associated protocols and annexes shall, to a large extent, fall within the exclusive competence of the European Union. Thus, although the vast majority of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement is known as the EU-only settlement so to be considered in the jargon, it is not possible to translate all of this one-on-one. The best thing would be to refer to the explanatory memorandum of the 2015 bill. There is a list of exactly what is being applied for the time being. Then I come to the question of whether the Netherlands should ratify the association agreement again if the UK were to resign. The answer is no, because then the association agreement will simply remain in place. I have answered Mrs Strik's question on membership in the course of the interrupting debates. Mrs Strik said that there are very different conditions for membership. I've just been discussing the whole issue of adaptation to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u141	I'm gonna go check on the Brexit. If the British fall out of the treaty, we have a treaty change. This has also been specified by the Foreign Minister in the reply. There's been an amendment to the treaty. If there is an amendment to the Convention, no matter what that amendment is, it must be ratified again. If the British fall out of the EU and therefore out of the treaty, then it must be ratified again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u142	No, then everything just stays in place. It would change if parties that remain members of the European Union decided to deal with the association agreement in a different way. The departure of the United Kingdom does not lead to the question of re-ratification of the Association Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u143	But then the Prime Minister says indirectly that the Foreign Minister has misinformed us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u144	That is never the case, because the Foreign Minister always points out the right thing. The situation here is, I am sure, that he has also wanted to say that the association agreement simply remains in place when the United Kingdom leaves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u145	One more time, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u146	I must say that we have that in black and white. Then there is a difference in the response of the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister. There's just a difference. So what one of them tells you isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u147	Well, this is right. I know that the Foreign Minister has a lot of debates. What he says there, he always says on my behalf. I can't exactly go back on every statement he made or interpret it. But he agrees, I just heard him say. I repeat that here for the Acts. I think I have answered the questions that have been asked about 'legally binding', the question of why Ukraine should or should not be part of and also the various questions on the advice of the Council's legal adviser. What remains are all questions about the international geopolitical situation and the questions of, among others, the VVD and the SGP on a number of specific issues. I would politely suggest that you give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to do so. Then I will leave your room to defy myself with another political dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u148	Thank you, but Mr Koffeman has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u149	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u150	There's nothing to be afraid of. I asked a number of times about the Prime Minister's considerations in the re-negotiation when he began to weigh up the Dutch electorate's objections with the other Heads of Government. I can't help but notice that he didn't come back to that. I do not know whether this was the case during the negotiations. How did the Prime Minister implement this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u151	It's very simple. All kinds of tests have been done. I believe that Mr Roemer, the SP, has also referred to investigations that have been carried out in the run-up to the referendum. Let me, however, take a look at this. I had to answer the question with Bert Koenders and the cabinet how we interpret the results. Of course, that's always subjective. Then you look at what has been dominant in the social debate in the run-up to the referendum. There were a few cases. For example, political leaders Roemer and Wilders were visible when it came to EU membership. I have here all the quotes of what they have said about this in all kinds of television and radio programmes. In addition, it was about military assistance. The same political foreman but also many others have said a great deal about this, in all kinds of places. Financial support for Ukraine was also a major issue, which was highlighted in a number of TV and radio debates. There was also the issue of corruption in Ukraine. This is precisely where we wanted to establish what the agreement was about. In a number of cases, the issues were not covered by the agreement. In this case, it was precisely the question of what the agreement was about and the question of how we could further strengthen this point. Of course, all of these things came from the discussion. I also had that discussion with the House of Representatives. Of course, it is always an interpretation, but that is what the law forces us to do. The law says that the cabinet should reconsider after an advisory referendum. Then it is the question on which the cabinet is going to do so. I shared very openly with the Chamber, also in a letter at the beginning of November, which elements we wanted to negotiate. This has also been the subject of a debate in the Chamber. This debate has also taken place in the light of the outcome of the European Council and, of course, in the examination of the legislative proposal. That is, of course, also the issue here, in the Senate, because the bill has now passed the House of Representatives. That's why it's now in the First Chamber. So I get the question. This is the answer, which is also contained in the explanatory memorandum. These were the dominant themes that emerged in the referendum campaign. The puff chicken was less dominant in this, so we didn't take it. That's actually the short summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u152	Then the Prime Minister did not pay very much attention to the campaign and to the granting of subsidies for the campaign. A dominant part of the campaign was about puff chicken and related subjects. The Prime Minister says that it was not such a dominant theme in the campaign, but that is a very easy interpretation, especially if you assume that the voter could only say yes or no and thus weigh the intensity of the campaign. The Prime Minister obviously overlooked that this issue was one of the dominant themes in the campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u153	Now Mr Koffeman buries the whole principle of the referendum. I agree with him too, politically speaking, but not on behalf of the entire cabinet. In his speech, Mr Knapen referred very eloquencely to the fact that a referendum always leads to a simple yes or no. In a very pluralistic society like the Dutch one tries to find a middle ground between political positions on the basis of extensive debate, but that is not possible, because it ultimately amounts to a simple yes or no. I am not saying that the population is unable to make that assessment, but we do not have the instruments. If I knew there was a village square where 17 million people could go, or 12 million over 18 years, we would make all the decisions there. We have, of course, introduced representative democracy, because it is simply impossible to stand with 12 million people in a square. Mr Koffeman has therefore skilfully undermined the whole principle of the referendum. I also agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u154	Once again, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u155	Thank you very much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u156	Yes, you're excused. I am happy to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u157	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has already discussed the way in which the cabinet has dealt with the outcome and the social debate that has taken place. So I'm not going to go back to that. The final no vote has taken the cabinet very seriously. As you know, the Netherlands could not simply ratify. Through the things you are familiar with, we have worked to find an acceptable solution to the concerns and to achieve a satisfactory outcome of the negotiations with the other Contracting Parties. I shall now come to the geopolitics. In an issue like this, you have to reconcile the different landing sites. Those were the Dutch cities and villages, Brussels and Ukraine. It was complex to come up with a good solution, but we are defending it again here today. We therefore also believe that, at the European Council of 15 December 2016, we found legally binding solutions that respect the no vote. The Prime Minister has also addressed the fact that I would like to say a little bit more about this: we did this in the context of something that, I think, is the challenge of this time, namely to bring national feelings, the feelings of citizens, into line with a complex international context of multilateral treaties. Geopolitics plays a role in this, of course. Many of you have pointed this out. Certainly in this house it is important to take a step back and to remind you of the history of this treaty, so that there can be no misunderstanding about it. As you know, the treaty would originally be signed in November 2013, but the then President of Ukraine, Yanukovych, saw that under very sharp and great pressure from the Russian Federation. The European Union wants to bring stability and prosperity to the region through this association agreement and other association agreements, but Russia has always thwarted Ukraine's rapprochement with the European Union through the association agreement. The Kremlin also does not make it a secret of what is meant by "the fact that this agreement should be withdrawn', because it does not fit in with its vision of a Europe divided into spheres of influence, where Ukraine belongs in the Russian sphere of influence. Mr Knapen, Mr Ortoli and others spoke about this. Yanukovych's retreating movement led to the Maidan uprising in 2013; you know that, but I still want to remind you. This led to division and decline in Ukraine. In that sense, Senator Knapen, I think, is right: it's an iconic treaty. It's more than just an ordinary treaty. It's not about spheres of influence, it's about freedom and free choice. That's really something else. Mr Schrijver said the same thing. Nor were we concerned with the choice between Moscow and Brussels, on the contrary. It has much more to do with the discussion I have heard here about so-called buffer zones. However, it is not about buffer zones either. I think, on the contrary, that the whole Eastern Partnership can be an alternative to membership, as some of you have also said, but it must nevertheless be ensured that countries have a free choice to cooperate with European countries. As you know, after the mass protests on the Maidan Square, where ordinary Ukrainians have annexed themselves to the association agreement and to their own free choice, Crimea. That is the geopolitical context. It was therefore important to consider the way in which we would deal with this. The conflict in eastern Ukraine continues almost three years after this illegal annexation of Crimea. Russian foreign policy leads to destabilisation on Europe's borders, first and foremost directly in the region, think of Crimea and eastern Ukraine, but also Moldova and Georgia, where Russia has de facto territories of another country under control. So it's about something that goes much further, according to the rules of the game that we agreed with each other after the Second World War. With the illegal annexation of Crimea and the presence of Russian troops in eastern Ukraine, Russia is threatening the security order of all of us. That security order is about agreeing to respect each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity. This is an existential interest for the Netherlands, which must also be weighed by the government. If someone invades your neighbors' neighbors, you can't shrug your shoulders on that. You can't avoid that at all. Before you know it, it's gonna be a habit all over the street. The only answer to this is European unity, not against the Russian people or against Russia, but for freedom of choice. I do not need to go into the details of how we are dealing with more assertive Russian foreign policy in the past period. We have had this whole debate in this Chamber before, on European foreign policy, NATO, the role of Russia and the role in Syria. All these aspects were indeed an element; I also say of the campaign. That was also raised by the Prime Minister and myself during the campaign. So it was also something that we had to take into account in the subsequent considerations. With regard to Ukraine, of course, it is the intention to do so, and I believe that it can do so, precisely because it is a country that comes from a very difficult tradition of oppression to make that change and therefore to be a catalyst for change in that country. This will also increase Ukraine's resilience against further Russian attempts to dictate the country's international course. He said it very nicely: the starting point must be that it is not a matter of forcing the country to choose between Moscow and Brussels, which everyone can make of it, but that Ukraine as an independent country should be able to make its own choice about its international position and orientation. I also believe that Mr Ten Hoeve said this. The Ukrainian people have the right to an orientation on values that also apply in Europe and cooperation. It is, of course, also important for us to have a stable and prosperous neighbour. That is an essential point that cannot and must not be underestimated. Our views are more important if we are to form a united front in Europe. We can like it or not, but that was, of course, the essence of the debate we had with other countries. This concerns the core of the multilateral treaties and the relationship to the referendum law and so on. That's all being evaluated. I cannot take a stand on this at this time, but it was of course a task for the government to find a way out of this precisely as a result of the no vote. In this context, I agree, for example, with Mr Knapen, Mr Schrijver and Mr Oomen-Ruijten on the importance of the reliability of the treaty partner Netherlands. That was the issue. The Netherlands can only be a reliable partner. This is important for the European Union towards Ukraine, towards Russia, but also for the establishment of future agreements between the EU and third countries. That is also why it was so important for the cabinet, through the decision of Heads of State and Government, to do justice to the concerns that arose in the referendum debate and to allow Dutch ratification of the agreement for as long as possible. Reference has already been made to the Ruttedoctrine. This was the Ruttedoctrine. There is more to be said about this, but at least it was also about the importance of association agreements in this geopolitical context. Once again, no choice between Moscow and Brussels, not against Russia. It is also about the role of the Netherlands as a treaty partner, the unity of Europe and the enormous problems that exist. At the same time, we have called it the Prime Minister to take the grievances that were very understandable very seriously. This has led to the legally binding declaration, in which those complaints have been expressed in such a way that not only by the Netherlands but by all EU Member States there is no other interpretation possible. That is a major gain from the outcome of the referendum. A number of these points have been asked for further clarification. One of them is the efforts of the rule of law of the European Union and international partners. Of this, Mr Knapen understandably said that it seems a bit of a patchwork. I think that's part of it. These are the efforts of the international community, the European Union, its Member States and other international organisations. I believe that was mentioned the International Monetary, Fund, but also other organisations working in the field of security and cooperation. Of course, that could look like a patchwork blanket. I believe that many organisations and actors are working to strengthen the Ukrainian rule of law. That is in itself positive. Mr Knapen asked whether the association agreement could bring any order to that effect. The answer is yes. I have a number of comments to make on this. As an EU policy instrument, the Eastern Partnership aims at contributing to stability and prosperity in the neighbouring region on the east side of the Union. That is a very broad objective. So you have to operationalize it. Those association agreements make it specific to each of the countries of Ukraine, Georgia and Moldova, which achieves political association and economic integration. Given the scale of the challenges, which were also caused by the Russian policy I mentioned earlier, it is also understandable that work is being carried out on various fronts with the various instruments at the EU's disposal. Let me give you an example. I will come back to the main issue of combating corruption, but I am thinking now of a number of economic reforms that are regulated in the Association Agreement with regard to tax reform and less corruption at the border. The latter therefore means cooperation in the field of customs, which often contains a major element of corruption. In these areas, several countries can provide and strengthen bilateral support under the association agreements, for example because they have specific advantages, because they have knowledge in a particular field or because they are willing to cooperate with these countries and to enter into partnerships on very specific points. The association agreement then provides a blueprint for how to do that. Then we'll discuss this, too. Mr Knapen may recall from his own experience that the countries with which we have association agreements, in this case Ukraine, meet regularly with the Member States of the European Union. These agreements will then be very precise: what are the reforms behind, how can Member States work better together, and what does it mean if the IMF, which we are also part of, uses a specific policy instrument? Within the framework of the Association Agreement, you can move forward together on the basis of comparative advantages, for example in the area of the rule of law development and the fight against corruption. Under the association agreement, it will be very technical, but I would like to mention that, too, a sub-committee has been set up specifically to monitor compliance with the agreements in the fields of justice, security and freedom. That's the point, isn't it? However you stand in the debate, everyone naturally has enormous difficulty with the way in which Ukraine, through a transitional period and through oligarchs, slowly but surely grows into strengthening the state apparatus and openness of that apparatus for reform. You have to monitor that very difficult process carefully. Justice, independent justice, is at the heart of that. On a number of points, this key priority is given within the Association Agreement. An Association Council can say: that is what we are going to do this and that is what we are going to do in the coming period. To make it specific in response to Mr Knapen, I think that the monitoring mechanism is best to keep a finger on the wrist and to give the most logical and effective form to cooperation. I think it is important that we monitor this very closely, because we all know that this type of cooperation is bureaucratic before you know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u158	Those are a whole series of parts of a useful answer. But I also miss hard criteria in the elaboration of what the Association Council is going to do. Isn't it possible to include that in there? We are actually doing this within the European Union with the specific country reports. You simply determine once a year what you agreed to last year, where you delivered, where you failed and what that means for what you're going to do for the next 12 months. The point about the agreements mentioned by the Minister is that everything that is agreed is of an intentional nature. That's what you see all the time with these appointments. It's "we're gonna do this," "we should promote this" and "we want to invest in this now," but there's no orderly checkability where you can take everyone's measurements every year. Don't get me wrong, it's not about a moral superiority feeling from which we can explain how it's done, because a few hundred years ago, we behaved no different than the Ukraine now. It takes time, I realize that very well. However, I would like to have a mechanism that will allow you to determine very specifically what you have agreed on, on what points you have failed and who is going to do something about it. I would ask the Minister to respect this very conscientiously and not only intensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u159	I think it is a very good and important point. In fact, it is an essential point. Anyone who has to do with international cooperation knows what it means for obligations of all partners in an association agreement that will run away before you know it if you do not monitor and do not check on the basis of results. Within the European Union there is still the so-called CVM for Romania and Bulgaria. I think Mr Knapen is referring to such a mechanism. Given the nature of the association agreement, which does not provide for such a CVM, I would imagine that we will develop the monitoring mechanism and monitor it even more closely in terms of performance. I think that is an important point and I would be happy to take it with me at the next meeting on the association agreement. I fundamentally agree with that. That disciplines not only Ukraine, but also the European Union, in which we have 27 or 28 and where we are often much better bilaterally than bilaterally in a package of butter, if that is coordinated. I come to the important issue of the fight against corruption...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u160	My point also has to do with the important issue of combating corruption. Mr Knapen asked a question about the checkability. We can deal with Ukraine on the implementation and implementation of reforms, the fight against corruption, the building of the rule of law and so on. The Minister says that checkability is an essential point and he refers to the existing mechanism for Romania and Bulgaria. For the record, this checkability is in no way regulated in the present Treaty, nor is it stated in the declaration that we are going to settle it. According to the government, this declaration does justice to the electorate's concerns about, for example, endemic corruption in Ukraine. The Minister talks about progress, but I honestly do not see it as yet. The statement does not do justice to that concern in any way, because the check-out is not included in the Convention and the statement does not state that it will. How is the Minister going to put that into practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u161	Maybe I didn't make myself clear. I was not talking about the declaration at the moment, but about the association agreement itself. The association agreement exists and there is a monitoring mechanism. Mr Knapen asked whether you could not set up that mechanism in such a way that it would be more closely monitored in terms of goals, results and checkability. He has made a number of suggestions for this and there is also a toolbox for it. The statement did not add or remove anything. It's just the essence of an association agreement: how do you implement it and what do you do? The finger on the wrist is important. That doesn't have to mean there's no consequences. Well, there's a relationship there with the explanation. That brings me to the next point. This has to do with the additional articulation of Article 4.7.8. With that declaration in hand, it has become a piece of paper; that is now a name instead of a negative indication.... we do not hesitate to insist on measures if Ukraine fails to comply with its anti-corruption obligations. This has been underlined more clearly in the interpretation of all European capitals. The government felt that this was important in the light of the discussions that we had with the Chamber here and which came out very sharply during the consultative referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u162	Here we come to a fundamental point. The Minister may call "inlay sheet" a geuzen name. As far as I am concerned, it is an inlay that falls out of the Treaty and that the Treaty does not change in any way whatsoever. Indeed, the bill states that the fight against corruption is a central issue. It goes against the spirit of the association agreement, as I have said before. Corruption is not mentioned in Article 1 of the Association Agreement, but is only dealt with much further in the Treaty. It is now said that it is the central issue, but the Minister also says that the checkability is not in it. The question then arises as to how far this legally binding Ukraine is. The 28 could say: in our interpretation, even if it was not in Article 1, the fight against corruption is central. But what does that mean for Ukraine? Ukraine is not bound by this in any way. A mechanism of possible coercion, such as the CVM, is not in it. Then what's the meaning of that? I keep repeating that it's zero and no value at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u163	That was concluded very quickly, but not on the basis of Mr Van Apeldoorn's own reasoning. I just said that the monitoring mechanism is separate from the insert. We have indicated that this is indeed serious. Mr Van Apeldoorn says that this does not matter at all, that it is not manageable and that nothing can be done about it, but that is incorrect. The second is that, on the basis of the famous Article 4.7.8 of the Association Agreement, action can be taken if Ukraine fails to fulfil its anti-corruption obligations. That is indeed part of the association agreement. It is wrong what Mr Van Apeldoorn says about this. Where there was feeling in Dutch society and with Mr Van Apeldoorn I say this because of what he says that this would not be sufficiently prioritized, we have repeated this. We have therefore set out the importance of this article. I think that's pretty sharp. In any case, it is a significant improvement. If it is said that the concerns about corruption remain great, then I agree very quickly. Much remains to be done in this regard. I would like to mention a number of examples where things are not going well at all, but we have been working over the past period with the sharpest instruments available to us for this type of situation. Looking at the huge road Ukraine must take and pressure from the European Union must become a catalyst for change. That is the essence, but sometimes it is also necessary on the outside. Ukraine even acknowledges that. This is in the interests of the Netherlands, Europe and the fight against international corruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u164	The Minister says that through the declaration there has been a reprioritisation of the fight against corruption, but I repeat that the reprioritisation concerns an interpretation, a unilateral, unilateral interpretation of the 28 to which the Ukrainian Government is not bound in any way. The reprioritisation is something of the 28, but not of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u165	For the purpose of combating corruption, this does have consequences for Ukraine. If we do not like a number of things, then with this 'hosg' in our hands, I will call it that, not the insert form's', do not hesitate to intervene in the direction of Ukraine. That is why it is so important that we agree with each other, because then we will not be in Ukraine's hands. We consider this to be so important that we can actually intervene if necessary, with this article being re-prioritised. Of course you don't do that right away. I understand that, too. If you get some message, you're not going to cancel the whole association agreement, but there has to be progress. If there is a decline, then the Dutch Government, but not only the Dutch Government, will intervene in a joint interpretation of all the Heads of Government. Then about the corruption itself. There's a lot wrong. I very much agree with that. I have indicated how that was created, where it came from, and that it is far from gone. It's really hard to fight. The pressure of the European Union can only be positive, not negative. But let's call it fair and square. In a bad situation, it is also fair to say that a number of things improve. The Ukrainian government is showing commitment to tackle corruption. I believe that the roll-out of an electronic declaration system aimed at publicising the assets and salaries of government officials and politicians is important. It is true that it concerns people who are very rich. We know that the President of Ukraine has a lot of assets in the chocolate. We do not think this level of power building is normal, given the normal position of industry, competition and politicians. That is why it is so important that this happens. There is also a special anti-corruption unit. It has a mandate to prosecute extensive corruption. This has already been started. It is easy to be cynical about that, but without the association agreement this would not have happened. But the Ukrainians, the power apparatus and the government must do it themselves. However, I am convinced that it would not have happened in this form if this association agreement did not exist. We are now doing something about the data from the electronic declaration system. In the meantime, 1,000 judges have resigned because of the reform of the legal system. That's all very well. We can see that in Turkey too, but there is a wrong reason for doing so, while there is a good reason for doing so. The European Union's Support Group for Ukraine, referred to by Mr Knapen, has the specific task of coordinating the fight on a number of points. I can mention many other examples, but I think it is important to show that both the outcome of the referendum, the importance we attach to it, and the reprioritisation have been important for the fight against corruption. We will not be naive about this in any way; let there be no misunderstanding about it. There is also a paradox, as can be seen from the transparency indices. After all, when so much comes out, when things become public and transparent, people are right to say: this country is corrupt. However, I have not yet heard the people who are opposed to this association agreement mention a better method by which we could help the country to improve this. Nor would it be in the interests of the Netherlands to let this go, because corruption will never remain national. A number of other essential points have been asked. Mr Schaap has rightly asked to what extent there is scope for business initiatives in the bilateral relationship with Ukraine. It is, of course, the case that the investment climate in Ukraine can slowly but surely be promoted through these measures. Mr Schaap knows much more about this than I do. In the long run, of course, this will give more opportunities for trade and more opportunities for companies. The European Union supports Ukrainian SMEs through a specific fund, the so-called DCFTA facility. This fund will accompany companies in adapting to the standards of the European Union that their products and services will soon have to meet. There is therefore an increase in standards. I will come back to the issue of animal welfare in that context, but this is, of course, at the heart of the matter. You're gonna upgrade the case, which is why you're gonna get a more even playing field. So also the argument that you're not working on a level playing field doesn't apply; exactly the opposite is true. The Netherlands is also active. There have been more opportunities and more scope for private sector initiatives in recent years. This is facilitated, among other things, by the CBI and the Programme Broadcast Managers. For the Dutch business community, the regular instruments of the Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland are now available, as you know. The SGP Group has rightly asked: it is also important that you think about minorities; should that not be given more attention in Ukraine? The protection of human rights comes very slowly from the tradition of communism and a state-led and sometimes corrupt government. We were just talking about that. That's something that needs to change slowly but surely. The interesting thing about the choice that the Ukrainian people have now made is that she actually says: we want to work on it; that is our goal. That's why those people were on Maidan Square. These are the common values on which the European Union is built, including respect for democratic principles, fundamental human rights, freedoms and the rule of law. We are far from there yet, but I do see that this is embraced and used and part of the discourse. That is what is being measured. This is becoming increasingly important in the political debate within Ukraine. It then gives specific attention to the protection of minorities. It is an essential element of the Association Agreement and thus also an element of control and monitoring. The Netherlands is also working bilaterally in this area. Our Embassy in Kiev supports the position of religious minorities and promotes tolerance through the MATRA and human rights fund. An example of this is the project Dialogue Involving Religious Communities, to put it in good Dutch. This is precisely what Mr Van Dijk is referring to: promoting tolerance, acceptance and peace-building in Ukraine. That project brings together various Christian, Jewish and Muslim groups in a serious dialogue in an extremely good way, at least as far as I have been reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u166	Thank you for your reply and, above all, for the conclusion, in which you explicitly address the Christian, Jewish and other minorities. Is it conceivable that you should inform this Chamber of your commitment in this area? How can we track that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u167	I think it is certainly possible to keep the Chamber informed of my commitment in this area. However, I need to think about what the most useful method is: only on this important point, or something wider on a regular basis? I have just attended a meeting of EU Foreign Ministers on this type of association agreement. That is what we are doing and we are reporting on it. I will ensure that you receive an additional report on this point, either separately or in the letter that deals with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u168	Thank you for that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u169	Mr Van Dijk asked what the government is doing in concrete terms to address the legitimate concerns about further Europeanisation. This criticism was, in another way, also from the PVV group: we are dealing here with a continuing train, which goes on and on, without anyone having any influence on it. It's all bad, because nobody's looking at it anymore, nobody's got control of it anymore. The cabinet has been working since 2014, I say to the SGP Group, strongly on this point. Firstly, with the Strategic Agenda, we have placed the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality much more at the heart of the EU. You can see that the EU's legislative programme has been reduced on all fronts. It's just not about deregulation, it's just about not doing what's not necessary and not participating in what comes naturally from having a lot of Commissioners. This has actually led to fewer new legislation. We have focused precisely on the areas where we do want to do so, so where a European value is added. This could be in the area of the internal market or in the area of the environment. This is also about things where you sometimes have to do a little more, as you do less elsewhere. Cooperation in the area of migration needs to be properly developed. In 2019, we will have that sounded through in that Strategic Agenda. Secondly, with the new dynamism in Europe, I do not want to dwell on this for too long, because it is outside the debate this evening, i.e. with the Brexit and with the new momentum in France and Germany, it is certainly an opportunity to give Europe a different dynamic. This does not necessarily mean any more for us, but I do believe that we have come from a very pessimistic view to the beginning of a united Europe and to the realization that Europe needs to be substantially reformed. Of course, there is still a considerable political debate between East and West and North and South. The impact of the Brexit on the association agreement has already been mentioned. I believe that the answers to these questions have been sufficient. Mr Koffeman spoke about lower animal welfare standards in Ukraine. We have had a good debate on this. It is true that we did not find each other there, but this point has already been raised during the discussion of this association agreement in this Chamber. I always find it difficult to talk about individual companies. The activities of the company MHP, which is active in the production of chickens for fattening, are one of the subjects discussed. For this purpose, MHP has adopted specific policies. At the request of the IFC, the International Finance Corporation, a part of the World Bank, an independent audit took place a few months ago, focusing on animal welfare, where the audit said the company scored well in the field of animal welfare and animal safety. So that's a serious organization. In that sense, I think Mr Koffeman's view on this is incorrect, given the evaluation mentioned above. MHP applies international standards as a business standard, such as EU directives and the standards of the World Organisation for Animal Health, of which Ukraine is a permanent member. Animal welfare standards vary from country to country, and we cannot force them unilaterally on third countries, however much we would like to. If you want to influence something, instead of standing aside and saying that it's all wrong, you can do it now. The EU Association Treaty has now established that Ukraine must align its legislation with that of the EU, including in the field of animal welfare. Perhaps that could be better in your eyes, but at least something is happening. Ukraine may need to adopt very specific EU regulations on food safety, animal and plant health standards and animal welfare. That's not going to happen overnight. I recognize that. Ukraine is working on a plan of action for the livestock sector. It will have to submit this plan to the joint sanitary and phytosanitary committee no later than three months after the entry into force of the Association Agreement. The plan of action also sets out how and when Ukraine will adopt EU animal welfare legislation. So I see something positive again, not something negative. Where do you put the dynamics? If you want to change something in the world, you're just gonna have to find the dynamics. Maybe it's not good enough, maybe we should tighten it up, but let me name it in terms of opportunity. I believe that thanks to the association agreement, we have a great opportunity to raise animal welfare standards in Ukraine to EU standards. I hope one more time that this is an opportunity for the Party for Animals to think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u170	The Foreign Minister refers to a World Bank report. I know that report. It is involved in a very broad study of Compassion in World Farming. This organisation indicates that there are deplorable conditions for animals at MHP. If the Minister says that MHP or Ukraine may raise its standards to ours, then he fundamentally disagrees with Mr Schaap's statement that standards are much higher there than in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u171	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u172	My question is whether that's true. Is my observation that there seem to be some inconsistencies in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u173	Let's go back to that first one. I refer to a report and I hope that Mr Koffeman will take it seriously. He then says that this report is part of a very large number of different companies. I would like to be informed by Mr Koffeman if I wrongly take the view that the IFC report indicates that, according to the audit, the company scored well in the field of animal welfare and biosafety. That's point one. The second point is that, through the association agreement and its requirements, there is a need to submit a number of plans for a certain period of time. That's my point. I even told Mr Knapen how that was monitored. I think you're gonna get a dynamic going in the right direction. That seems to me to be better than staying away and saying that it is so terrible and so bad in Ukraine. Here you have an opportunity to strengthen it politically, including through the Member States of the European Union and the influence that the PvdD and perhaps other parties in Europe can exert, especially in this debate with Ukraine. It is more than a debate, because the country has to meet a number of standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u174	We hear that argument a lot. The moment you want to fight child labour, you have to do business with countries where child labour rules, because then you might be able to improve the situation. However, that is not automatic. It is noted by the national government that a lot of child labour is taking place in Ukraine, particularly in the agricultural sector. The Minister's theorem is that we have no influence when we do not associate with it. Assocating means trading. That's a very relative point of view, isn't it? You could also have a different way of influencing things. You could say that a country is welcome as soon as it meets a number of standards. That is how we do it when we join the EU. If it no longer has corruption, at least not at the level that is now known, if it no longer has child labour, if animal welfare is guaranteed and a number of requirements are met, then the country is welcome to become either a trading partner or a member of the EU. But not the reverse: first trade and then exercise influence and see what comes of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u175	The consequence of Mr Koffeman's position is that you can probably wait a very long time and that the situation of child labour and animal welfare in Ukraine will remain exactly as it is in the meantime. Then you're not working on an improvement in the situation. I believe that we continue to disagree on this point. This is my institution in international politics. I believe there are also a lot of indications that this is how it works. I would just like to draw attention to a number of points relating to the situation in a number of countries in Eastern Europe, which are now members of the European Union, which are not going to happen for Ukraine, and which at least have been associated with standards. The situation may not yet be sufficient, but it has improved considerably.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u176	Minister, may I ask you how much longer you think you need? What's your assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u177	My guess is I'm done. I think I have answered the questions of the Chamber. So I'm gonna need another zero minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u178	That's beautiful, thank you very much. We have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u179	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the government for answering the questions and contributing to the debate. I believe that this debate and the complications prior to this debate have made an important contribution to an evaluation of the referendum law. The Prime Minister indicated that. He was careful because he's a missionary, but still. We were perhaps a little surprised here and there at the great words that were sometimes used about this treaty. We also noticed here and there a very pronounced negativity in relation to everything that is happening around us and the possibilities there are to contribute to it. Having said that, I think it has been able to sharpen our insights. I would like to endorse what Mr Kuiper said. According to him, it is ultimately a question of state-law purity asking for the final weighing-up of this law on approval of the Association Treaty to be made in parliament. Having said that, I shall return to my group with the same impression I had this afternoon, namely that in my group there seems to be a large majority in favour of this. In any case, I would like to continue the constructive stance until we can vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u180	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me endorse what has just been said by Mr Knapen. I do believe that it was a good discussion, which has contributed significantly to a better understanding of, or at least feelings for, the general and wider context in which this whole discussion on the association agreement takes place. I would like to say a few words on a specific point, namely the importance of the international context that emerged in this debate, the question of what the so-called Ruttedoctrine was supposed to mean. According to the Minister, we're not talking about a buffer zone. It is not a choice against Russia either, but we are trying to help promote the situation, so that it does not come to competition between different key players in such an area. The problem remains that Russia is pursuing an active policy of destabilising the situation in Ukraine, not only in the small Republics of the East, but also in a broad sense. I myself refer to this in connection with the debate on corruption. It is, I believe, a conscious Russian policy to keep the government as it were weak because of the continuing problems in the eastern part of the country, which means that too little political attention can be focused on combating corruption. Those two are connected. In this context, I wonder to what extent we can still expect a outcome in Minsk on the basis of previous agreements. I ask the Minister once again, but if he is not able to answer this question now but at a later date, I am also satisfied with it. One final comment. Ukraine is, of course, a corrupt country. There have been very big words about this. I notice that those who use these words never light up a pinkie to say anything about the much worse corruption in Russia. For a long time, figures have been mentioned and presented. I wonder if colleagues will spend that time trying to figure out all this kind of thing, once again, with an overview of the hundreds and hundreds of billions involved in corruption in Russia. The fact that this whole dimension is not mentioned is part of a broader picture, namely that Russia is not mentioned at all in this whole discussion. Why should we commit ourselves to an association agreement with Ukraine, which, of course, is a part of the association agreement, as the Prime Minister has said, of course? Not against Russia, but to promote democracy and prosperity in Ukraine. And in such a policy you occasionally encounter Russia, in an unpleasant way. Too bad this house is more or less said: well, we don't worry about that. Ukraine, after all, is a worthless country from which we must continue to pull our hands off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u181	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister for his reply. I would also like to thank all my colleagues for their input in this very interesting debate. I would like to make four brief points. We have, of course, talked a lot about the referendum law. It is good that we decided at the time that these should be thoroughly evaluated three years after entry into force. That is already the case in 2018, and my group is looking forward to it. In the meantime, it is important not to confuse consultative, consultative and corrective referenda. The referendum law requires a review. It seems to me that this happened after the outcome of April 2016. It has led to an interesting EU document which is a very important tool in today's interpretation of the Association Treaty. Secondly, we have talked a lot about the legal significance of the European Union declaration. Mr Koffeman was so helpful in leading me back to the opinion of the Council of State. As regards the Poroshenko Declaration, it states that it could be considered as an acceptance of the EU decision of 15 December and is therefore part of the context to be included in the interpretation of this Convention. The press statement by Poroshenko and the statement by the Head of State have therefore a legal meaning. I come to my third point. Even after the Prime Minister's words, I did not quite understand what the added meaning of that remarkable unilateral Dutch declaration would be in Article 10. Again, we have still not seen the text. My impression is that it is purely for domestic consumption. I have a bit of a fear that it may also cause a lot of irritation to the 27 other treaty partners, the European Union as such, and Ukraine. I call on the Foreign Minister to reconsider with his staff whether all this is necessary. Finally, I come to the main point: the broader meaning of this EU-Ukraine Treaty. It is, of course, in the promotion of sound macroeconomic development and the promotion of mutual trade and investment between Europe and Ukraine. But perhaps it is even more important to reach out to Ukraine at this time in the transition to a market economy, a full rule of law and a democracy that is committed to full respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. This is already explicitly stated in Article 1 of the Association Agreement. I say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that this is actually the fight against corruption from Article 1. After all, if you want to work for security, for judicial cooperation, for freedom, for the rule of law, then you will also be fighting corruption, a subject that will be dealt with later in the Treaty. And, of course, these are things that Ukraine itself must achieve. But international attention to this and foreign assistance can help greatly. I am referring to assistance through involvement and through legal advice in the drafting of legislation. I'm referring to assistance in training legal staff, police and prison guards. But I am also referring to assistance in promoting animal welfare. All these things can help greatly. That is the main point of our debate today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u182	I agree with Mr Schrijver that we must always interpret laws and treaties. He's an expert on that field. But the way he now interprets Article 1 is very free. Let us be clear: Article 1 does not mention the fight against corruption. Mr Schrijver may want to read that in it, but it does not contain that subject. So that is not the handle that gives you justice to the results of the elections. So Mr Schrijver can interpret this article as he likes, but it does not contain the fight against corruption. This subject is only mentioned later, and I believe in Article 22.2 (d).
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u183	I believe that we continue to disagree on this point. What are the treaties like? I can say to Mr Van Apeldoorn that it is very common to use some great success to identify the subjects first in the first two or three articles, in order to give them specific effect only later. In Article 1, too, we see that we want to strengthen cooperation in the fields of justice, freedom, security, in order to strengthen the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. I have just written it down, precisely because Mr Van Apeldoorn keeps coming back to it. So this is one of the main objectives. We will come back to this later on with regard to the police, with regard to the prisons, with regard to the fight against corruption. That is a very normal structure of the text of a treaty and there is nothing special about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u184	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister and the Prime Minister for the comprehensive presentation, also in general terms. I would also like to thank them for addressing the question of how to deal with it. I think today's debate has made a lot of sense about how and what the consultative referendum is about. How and how not to interpret and use it? How it all goes forward is something for the future. Let me repeat once again that the cabinet has followed a good path, together with the other Member States of Europe. We have made it quite clear once again how to respond to the uncertainties and the questions that obviously exist among the population, but also in politics. I believe that the right steps have been taken. I am also pleased that the European Union has committed itself to this. It has also been made clear in legal terms that, in fact, Ukraine, through the President, has committed itself to this. I would also like to thank the Minister for giving some openings to the question of how we are actually going to support Ukraine. I also fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he says that you can incredibly complain here about how corrupt that country is and how bad it is all going to be, but that you should, above all, take steps, exert influence, support all the good forces in that country on the road to constitutional and good democratic relations. We must support them in fulfilling all kinds of values that we have in the Netherlands and Europe. That's the way we're going. I noticed that the opponents of this treaty are incredibly pessimistic about the situation in Ukraine. In doing so, we are ignoring the forces that are moving in the right direction. By "the good side," I mean in the direction of the values we use here. I would like to add my voice to that: Ukraine has been put in a rather dark light by its opponents. At Ukraine's neighbor, everything's ten times worse. And with that neighbor Ukraine must also be able to find it in the sphere of geopolitical relations. If no major steps are taken to radically improve the situation in Russia towards good constitutional relations and a little bit of working democracy, then Ukraine will be extremely difficult. In this respect, I believe that a strong emphasis on geopolitical relations in the broad sense, let us say as an entourage of working with this treaty, has a serious urgency. I have every confidence that the cabinet will handle that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u185	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and the Prime Minister who is now absent very much for his reply. I'm gonna be brief. I would once again like to thank the Minister for his commitment to making explicit use of the Treaty to strengthen the position of Jewish, Christian and other minorities in Ukraine. We'd like to stay informed. I would also like to thank him for his comment on the commitment of the cabinet to reform the EU. Of course there is a lot to say about that, but we are not going to do that now. As far as the SGP is concerned, it applies here: national what is possible, European what needs to be done. You can only speak for or against, no matter how complicated an issue is, no matter how far it goes. There is no "yes, if" or "no, unless." It's for or against; flatter can't be. I am not talking about a referendum right now, but about the voting options of a simple senator. In my first term, I outlined our dilemmas. On the one hand, there are several plausible geopolitical arguments to strive for a good relationship with Ukraine: no EU membership and no unnecessary provocations towards Russia, but appropriate cooperation. In doing so, we serve our own interests, but also the interests of millions of Ukrainians who crave more rule of law and less corruption. In doing so, it is very unwise to meet Putin at this very moment with an internally divided Europe. On the other hand, there is the potential damage caused by the lack of acceptance of the no vote that came out of the referendum. As I said earlier, my group understands the annoyance of many citizens about an EU that has certainly behaved quite often in the past as a caterpillar-never-satisfaction; I will not talk about continuing trains anymore. It is not for nothing that we have, over the past few decades, fundamentally said no to just about every treaty with which far-reaching national powers have been transferred to Brussels. However, the rejection of a cooperation agreement aimed at stability in a region which is important to us is not at all a substantive answer to this discontent with Europeanisation. On the contrary. Nor do we serve our own interests, is our impression. EU scepticism should not lead to the child being disposed of with the bath water. All things considered, therefore, the SGP Group did not find any convincing arguments in terms of substance to reject this association agreement. We therefore support the legislative proposal. Finally, through the President, I would like to address the absent Prime Minister. It is still not entirely excluded that he will play a role in a subsequent cabinet. I would very much like to call on him: please do a great service to our representative democracy and come forward with a repeal law as soon as possible. A law of withdrawal relating to the referendum law, to be understood.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u186	Madam President. We talked here for about six hours. Yeah, about what? It was actually a repeat of June 2015. At that time, we discussed the association agreement in detail. This has now been discussed in great detail, while in fact this is what we are talking about. There is an association agreement, which had already been agreed by both chambers. That does not mean that we have agreed to it, I would like to emphasise this point. There was a referendum. A no came out of that. Then an arrangement came into force. What we have the most difficulty with is not that political parties have an opinion, but that parties are turning. Just before the elections, everything is said: we are going to settle it with the referendum and the association agreement cannot go on. But when the voice is in the van, they turn again. I think that's a lot of dishonesty. My group agrees. We have difficulty with that: not with the opinion of a party but with the turning. In fact, that is also a sacrifice on the part of our electorate. And then we are somewhat surprised that there is a distance between the citizen and politics! With this kind of behavior, we only make it worse; that doesn't make it any less. As a blow to the head, we are going to talk here about the referendum, in a kind of evaluation of the referendum. You have to conclude from that: when it affects us, we have to turn our necks again. That's actually very, very unfortunate. Listening to colleagues and to both ministers, whom I would like to thank for their input, I still have to conclude that the Treaty has not been amended. There are no reservations on the treaty either. In fact, there's nothing. The Prime Minister said he should come up with a real solution, not a cosmetic one. Well, this is really a cosmetic, because nothing has changed at all. We have been talking here for six hours, including interpretations of the Treaty. That is simply nonsense, because within the scope provided by the Treaty, Member States can simply give their own interpretation. After all, the basis of the whole is in fact the treaty, not what is being told about it and everything that is being rigged. It's just about the treaty. The so-called insert sheet, which does not exist, has no value whatsoever. Anyway, apparently the parties in this house, apart from three parties, are going home with a feeling of satisfaction. They are satisfied and they are happy to be chased down the Prime Minister's goat path.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u187	Do you keep an eye on time?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u188	I'm watching time, Madam President. I only have a few tickets left, so I'll be ready in a minute. As far as the Brexit is concerned, I think it is very special that the Foreign Minister should give a different answer in the reply from the Prime Minister. I find that very special. In that case, you are questioning the answer to questions by both ministers. One of them might not be telling the whole truth or a little bit off the goat path. In fact, I do not have to tell you: I think it is clear that the PVV Group will vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u189	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister very much for the answer. We have discussed in detail the consultative referendum and its nature. There was some confusion about that at times, but I think it has become clear that this is a serious advice. The way we have talked about this makes it clear that there has been a lot of talk and thought about how to deal with it. I would just like to make it clear that the opinion that emerged from the referendum came from almost 20% of the voters. Mr Van Apeldoorn often referred to 30%, but this represents 60% of 30% of the voters. I'm not mathematically very well-educated, but that's less than 30%.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u190	I will read what I said later in the Acts, but let me be clear: the threshold of 30% has been reached. That was my point. Then 60% of the voters who came forward voted no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u191	Yes, that's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u192	The point is, we agreed what the turnout threshold was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u193	I know that story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u194	Mrs. Strik...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u195	And so 60% of those who voted are against. It is not a question of saying, as Mr Schrijver did earlier, that this is only 20% of the electoral population. No, because it's a valid rash. In other elections, we don't set it against the turnout either. So that's just none of your business.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u196	I now give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u197	Mr van Apeldoorn, I just wanted to correct what I heard a few times from your mouth, namely that 30% of the voters voted against. But you have now clearly explained that you know that it is 20%. I think we have sufficiently discussed here that there was indeed a valid result. The question is simply what a valid result of an advisory referendum means. You have to take it very seriously, but that does not make it a binding referendum.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u198	Mr Van Apeldoorn, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u199	You shouldn't be talking about that 20%. The point is that 60% of the people who voted were against. It doesn't matter to say that that's only 20%. I assume that 80% would have voted differently or voted in favour of the treaty, but electoral research shows that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u200	I would like to give my own interpretation of the results. It is that almost 20% of the voters voted against the Treaty. You can explain it in many other ways, but I also want to put it in the middle. That doesn't change the fact that it's a lot of people. And I think that advice has been taken very seriously. In the end, this has also been seriously weighed by our group, but that has not led us to refuse to support the reforms in Ukraine. This is how we see it: by supporting the Treaty, we also support the reforms of the rule of law, stability in Ukraine. We think we have more opportunities for this than we do without the Treaty. You still have a platform on which you can provide support, not only to the government but also to civil society, and to the authorities. We have talked about the level of corruption and other violations of the rule of law that we would like to see addressed by the EU, if that is the case in Ukraine. The Minister has rightly indicated that you need a unanimous decision by the Council in order to take measures. We regret that, because we think it will be difficult to achieve this. That is precisely why we want to encourage the Minister and the Dutch Government to do everything in the Netherlands' ability to actively pursue the rule of law, both through support and through negative incentives. In the first period, I had already indicated that we would like to be kept informed of these efforts and their impact on Ukraine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u201	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the response of the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I do not have much more to say about the association agreement and the referendum issues. I have treated that sufficiently in my first term. In view of the reactions of the Prime Minister and the Minister, there is no reason to go into this further. However, I would like to comment on the geopolitical element. The basis is respect for territorial integrity. Of course, we all agree that this is a primary issue. But in Eastern Ukraine, war and civil war are in progress. The war element has the Russians' actions as a backdrop. The civil war element has as its background the population composition within Ukraine. Ukraine has become independent within the Soviet borders, which by the way were based on previous situations. But that means that there is a very strong sense of nationality in Western Ukraine, that this is less so in Central Ukraine and that the sense of nationality in Eastern Ukraine is very weakly developed. The eastern Ukraine is originally dominated by groups of little national bound Cossacks and then largely...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u202	Can I ask you to stick to the subject a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u203	I do have my three minutes' speaking time available, Mr President. After that, Ukraine is largely populated from Russia. This is even more true for Crimea. Acknowledging that background and the willingness to seek reasonable solutions could help to mitigate the sharp sides of the conflict. We are prepared to help Ukraine within the Association Agreement. In doing so, we address the problems of the country. Then we also have the right to talk about this problem, perhaps the biggest problem in the country, and to ask for recognition of the existing backgrounds and the willingness to seek reasonable solutions. This can be done, for example, within the Minsk negotiations. We do not participate in this, but our allies Germany and France do. In this way, de-escalation should be sought further, but on the basis of realistic assumptions. I don't think that's gonna happen enough. Does the Minister agree with me on his own and see this background? I did not receive an answer to that, but I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u204	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for their reply on whether or not to approve the most far-reaching association agreement the EU has concluded. I have said before that it is not a finding of an investigation by the SP, but that other relevant political actors have also made a statement. I would also like to refer to Mr Koenders himself, who said that this can be read out in the Acts that this is a far-reaching agreement, an agreement that goes beyond other political agreements that the EU has concluded. It was another case with Turkey, because it was an association agreement based on Article 238 of the Treaty of Rome, which was consciously aimed at membership. With regard to the Government's response, I would like to comment on what the Prime Minister in particular said about the legal status of the declaration, or the insert. Having heard today's discussion, I would like to call it the reading guide, because it is actually a reading guide of the 28. The Prime Minister said that in the end it was not necessary to ask for Ukraine's consent. That didn't matter, because it was indeed about the reading, the interpretation of the 28. In doing so, the Prime Minister has admitted that no tittel or jota has actually been changed to the Treaty. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has made it clear that this is a matter of reprioritisation, as the reader also states, in relation to the issue of combating corruption. I listened carefully to Mr Schrijver, who said that this reprioritisation was not really necessary because it was already in Article 1. The government has considered the reprioritisation necessary, but the Minister concludes that we can intervene on the basis of that statement if corruption turns out to be wrong. My question would be on the basis of which this can be done, since with this reader no changes have been made to the treaty to the association agreement with Ukraine. I had a strong déjà vu feeling today, as was recalled earlier, because it was a lot about why we should be in favour of this treaty. All the arguments put forward by the proponents have once again not convinced me. We were against it and we stayed against it. This also applies to the association agreements with Moldova and Georgia. We also voted against it for a variety of reasons. The question why it should be today is how we deal with the outcome of the referendum in the light of the referendum law. I have heard too little about this in many groups. I say to Mrs Strik that if the outcome had been a clear yes, we would not have changed our substantive balance. That would not have been necessary, because it would not have been submitted to Parliament again, as it would have automatically entered into force under Article 10 of the referendum law, or at least by Royal Decree. It concerns the following, and in that sense this is correct. A ruling has been passed and a law has been passed by the Second and the First Chambers. Then the people will be asked: do you agree with that, yes or no? If that is a no, it will be reviewed. I have heard too few spokesmen about this. As far as the referendum was concerned, this actually happened, and I must say that it is sometimes in a bad way. For example, Mr Knapen seemed to question the legitimacy of the referendum by pointing out the use of a voting app. The CDA Group was never in favour of a referendum, but it is the law that passed after an extensive debate. Then how do you deal with the law? Party leader Buma was clear about this: from a democratic point of view, you cannot ignore the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u205	I do not understand how Mr Van Apeldoorn can come to the conclusion that I seem to be questioning legitimacy in such a way that he said that he would draw it if I only found that the method that was in mind when the referendum law was written was different from the understandable, modern, logical and technically better method that could be used when the referendum law was operationalised. I am not questioning this referendum law and its application at all. If Mr Van Apeldoorn thinks he has to conclude from my words, I have the impression that this is a form of manipulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u206	I am glad that Mr Knapen has corrected this. I did say, "Looks." I therefore note that he does not do so, so he does not question legitimacy. That's good. I only notice that, as soon as it comes to the referendum and its value, we are talking about a voting app, about GeenPeil and GeenStijl and all kinds of statements that have been made about it, and I think: in the end that does not matter. What matters is that the rash is there. Then Mr Schrijver tells him, and Mr Strik tells him, that after the end of the day, only 20% of the voters voted no. They were therefore against the Treaty in the referendum. Then I think: that's an interesting calculation. But there was a turnout threshold. That's exactly what the PvdA group wanted. At that time, the result is valid. So now it's just true that 60% was against it. If you want to do the math like that, I am also saying this to Mrs Strik, then you can also say that 12% or 13% of the voters were in favour of this treaty. That is an extremely narrow support, I would say. I will not go into what the VVD said about the referendum. However, I cannot escape the impression that it is not a question of questioning the legitimacy of the result of the referendum that there is actually little respect for the law adopted in this Chamber. In a way, they distance themselves from it. I would say that this is contrary to the way in which we should deal with laws in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u207	Of course, we are against the referendum law. However, I have just said in my speech: now that the law is in place and that it has been used, I would like to know what kind of advice it is. It is an advisory referendum. I can derive from that result and from all the debates that have taken place around it. My conclusion was: not much. That's all it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u208	We will not be able to agree on that today. If 60% of the voters voted no, then I think the Council is clear, namely that the association agreement should not go ahead and that the government should submit a repeal law to parliament. All right, finally, I would like to point out once again the words of Sybrand Buma, the party leader of the CDA. As you can see, the SP Group already sees him as the new Prime Minister of this country in a coalition with the SP over the middle and over the left. If we do not do justice to the outcome of the referendum, even the CDA party in the Senate has never said that one would want to deviate from this line, it would only feed cynicism and lack of confidence in the politics of Brussels and The Hague. And just when Europe is at your heart, and the European project and its transcendental importance, and that is what the SP Group agrees with, because we are also in favour of European cooperation, you have to remember once again whether we are not going to take another path in this direction after the rejection of the Constitution, which then came to say to the people: listen, you went to that ballot box with four million people for nothing, and we are nevertheless drawing our own plan. What does this mean for Europe and for the legitimacy of the European project? Our fear is that at some point things will just explode. The lesson that we must learn from this referendum and its outcome is that if you fail to take the population with you, you are on a dead end. I will therefore advise my group, but you will not be surprised not to vote in favour of the entry into force of the association agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u209	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister, and through him the Prime Minister, for the first-term response. As far as I am concerned, these answers have not made much more clear about the legally binding declaration, the legitimacy and scope of the renegotiation and the securities that we can derive from it. It is regrettable that the Prime Minister did not have the opportunity to attend this debate until the end. Nor is it nothing if, during this debate, the last remaining option for a new majority coalition that the informant still saw turns out to be an unworkable variant. That's a distraction, isn't it? I have no supplementary questions to the Foreign Minister. It was also a bit of a debate about the emperor's beard, I must say, because the majority in this house was now fixed for the agreement. This was reported in the newspaper this morning and that was not contested. In the first period it was mentioned that Mr Schaap has a different perception of the Ukrainian chicken industry than I do. It seemed like we were talking about two different worlds. He talked about MHP, a company of a fresh, young Ukrainian entrepreneur, who would meet higher demands than we know in the EU. I talked about Yuriy Kosiuk, becoming billionaire as Ukraine's biggest chicken farmer, and also the only chicken farmer in Ukraine. He does not pay taxes by making clever use of an old treaty between the Soviet Union and Cyprus. He does not have to meet the minimum requirements applicable to Dutch poultry farmers. He finds his main export customer in the Netherlands and has also opened a branch in Veenendaal, to the dismay of the Dutch poultry sector, led by Gert-Jan Oplaat, party colleague of colleague Schaap. He's a man of many talents, because he shows up in key positions all over Ukraine. For those interested in Kosiuk's support from Brussels and Kiev, several articles have now been published. Perception and reality are sometimes far apart. So that treaty is just gonna happen. We'll see what comes of it. The two-and-a-half million no-voters in the referendum will not be happy with that, is my expectation. My party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u210	I note that the Foreign Minister has the opportunity to respond directly. I am happy to give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u211	Madam President. I would like to thank the members of the First Chamber for their second term contribution. Indeed, we have talked very often in this Chamber about the association agreement, before and after the referendum. I shall now turn to a number of questions and make a final comment. I'll start with Mr. Knapen. I would like to thank him for his comments, including those on the positive basis of many of his group members. I think this is important, including for political support and support for this decision. He's right. The final weighting is again taking place in Parliament today. We have had a number of discussions on the referendum. I don't want to go into that right now. The Prime Minister has already said that there are different views on this. I do think it is important that all this is taken into account in the evaluation, including in the case of multilateral treaties and their opportunities and risks. However, this is something that should be included in all the details outside this debate. We had a referendum. That's part of our legislation. The government took that seriously, too. The same goes for the results. I would like to mention that once again, for all those people who say that this is a referendum in which the people have not been heard. The Prime Minister in particular, but also myself and other members of the cabinet could have taken a very easy position. We could have said, guys, this is the result and we're not gonna think anymore. On the contrary, we wanted to take the concerns of the people very seriously. A large number of activities have been carried out for this reason. It wasn't a deposit form to become popular. I believe that is far too easy. People who say that have to prove that again. The easiest thing would be to stop thinking and say: this is the result. We have taken the concerns of the people seriously. You can call it a deposit form or not, or recognize the importance. If you know anything about international society, you will know that one interpretation of all EU Heads of Government is essential in order to give the result of the referendum the most effective form. You can call that a goat path; so has the Prime Minister. Yeah, it wasn't easy. But do you really think that the political leadership in this country, this cabinet, is here to do this because of vague forces in the international world? Do you really think it has to do this? No. We have thought together about how we deal with this consultative referendum. The government has said in advance that it takes the considerations seriously and that it listens to the debate. All Members of the Chamber have referred to a number of studies and to the central elements that emerged in the debate. We have expressed this in a certain way. We didn't just do that, we did that with all the EU leaders. That was indeed an answer to the concerns of our people.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u212	I have a question of conscience for the Foreign Minister. To what extent have the Lower House elections played a role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u213	Zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, zero, If I followed your reasoning, the easiest thing we could have done was say: this is the result and we're just following what you're saying; automatically that means we don't look any further and file a repeal law. Wouldn't that have been the easiest thing to do? I hear a remark coming out of the Chamber. I don't know if I'm allowed to respond to that, but it was about the election results. The parties who have taken other positions have indeed not shredded any yarn at all with this result. I think it's all a little bit more serious than this. There's been a referendum. We take that seriously. We're looking at the results. It's an advisory referendum. The considerations have been taken seriously. Of course, you do not have to agree with the final weighing. However, I think it is rather folly to say that one group does take the population seriously and the other group does not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u214	The turning of political parties, that's popular polish. I must say, however, that the PvdA has not so strongly expressed its opinion on the referendum. However, there are several other political parties here that have certainly done so. Then there will be elections. This whole affair has been lifted over the election. Then the political parties begin to turn. Isn't that at least striking?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u215	Mrs Faber, I am here on behalf of the Dutch Government. The Dutch Government has seen this referendum, campaigned and taken the outcome extremely seriously. She then took the outcome of the debate internationally, took the concerns of the citizens seriously and came to this end. I see that this is receiving very broad support in this Parliament. You may disagree, you may oppose that association agreement and you may have a different view of the referendum, you have all the legitimate rights to do so, but I am not going to accept that one vision stands up for the people and the other vision does not. I have run out of steam in order to get a result that also takes the concerns of the people seriously. I could have chosen the easy way, but that is not the way we deal with each other, either in the Netherlands or in international cooperation. I had to get this off my chest for a while. In the direction of Mr Knapen and Mrs Strik, I can say that I have heard their message about monitoring and the provision of information to this Chamber. I also think it is a legitimate and legitimate question not only to take this very seriously, but also to take it seriously in the regular reporting on the implementation of the association agreement. This is not only true for this debate; even if there has been a referendum and there are concerns of the people, we have a duty to discuss this in the report. Mr Dankert asked me about the state of play on the Minsk agreement. After a sudden flare-up of violence earlier this year around the place Avdiivka followed a relatively quiet period. However, the intensity of the shelling has increased over the last two weeks, with at least five civilians and four Ukrainian soldiers dying last week. In the meantime, negotiations in Minsk have been difficult. The problem remains that Ukraine wants to see steps taken by Russia in the area of security and de-escalation of the conflict, while Russia first demands certain concessions from Ukraine. This also means that both parties must comply with the Minsk agreements. On 30 May, the Normandy meeting will be held in Berlin at the level of the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs. In itself, expectations of this are not high. However, I think it is important that the new French President has also said that she and Mrs Merkel want to be very active in this. Given Russia's role as the instigator of the conflict, there is at least a special responsibility on Russia to take the first steps towards Minsk. At present, however, there is no indication of this. There is still no ceasefire and also heavy equipment has not yet been withdrawn from the contact line. For the time being, therefore, there can be no question of alleviating sanctions against Russia as far as the Dutch Government is concerned. As I said, this obviously requires obligations on both sides. I agree with the remarks made by Mr van den Broek on corruption. I would like to paraphrase him not only for stealing the poor or at least for the rest of the population, but also for the geopolitical side. My concern is that corruption spreads internationally through networks. That is why it cannot be separated from geopolitics. It is precisely this association agreement that is so important to help fight corruption. That knife does cut both ways. I would like to thank Mr Schrijver for his comments. The referendum law is being evaluated; he is right about that. So I will not make any more individual comments at the moment. Then there is the legal statement. This is always a dangerous argument because Mr Schrijver is in any case respected by everyone and I also believe that you can think differently on the point of Article 10. I'll give you the arguments why we did it the way we did it. That does not mean that it could not have been done otherwise. This has been a trade-off. In the note following the report of the House of Representatives on this bill, we informed the Chamber about the statement that the Netherlands will make on Article 10. So that's what we do the moment it's deposited, just to say it. That declaration will read as follows: Article 10 does not impose any obligations on the Kingdom of the Netherlands to participate in any form of military cooperation without prejudice to the obligations imposed on the Kingdom of the Netherlands for the European part as a Member State of the European Union. In the debate leading up to the consultative referendum, this was one of the main concerns, as we know. In concrete terms, this means that we have said that, unlike all other elements, which are therefore a joint declaration by all EU countries, this is a national interpretation of a matter that everyone thought was important. We found it useful to specify them for a number of reasons. In particular, we wanted to point out once again, also towards the Dutch population, that the Netherlands has no obligation to provide national contributions, personnel, equipment, expertise or a combination of them in the framework of the EU CSDP in the case of possible crisis management missions. In addition, the Netherlands will state in a declaration annexed to the Act of Approval that Article 10 of the Association Agreement does not create any obligation for the Kingdom to participate. The Dutch Contracting Party thus makes it very clear to the other Contracting Parties how the Netherlands stands in this regard. Again, you can think differently about it, but we thought that was wise. Let me add one thing: it's a kind of reinsurance, in case you don't trust what you agreed to. That statement is particularly relevant if ever it is decided that this is a completely theoretical notion, but it can never be prevented; it could be the case to decide on military cooperation by qualified majority. That's a theoretical possibility. I don't expect that. We're not for it either. Should it ever be decided, it is clear that the Netherlands is not participating. You could say that's why we put some extra locks on the door. Let me say straight away that we could have done it differently. However, we felt that it was important to make this clear to both our own people and to the other EU Member States and to make it clear in full, should there be any eventuality in future in the treaty that we know of and, for example, if a different type of decision-making were to be set up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u216	I agree with the Minister that this was indeed one of the issues on which there was a great deal of concern among the citizens and which may have contributed to the negative outcome of the referendum. I could have fully understood if the Minister and Prime Minister Rutte had not succeeded in addressing this issue in the joint declaration, but there is some talk about military cooperation in the document of the 28 EU Member States. It seems to me that it is very double-up. We note that what is being said here is not really the result of the Treaty at all. On the one hand, we also laid this down in the joint declaration; on the other hand, we may go further with a few nuances in a unilateral declaration. My fear was: does that not cause irritation to the other EU Member States at some point? To my best knowledge, there is no other party to the treaty that has made unilateral declarations in addition to the joint declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u217	Let me give you a double answer, but with a clear direction. 'Cause it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u218	Does the Commissioner have an interruption on the same point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u219	Yeah, if you don't mind, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u220	If it's up to this point, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u221	Let me start by saying that I still do not understand why a separate national statement had to be added to what was further laid down, but I have no objection to it either, so I am not making a big deal of it. I did not quite understand the text as it was formulated. It was said that there was no obligation, okay, no obligation to participate in crisis management operations decided upon under the Common Foreign and Security Policy. But what does "no obligation" mean? Does that mean that the Netherlands will never again participate in crisis management operations in or around Ukraine? Is that some kind of geographical separation we're putting in here? What exactly does it mean that there is no obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u222	I would like to thank both Members for their questions. The answer is there's no irritation. Of course, there has always been some irritation in the whole process as a result of the role of the Netherlands. We stood up for the Netherlands and said: you may find it difficult, but our people voted on it in a referendum. There is, of course, a little irritation on the part of others, who think: let us continue now, because it is geopolitically very important. But we have just taken the time to say that we wanted our interpretation to be fulfilled, I say to those who think it was all so easy. We have made it clear that this must be an interpretation of everyone. There is no additional irritation on this point. Again, with Mr Schrijver, I say that you can come to another, authoritative consideration. On the other hand, I share Mr Davignon's view: you have no objection to it either. We have found it politically important to make this clear to our colleagues in the European Union and to our own people. We have also done this for the eventuality that you would have other decision-making mechanisms in the European Union. That is not very likely, but there could be a different way of decision-making in the area of military cooperation, for example. In such a case, this is leading. That's just a lock on the door. You can think differently about that, but we try to close everything as precisely and as closely as possible to meet the concerns of the Dutch people. There is no geographical limitation. That's not the point. It is really about the fact that there are no obligations arising from military cooperation with Ukraine, but it is not about a certain geographical demarcation. It's about cooperation with a specific country. I would like to thank Mr Schaap for his comment. I agree. We need to dynamize and work things out. We need to involve companies. That is what we must actively pursue. I have seen this as supporting further initiatives that we have. I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for his group's support. I really appreciate it. It is a question of 'appropriate cooperation'; I think he used that term. I very much agree with that. That's a very good qualification. This does not mean at all that the SGP Group should agree in everything with all the government's ideas on the European Union. I am very aware of that, but I very much appreciate the support. I assume that the same applies to the Prime Minister. I come to Mrs Faber's points. Of course, it would be a bad thing for me to say falsehoods or if the government didn't speak with one voice. In the note following your Chamber's report, I informed you of the general rule applicable to treaty amendment. As the Prime Minister said, a new round of ratification is obviously needed when an EU Member State would like to amend the association agreement, if all parties agree. However, the UK's departure from the EU is a very different case. This does not require the amendment of the EU-Ukraine Association Agreement and therefore does not require further ratification. When the UK retires from the European Union, the Convention will no longer apply to the UK, but for the remaining parties it will simply remain in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u223	But the UK is getting out of the treaty, isn't it? That's a change, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u224	No, it's not. This applies to all matters relating to the UK. This is really another case. It does not require us to change the EU-Ukraine association agreement or its common interpretation. In that sense, it's been scorched shut. Mrs Faber can rest assured that I do not preach falsehoods and that the supposed difference is fake news. I come to Mrs Strik's contribution. I have already made a number of comments on what she has rightly said. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, in particular, has pointed very strongly to the fight against corruption, from the outset, in all the debates I have had with this Chamber. Hence the comments I have made on this. I agree with Mr Ten Hoeve: the honest answer is 'no'. I have to tell you the truth. I do not think there is a civil war in Ukraine. I think the difference of opinion might be in the following. Firstly, of course, every country in its history is meant to be diverse; let there be no misunderstanding about that. That has all kinds of historical backgrounds. If changes are needed in a country, they will always have to take place on the basis of international consultation and respect for the territorial integrity of a country. Without going into it very deeply late in the evening, I would also point out that I do not agree with Mr Ten Hoeve's qualification for this. Of course there are different populations in Ukraine, but it is far too simple to say that there is such a big difference between west and east. I would also like to draw attention to the results of the elections in Ukraine and to the large numbers who have opted for the direction of the association agreement and for the values represented in it. If that percentage were to correspond to the population in the east of the country, that would certainly not be the case. It is true that this is the case, and that is why the Minks agreements also mentioned that the form in which the territorial integrity of Ukraine is protected and then also the decentralisation, the transfer of power on certain aspects for certain regions, are now part of the political agreement. I think that's where we're getting back together. It is a valid point that Ukraine has also taken into account. Unfortunately, I have not been able to convince Mr Van Apeldoorn this evening. I tried, but it just didn't work out. That's too bad. We simply disagree on a number of points. Again, on the point of reprioritisation. First of all, he's right that the treaty hasn't changed. Secondly, given the concerns of the Dutch people about the outcome of the referendum, which could be misunderstandings, it was important to take away the concern that it might go the wrong way. A clear EU statement is therefore relevant and important. That's point number two. I didn't quite understand that whole point of reprioritisation. Everyone cares about the fight against corruption. Of course, that is implicit in Article 1. That is not the case with the fact that you can also say: we think that 4.7.8 is particularly important, and we are getting it out. We are also ensuring that all EU leaders prioritize this in policy. That's not a change in the treaty. You don't have to. It is important, however, when it comes to the concerns of the Dutch people. Mr Koffeman used the words "perception" and "reality." We have a different view on this. That's not gonna work. That's too bad. Nevertheless, I naturally appreciate the debate with him. I would like to say at the end of this debate that this is a very political and important dossier, where elements of international cooperation, democratic legitimacy and the voice of the Dutch people have touched each other. It is only understandable that different positions can be taken on all fronts. I hope that the House will at least be convinced by a large majority that the Dutch Government has done everything in its power to take that result seriously and at the same time to ensure that it can function in the interests of the Netherlands in a way which, hopefully, will also receive the support of this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-23-eerstekamer-9.u225	Thank you. I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday.
