ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u1	I welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. In this debate, two Members will make their maiden speech: Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven. After every maiden speech, we will give an opportunity to congratulate those who made their maiden speech. I have just heard that Mr Van Raak offers that Mrs Van Engelshoven is acting as the second speaker. Then after both maiden speeches we can do the congratulations in one go. First, I give the floor to Mr Koopmans on behalf of the VVD Group for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u2	Mr. Chairman. Who are you? Who am I? Who are we here in the Chamber? What are we all doing here? And why are we doing it? Those are the questions I want to answer. We are in a debate together today about adding an opening sentence to the Constitution. Such a general provision should explain how our country works. To do that, we need to talk to ourselves for a while. Mr President, who are you, apart from a very esteemed colleague? You stand with your dear colleague of the First Chamber on the roundabout of political traffic. Everything we do here is addressed to you first and only then to others. That makes you a central guardian of democracy. You are overseeing the rules of the political struggle. Those rules are essential. They find their basis in the Constitution. You are therefore not only a great colleague, but also a personification of the democratic rule of law. Mr President, who am I? I am an ordinary boy from Hoofddorp, who was lucky enough to be helped by a professor of human rights, Professor Schermers. He fought against leveling in education and wanted to give everyone, regardless of origin, a chance. He made me an international lawyer. So I know the rules of law. But I also know that rules do not exist without life, without participation, without solidarity and without trust. I was working on the constitution of the new Kosovo and I saw South Sudan being born nearby. I negotiated for peace in torn areas, such as Ukraine and Syria. As a result, I learned that a state cannot live on legal texts. The constitutions in many conflict areas are very well written. They are so beautiful, but what is mostly missing are the living reality, the recognition that people must be free, the clear belief in the democratic rule of law and the trust in each other and in the state. And, Mr President, I come to the question: what are we all doing here in this Chamber? I would like to reply: to contribute to fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. In this Parliament, we all know from personal experience how important fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law are. All Members present here have fought for this in their own personal way. That's what I'm relying on. I know. The core of the democratic rule of law is trust, trust that the rights of majorities and minorities are respected, that institutions are more than the people they temporarily populate, like us, and that democratic law rules live in the minds and hearts of people. Compared to all the conflict areas in which I worked, the Netherlands is of course a fantastic country with confidence. In my own Haarlemmermeer the people live 7 meters below sea level and yet everyone trusts that the government will keep us above water. That is because the Netherlands is a country of respect and consultation, a community of values of individual rights. Already in the First Free State Assembly of 1572 our distant predecessors spoke not only of Spanish oppression and participation, but also of freedom of religion. That shows trust. Yet there are serious concerns about trust in our country. People worry that the Netherlands will no longer remain the Netherlands, that mass migration will water our waters, that terrorism will tear us apart, that freedom of expression will become impossible, that we will no longer be safe to enjoy a free life and that everyone will be watched digitally, even by foreign states and also by citizens and businesses. The Dutch are concerned about whether their rights, their fundamental rights and their democratic rule of law can continue to exist in a changed world. They are concerned about whether the Netherlands remains the Netherlands. The VVD wants the Netherlands to stay in the Netherlands. We strongly support the principle of equivalence. We stand for personal freedoms. We are tough on terrorists and extremists. We are working on security, against mass immigration and welcoming and rapidly integrating those who may be here. We therefore demand newcomers to embrace our values and our Constitution. It would then be useful for us to make it clear in one sentence what the Constitution stands for. It is true, our Constitution speaks for itself. He does what he says, but it's all very technical. Our Constitution does not explicitly state what it stands for. If he did, it would also be easier for Parliament, for us, to review new laws against the Constitution. If we add that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, we will be able to keep new legislative proposals against that fierce light. We therefore support the addition of a short opening sentence, a general provision, to the Constitution. It is not necessary but desirable. In our country, it is a good thing to consciously give change a place, but this must be done in a way that strengthens good and not in a way that raises doubts about what is already there. This is the case with newcomers, and it is also the case with a new provision in the Constitution. The VVD therefore only wants an opening line on what the Constitution does. It does not want a legally binding text on how the Netherlands is. The Netherlands is the Netherlands. We don't have an identity crisis. We know and we feel what the Netherlands is, and that is not to be understood in a constitutional article. The general provision should therefore be limited to what the Constitution does. It must be sober as the Constitution is. Although the VVD attaches great importance to the Christmas party, the general provision should not become a tree in which each political party will hang its own Christmas ball. On my personal journey from the desert to this Chamber, my dear friend Mr Ten Broeke was an indispensable guide. I hope that his realistic foreign policy can also guide our policy on the Constitution. Let us be modest in our objectives, but assertive in our resources. Let us do what works out of conviction and conviction. I have tabled an amendment. The government proposes as a general provision: the Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. On the other hand, my amendment proposes that the Constitution should guarantee fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law. With regard to the government's proposal, I would like to say: 1. Maintaining the order of the Constitution; first fundamental rights and then the democratic rule of law; 2. state that fundamental rights are not subordinated to democracy and that therefore fundamental rights cannot be based on fundamental rights; 3. To reconcile the proposals of the government, the State Commission and others by not talking separately about democracy and the rule of law, but about the democratic rule of law. The democratic rule of law is more than the sum of its parts. Finally, why are we doing all this? My answer is because we all, here and outside, believe in fundamental rights and democratic rule of law. Because we respect each other. Because, even if we disagree, we respect each other and wish each other well. Because we trust each other. Because we have confidence in the Netherlands and we want to strengthen that trust in the Netherlands together. And because we all want the Constitution to say that the Netherlands must remain the Netherlands in our own way. Mr President, and, through you, everyone, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you for your maiden speech and congratulations. Before I suspend the congratulations, I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van Engelshoven on behalf of D66 for her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u4	Mr. Chairman. Such a first time speaking from this chair is special and asks yourself for some reflection. Then what's that first message you want to give me? At The Hague City Hall I was often characterized as thoughtful; a little less of the easy oneliner and a little more of the well thought out words. I hope to keep it up in this house, because I believe that words have meaning in our society, especially when they are used by politicians, and therefore should always be chosen with care. In this respect, I find myself in a very bad mood with this legislative proposal, because today's debate is about whether words are well chosen. I shall come back to that later in my contribution. Our Constitution plays a remarkably small role in the daily lives of most Dutch people. I can remember the first time I became aware of the Constitution and its significance in our daily lives. I grew up in Belgium and when I turned 18, I had lived there long enough to get Belgian nationality, but then I had to give up the Dutch, on the basis of the Dutch Federation Act, which is based in Article 2 of the Constitution. I didn't do that then, but I would have liked both. A year later, I studied in Nijmegen and studied our Constitution and state law. The Van der Pot handbook, edited by Donner, still adorns my bookcase. The fact remains that most Dutch people are not daily aware of the Constitution and its significance. More than half of the Dutch cannot appoint what is contained in Article 1 of the Constitution. One in five Dutch people have no idea what the right could be in that article, whereas that article, on the principle of equality, was put in the front for symbolic reasons. Then there is something wrong and we must find solutions. As is well known, D66 welcomes this in constitutional review. Nothing makes the Constitution more vibrant and relevant than being able to appeal to it in the fight for justice and equality. Surely it is foolish that anyone who is now challenging legislation can rely only on European laws and not on our own Constitution, and that is why discussions in our Parliament are more often about the conflict between a law and the ECHR than with our own Constitution. Another element in this distance from the Constitution is the difficult and lengthy amendment procedure. That's how we're still dealing with the telegraph secret. But if the Constitution were to be easily modified, what guarantee would it provide? The debate will soon come to a preamble or a general provision. Strikingly, the Constitution does not designate the most obvious: the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. Why that is not the case, I do not know, but perhaps the Minister has done historical research on it. In the meantime, there is a need to introduce the Constitution with a preamble or general provision. The Constitutional Commission made a proposal for this as early as 2010. On the basis of the English motion, the government has started to work. Amazingly, the suggestion of the State Commission has been ignored and the government itself has come up with a proposal. The State Commission proposed to include: The Netherlands is a democratic rule of law. The State Committee proposed that this be worked out with subsequent sentences which established that the government respects and guarantees human dignity, fundamental rights and fundamental principles of law, and that public authority can only be exercised under the Constitution or the law. The government is proposing as an alternative: the Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. Why is this wording? The Council of State didn't see a good reason for not following the state committee. I don't see it yet either. This wording raises more questions than answers. First of all, how can the Constitution guarantee this? Do we, all 17 million inhabitants of the Netherlands, not together constitute the democratic rule of law? Does democracy not exist only by the grace of its democratic participants, by those who are guided by democratic principles and whether or not forced by public authority, remain within the lines of the rule of law? Shouldn't the standard addressee, the group to which the general provision is addressed, be larger than the Constitutionalist? Not to say that the Constitution guarantees this, but simply to say that the Netherlands is a democratic constitutional state. Will it not make the Constitution and our democratic rule of law more lively when everyone, not just government and parliament, is involved and can feel involved in the task of making the Netherlands a democratic rule of law? In that case, why should the guarantee function of the Constitution be lacking, as the government states in the explanatory documents? Is it not enough to say that the government guarantees fundamental rights and therefore actively respects the Constitution? I don't think so. If the Minister is really concerned about the guaranteeing role of the Constitution, can it be inferred that the government supports the proposal to allow a constitutional review? More than a general provision in the Constitution would really increase the guarantee function. Then I come to another element to safeguard fundamental rights, namely the conditions for restricting them. Human rights treaties often opt for substantive grounds of limitation, necessary in a democratic society and not beyond what is necessary. The lightest means available is chosen. The ECHR is a good example of this. Our Constitution chooses a different path. The most important requirement is that the limitation is done by law. Is such a procedural requirement sufficient to guarantee fundamental rights in a material and factual sense? I doubt that this would go through the democratic stress test. I'll come to a conclusion. As you may have seen, I have tabled an amendment to accept in general terms the recommendation of the State Committee. In doing so, I am implementing the aforementioned English motion, which called for the inclusion of a general provision which stresses that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law, supplemented by further rules. This motion was then supported by the PVV, the Labour Party, the Christian Union, the SP, GroenLinks, the Animal Party and 50PLUS. This could also create a majority in this Chamber. I'll give it to the minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u5	Congratulations on your maiden speech. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that those present can congratulate Mrs Van Engelshoven and Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u6	I give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u7	Mr. Chairman. I should like to congratulate Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven. You're not really a MP until you've been standing here. You have done so now, and on an issue that is very important, namely amendment of Article 1 of the Constitution. Well, there have been maiden speeches on smaller subjects. I think we are also dealing with two peacemakers, Mrs Van Engelshoven as a character and Mr Koopmans even as a profession. So I look forward to working together in the future. Our Constitution is a messy document, and it is also a somewhat coherent piece that bears the traces of a long history. The present Constitution contains a number of elements of the Constitutions of 1798, 1814 and 1848, provisions which were often interpreted in a very different way at a different time, such as the position of the King, who was virtually omnipotent in 1848, but who now plays almost no political role at all. All within the limits of almost the same Constitution. Our Constitution is not a political programme, as in some other countries, but above all an referee's booklet, which lays down the rules of our democracy, our rule of law and our fundamental rights. Because it is an referee's booklet, we do not have a foreword or preamble, where sometimes shared values are laid down in other countries, because these values give rise to political contradictions, because parties think differently or because they are formulated in such a general way that everyone agrees with it but they do not really have control anymore. Today we are discussing a proposal to add to the Constitution a general provision stating that the Constitution will henceforth guarantee democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. That sounds very sympathetic, but it is also remarkable, because of course the Constitution has been doing so for a long time. Chapter 1 even has the title of Fundamental Rights. Chapters 2, 3 and 4 are about democracy and Chapters 5, 6, 7 and 8 are about the rule of law, but in fact all the provisions of the Constitution are about democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. Can the Minister indicate exactly what this general provision is going to add? When you read the explanatory statement, you can see that they weren't very keen on it at the Ministry. I think it is a confused and uninspired piece that I have received from the Minister. I must also say quite frankly that the Minister did not come up with this all on his own, of course. This has been an assignment to the Minister from the First Chamber. He wanted a proposal before 1 October 2012. I would therefore ask the Minister why we are discussing this proposal for a constitutional change now, just after the elections, so that the second reading can only be followed after the next elections. The Minister states that this general provision in the Constitution is important because it would be of a normative nature. But why should this provision be more normative than the other provisions on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights? The Minister himself also says that the provisions, I quote,'may seem to be abundant', but that they refer to the provisions on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights which are then dealt with in the Constitution. I think that only confirms their abundance. Or does the Minister see it differently? The question is also for whom that general provision is normative. According to the Minister, we, the Constitutionalists. So, if I understand correctly, with this general provision, we impose standards on ourselves, which are already elsewhere in the same Constitution. This general provision in the Constitution has no higher effect than other articles and will not be further developed, I read. Nor does it change the interpretation of the other articles of the Constitution or the interpretation of other laws. Let me be clear: our democracy, our rule of law and our fundamental rights cannot be sufficiently protected, especially when we also see political movements that are increasingly calling for anti-democratic measures. However, this can only be done if these general provisions are more difficult to change than the existing provisions in the Constitution, and that is not the case. This general provision does not make it more difficult to change the Constitution. It is therefore not an additional protection against anti-democratic proposals. The Council of State does not say for nothing that this proposal is above all symbolic. I'm rounding up. The motion of the First Chamber referred to the report of the State Committee which proposed the inclusion of a general provision in the Constitution, but the State Committee did make a completely different proposal. Why didn't the minister choose the same wording as the state committee? Has the Minister discussed his proposal with the Upper House? I can easily imagine that the senators had something quite different in mind with a general provision than what the Minister is now presenting to us. When we are discussing an amendment to the Constitution, it is not very common for amendments to be tabled. I can see four amendments now. Maybe that shows that the discussion can go either way. I ask the Minister what exactly his proposal adds. I also ask for his opinion on the proposals contained in the four amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u8	I have a quick question. Mr Van Raak asks a lot of questions to the Minister, such as what he thinks of the wording of the state committee. Would the SP Group want the wording of the state committee to be taken over and finally given a place in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u9	I do not necessarily welcome a general provision, because it is unnecessary, but we are standing here because the First Chamber wants something. I want to show respect for the First Chamber. The First Chamber has given an order to the government, referring to the State Commission Constitution. If we do anything, I would prefer to do something as close as possible to the formulation of the Constitutional Commission. So we're actually just doing the homework the First Chamber gave us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u10	I hope that this can count on a little more enthusiasm than simply carrying out a motion from the Chamber across the street. It is about the Constitution, about all of us in the Constitution; it is a provision that binds us and brings us further. As far as I am concerned, this is a provision which is a little bit more than a very delicate list, precisely in the context Mr Van Raak himself described of the Constitution, namely that it is a bit incoherent and sometimes a bit wretched. Against that background, can I expect a little more enthusiasm from the SP Group for a very warm formulation that we all get a little happy about?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u11	I'd like to get warm for it, but then there's got to be something that really makes a difference. I do not think that the wording put forward by the Minister makes any difference, so I am not happy with that. I do not know why we need to change the Constitution for that. You're gonna change the Constitution if something's really going on. Tomorrow we'll deal with a law on the secret of letters. In the meantime, we've invented the Internet. That might be a reason to change the letter secret a little bit. That's fine, because then something really is going on. We have never had a preamble or a general provision, perhaps precisely because it is messy, incoherent, also the force of our Constitution. It is a historical document that has developed in the course of history. The interpretation of provisions has also been developed over time. I already mentioned the rule on the King's position. The Constitution has not changed so much in this respect, but the position of the King has changed radically. I think that the strength of our Constitution is that it is an referee's booklet, an organic document that has developed historically and that we seem to be getting along reasonably well with. If we add a normative provision to that, I would prefer to do so in the form of a preamble rather than in the form of a first provision of the Constitution. If we do that, what should be in that preamble? My party goes for human dignity, equality, solidarity. Well, I think my group would be very pleased with such a preamble. But perhaps the preamble by Mr Segers and the Christian Union Group looks a bit different. That is also one of the reasons why we have ever decided not to go into a preamble. Whether it leads to perpetual political confusion, due to different interpretations, or it is so general and meaningless that everyone can agree to it, but it becomes a bit of an embarrassing display, because it says nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u12	I understand Mr Van Raak's critical questions. Do I also understand that he is still considering the amendment I have just tabled?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u13	I'm actually planning to do this. I don't like the Minister's proposal. Let me just say that. I see that four amendments have been tabled. One gets a little closer to the Supreme Court than the other. Let us start the debate with the Minister on exactly what he wants and what he wants to do with the amendments. I'm also curious to hear from you later what you want. Let us then see if we can find a wording that does more justice to a first article of a Constitution. But, as far as I'm concerned, we're doing that out of respect for the First Chamber that asked for it. I think we could do without this exercise, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u14	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to endorse all the words that Mr Van Raak has already said to Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven. They both made a very nice, thorough and personal maiden speech, and even added a maiden amendment to it. There was also a reference to the Handbook of Dutch State Law of Van der Pot-Donner, which I also have in my closet.But besides that, Koopmans' Confederation of State Law has shown me the law of state. I don't know if that's related to these Koopmans anymore. I see he's shaking his head. Nevertheless, Koopmans and the law of the state remain inextricably linked for me. Mr Van Raak referred to the Constitution as a mess. That sounded a bit negative, but that sounded a bit more positive at the end of his speech. There was something about an organic growth of such a state system, of such a constitution. I happen to have the book of De Savornin Lohman on our constitution with me. It also contains a nice quote, a nice formulation of a mess. "Each constitution is the product of a combination of facts and circumstances, not of a pre-designed system or theory." So there was something about "it's not: we have a nice theory now, now we're going to make a constitution and that's it." In fact, this is also mentioned in the 2010 report of the Thomasses State Commission, where the proposal we are discussing today is still, to a certain extent, a result of discussion in the Second and First Chambers. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs says that the Constitution as an anchor of the constitutional system consolidates and forms itself as a result of often lengthy discussions and developments. That was what the cabinet presented six years ago in response to the report of the State Committee. Indeed, I think that is a beautiful wisdom contained in it. The Constitution also contains the wisdom of generations. It also means that the SGP has always followed the line of demanding that the Constitution be amended and that it only wants to do so if it proves convincingly that this is really necessary. It's not enough that there are nice sides or advantages to it. We are therefore not in favour of the proposal, as measured by this criterion. In fact, there is now a kind of table of contents which is incomplete and which does not really provide clarity. For those who are not ready, I am referring to the text of this proposal: 'The Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. I would like to make it quite clear that it also matters where that text is. If it were in a leaflet attached to the Constitution or in a constitutional programme, it would be fine. It is certainly something that is highlighted in the Constitution. However, we are talking here about a provision with legal force. By putting it first as a general provision in the Constitution, it will be given a different status in one go. There was a report from the Constitutional Commission in which such a proposal was made. The Lower House initially followed the government in not following this suggestion, but the Upper House found that somewhat unsatisfactory. Then, at the request of the First Chamber, the Minister worked out three variants: a concise, a medium and an extensive one. The result is, in the end, a proposal which is very concise. It is clear that Minister Plasterk himself was not very enthusiastic about this idea either. That is at least from a few quotes from the extensive debate he had in the First Chamber on the inclusion of the general provision. He said, and I quote: 'We have had a good Constitution for 200 years without that general provision'. Furthermore, the Minister said: "I have argued here, as have my predecessors, that the government is not convinced of the urgent need for its inclusion." He also said: 'The question is not whether there is any objection, the question is whether it is necessary to add it.' I must confess that the government's initial reasoning actually appealed to us and convinced us. My spirit in the First Chamber did not support the motion either; the SGP Group said that it does not need such a general provision. Our group has previously expressed sympathy for a preamble, i.e. not so much a general provision of a legal nature, but rather a prior word. This could include a reference to the values that have been stamped out by our country and a number of key concepts of our state system. However, that is not the choice that has been made. We have opted for a general provision, a specific provision with normative force. In the opinion of the Council of State, it is striking that a few apparently uncontested words, 'the Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights', who does not agree? However, there are many legal questions that can be raised. This is also the case in the case of judicial review and so on. There are questions about what the provision means for the interpretation of the Constitution. The concepts as such can also be interpreted very differently, thereby reducing the power of expression. For example, the concept of the rule of law is often used in debates on terrorism in a very different political way. The concern is that the somewhat more political interpretation of such a concept can in this way influence the interpretation of the Constitution, of the Constitution. Of course, you can also say that if you argue for austerity in the Constitution, such a sober provision is not appropriate? To be honest, however, I find the provision as it now stands to be lean rather than sober. I see the Minister shaking his head again: it is never good either. You can use a certain austerity, with such a provision convincing because of its brevity. However, you may also ask yourself: doesn't she say too little now and do you not miss all kinds of parts now? The College of Human Rights now also says that the conciseness and choice of words makes a somewhat unambitious impression. With all the value we attach to fundamental rights, to democracy and to the rule of law, it strikes me that something like the constitutional monarchy is no longer reflected in the general provision. Is that something of the second garnish? Is that less important to our state establishment? Certain key concepts such as "human dignity," "right to life," "power separation," "independence of the judiciary" are not reflected in such a general provision. In order to avoid legal problems, the SGP would prefer a preamble rather than a general provision. But I also agree with Mr Van Raak. If we put on the table our wishes for such a beautiful, colourful, powerful preamble on Christian values that have left a mark on our country and on the important role of the House of Orange in our country, then I see others nervously shoving on their seats. Then we get to the very point: don't do it or do it right. Can we do well with so many different opinions when it comes to the question of what you want to say in such a preamble? There are some of those proposals that apply: the longer you think about them, the more enthusiastic you get about them. Frankly, the opposite is true of this proposal: the longer you think about it, the more lions and bears you see on the road. You are inclined to say that the current text of the Constitution is not so crazy. Should we not continue to highlight some of the vital concepts in fine debates on the Constitution and in information on the Constitution? I like to agree with everyone who says that. In the past, we have also adopted motions for resolutions on this subject. Let us also highlight the key elements and foundations of our constitution in education and the like, in citizenship and other subjects, and let us try to make pupils enthusiastic about them. Finally, I come to the constitutional review. In Mrs Van Engelshoven's speech, this subject has already taken a look around the corner. In this Chamber we have already said a lot of things about this. There are even proposals on this for further discussion, but it will never happen again. These proposals seem to lead to a dormant existence. I would very much like to return to the idea put forward by my colleague in the VVD Group in the previous period at other times in this Chamber. That colleague got me excited about that, too. This is the idea, apart from the debate on judicial review, that Parliament's review of the Constitution should in any case be made more clear in the coming period. We would very much like to consider with the existing and also with the new spokesmen constitutional issues how we can give this more substance and colour in the coming period. So much for my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u15	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Van der Staaij for his kind words about Mr Van Engelshoven and myself. As a final point, he mentioned further coloring of the parliamentary review. The proposal that we have put forward in the amendment is an opportunity to further implement that parliamentary review. Parliament can then test the concept of the democratic rule of law, which is not currently enshrined in the Constitution. How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u16	I understand the idea, but if you could check whether legislation is in line with the democratic rule of law, then I think that the same political discussion that we are already having in the terrorism debate would emerge, namely whether it is a violation of fundamental rights and, if so, whether it is permitted in the system. If you want to give more substance to this review, you will get to the concrete provisions that are a little further down the road in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u17	Thank you. Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u18	Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would like to congratulate Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven on their maiden speech. They have put it forward with passion and care, on an important subject today. I look forward to working with you. There has been a lot of talk in this House about proposals for general provisions in the Constitution, often on the recommendation of a state committee and always without success. In the Chamber, the need for a sober constitution prevailed. For GroenLinks, the Constitution is our country's most important document, which captures our core values. It is therefore important that the Dutch values, standards and principles are expressed as best as possible in the Constitution. In that context, we are also considering this bill. Sobriety is important, but not when it comes to the foundations of our society. That's what today is about. Today we are talking not only about a legal document, but also about a document with important social values. At first, the government was not in favour of general provisions or a preamble, but at the request of the First Chamber, the broad-based motion of Mr Engels............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. A broad political appeal from the First Chamber is an expression of a social need. We thank the government for the proposal now before us. GroenLinks does have questions about the chosen wording. The English motion called for a general provision to be formulated, taking into account the opinion of the Constitution Committee. However, we see that austerity has slipped back into the proposal. Why was this wording chosen in relation to the wording that the Constitutional Commission itself put forward? As far as social needs and signals from society are concerned, we think it would be a good idea to include human rights in the text. We have tabled an amendment to this effect. This is what we want, because human rights are broader than just fundamental rights. Human rights are about the rights enshrined in the international conventions. The Constitution is the starting point for anchoring these human rights in our national legislation. As far as we are concerned, the general provision needs to be clear about the fundamentals of our society, and as far as GroenLinks is concerned, human rights are an integral part of this. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u19	It sounds nice, but can you give an example of a human right that is not a fundamental right?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u20	We are intertwined, but we are concerned with making the connection with the treaties. That connection is clearly visible. At the moment, I can't come up with a concrete example, but it's really about that connection. In that sense, it is important to record this. I hope you support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u21	I'd like a connection. That is why I am asking this question. You say that human rights must be included in addition to fundamental rights, because human rights are much more than fundamental rights. I would like to go with you in that, but I can't imagine very quickly what rights they are. I ask again which human rights are not fundamental rights. Otherwise, your reasoning doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u22	I must remain guilty of the answer to this question at the moment. I'll take a look at my pieces and I'll come back to you bilaterally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u23	The confusion that arises indicates that this is not such a good suggestion. Whether we want a sober or a richly dressed Constitution, we will have to be very clear. Then we cannot discuss whether human rights are equal to fundamental rights. Is that a larger or a smaller category? Is there overlap or is it the same? I would point out that human rights are partly interpreted abroad. So it's possible they could have a different effect. I'm just saying there's room. There is already some confusion. I think we all agree that the Constitution must be clear. If we include a general provision, we must avoid the need for such questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u24	I'm gonna insist on doing it anyway. I think it is very much necessary to include the link with the treaties. In the second term, I would like to return to the question of an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u25	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to congratulate Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven on their maiden speech. I'd say welcome in our midst. DENK stands for our Constitution. Unfortunately, however, our Constitution is under increasing pressure. The Dutch Order of Lawyers investigated the electoral programs of political parties. The results weren't mild. Some parties ignore the Constitution, international treaties and the rule of law. DENK is very concerned about this. Let me give you a few examples. The VVD violates human rights and wants to make people stateless. The CDA discriminates because it wants to tackle the foreign funding of only Islamic organisations. The SGP also discriminates because it advocates a position of preference for Christians. The PVV programme is a complete attack on our Constitution, the rule of law and democracy. Geert W., who is not present today with his group, wants to delete Article 1 of our Constitution. What does Article 1 say? "All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on grounds of religion, belief in life, political orientation, race, gender or on any ground shall not be permitted." Yet here we have a party in our midst who wants to abolish the fundamental principle of our Constitution. We have talked for hours in this Chamber about anti-democratic groups, but the most concrete threat to our Constitution and our democracy is here in the Chamber, the second largest party. A number of other parties, who talk so-called very decently and beautifully, support them. I think we need to recognise the danger of them breaking our Constitution. The next four years DENK will also work for this and fight for this. I call on everyone to join us, because DENK guards the Constitution. DENK stands for our Constitution and our rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u26	That's good to hear. Mr Öztürk accuses many other parties. We may, but we also have Article 90 in the Constitution, which states that the government is promoting the development of the international legal order. DENK voted against a motion calling for the Turkish Government to complain that democratically elected parliamentarians are in prison there. So, doesn't DENK have a little bit of butter on his head? He says he is in favour of the Constitution, but does not want to promote the international legal order and is actually okay with democratically elected parliamentarians in prison in Turkey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u27	That's the first Turkey question I get here. There is a total obsession with Turkey; Turkish politics is being discussed here, I think, more than in the Turkish Parliament. I think that developments in Turkey are being brought forward better in the media than in the media in Turkey. I'm so sorry about that. DENK is not here to support all of the SP's motions. You have a judgment on another country, Mr Van Raak, and you think that your judgment should be fully supported by DENK. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u28	No, but you say that the SGP and the PVV, and I know a lot of what other parties called you, are all in breach of the Constitution. They would have no respect for the Constitution. You may find that, but I can see all butter dripping off your head. Indeed, when it comes to the Constitution, it is also about promoting the development of the international legal order. Then it is strange that you say on behalf of a party: 'I am a Member of Parliament; I am democratically elected; I am standing here because of the rule of law, but I am not prepared to promote the rule of law in other countries, in this case Turkey, as stated in the Constitution. Parliamentarians who have been democratically elected can stay in prison, as far as I am concerned." Then I find what Mr Öztürk says a bit of a you-bake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u29	The Dutch Bar Association has examined the political parties and their programmes and came up with this advice. I don't. It says what all these parties are doing against the rule of law and the Constitution. Moreover, if the SP considers the rule of law and the Constitution to be very important, it should consider how it intends to continue its relationship with a terrorist organisation. I think you should first see, Mr Van Raak, that unfortunately the SP in the Netherlands still does not regard a number of terrorist organisations as terrorist organisations and that it also cooperates with them wherever necessary. If you want to point out something to others, first look at your own behavior over the past few years. I hope that behavior changes from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u30	Mr Öztürk continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. DENK welcomes the proposal to add a general provision to the Constitution. We must protect our rule of law, our democracy and our Constitution from the haters of the PVV and from anyone who talks about the PVV. A general provision clarifies how our Constitution should be understood. It makes it clear what we stand for as a country and protects us from parties who bludgeon the Constitution for their own good. But this requires more than the cabinet's proposal. DENK believes that this proposal does not go far enough. The Human Rights College says that the proposal makes an unambitious impression and that the directional nature is low. The Council of State calls it mainly explanatory, symbolic and says that at most it has a weak normative meaning. My question to the Minister is therefore what he thinks of these remarks made by the College of Human Rights and the Council of State. Why was such a short, sober text chosen? What are the comments made by the Council of State and the Human Rights College in relation to the government's objective of giving the Declaration normative force? In short, isn't the proposal really an empty shell? The biggest loss for DENK is that there's nothing in the statement about equivalence. According to the Dutch Bar Association, several parties have discriminatory proposals. If they continue like this, these parties will create first-class and second-class citizens. It can't be! That is why I ask the Minister: why is the statement and the explanatory statement not paying attention to the fact that all people are equal? Wouldn't that be a welcome addition at a time when even the VVD-premier "pleer op!" calls against people with a migrant background? "Our values are under pressure." Yes, our values are indeed under pressure: there are parties who make proposals in their party programme that go against our Constitution. Yes, our values are under pressure. DENK believes that, at a time when the Constitution is under pressure, we need to be much clearer about what we stand for. DENK therefore sees much more in the extensive variant proposed by the minister's officials. This gives teeth to the general provision and makes it clear that the Netherlands is a democracy, a rule of law with controlling powers and a government that respects fundamental rights and abides by the law. This also makes it loud and clear that everyone is equal before the law. What exactly is the reason why the Minister does not go along with the comprehensive proposal? With a more comprehensive statement, we are avoiding discussion and are we still clearer about our Constitution? Isn't that a lot more solid? I have therefore tabled an amendment to adopt the extended proposal. Finally. In addition to the discussion on a general provision, knowledge of the Constitution is of great importance. Several studies show that this is not the case. Too many people in the country don't know what our most important document says. What is the government going to do to solve this problem? We think that, as we become more aware of this, there is increasing mutual acceptance in the Netherlands and that we are getting closer and closer together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u32	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven. It was nice to hear how their personal life history sounded in the contributions. From the Hague City Hall to South Sudan and Kosovo, it all sounded in the Chamber in a debate on our own Constitution. Thank you for that and very much welcome in our midst. "Puts a general provision above the Constitution', was one of the recommendations of the State Commission's report of 2010. At first, not much happened to that recommendation. The whole report was more or less put aside, but at the request of the First Chamber there is now a legislative proposal that responds to the recommendation on a general provision. The Christian Union Group welcomes this. With the addition of a general provision, we can strengthen the normative and declaratory nature of our Constitution. In the Christian Union, there has been a long-standing desire to do so. The Dutch Constitution is unusually sober from an international perspective; Mr Van Raak already recalled that. The Constitution has a legal and symbolic function. The latter could be better expressed. With a general provision we make a start with this. This also fits with the tradition we had on that point, before the 1848 Thorbecke Constitution. In the birth papers of our State and in our first state regulation is what is necessary about who we are. That was the question Mr Koopmans asked us: who are we, who am I? This is the subject of the Act of Abandonment, but also of the Batavian State Order. It is a pity that parts of those texts are not included in the 1848 Thorbecke Constitution. For example, this could have been done in a preamble. Several representatives have expressed their support for this, or have expressed the wish that something like this would ever precede our Constitution. The Christian Union has always been in favour of this. It is a little too much said that the text proposed by the cabinet is still going down that road. The rule is really too sober for that, but it's a start. I do have questions about the cabinet text. It has chosen a text that is even more sober than the proposal made by the State Committee. It merely states that the Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. Isn't that very skinny? It only describes itself, what the Constitution does, while the rest of the Constitution, and also the proposal of the State Committee, describe and standardise reality outside that Constitution. Can the cabinet reflect on that? I do like the fact that democracy and the rule of law are also included in the cabinet's proposal. Those two are connected, they're connected. It makes it clear that guaranteeing freedom requires more than a decision of half plus one. We know parties and regimes that win elections, think of Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt or Hamas in Gaza, but have nothing with the rule of law and have nothing with freedom. In a democracy embedded in a rule of law, majorities protect minorities. Fundamental principles of law are respected in a democratic rule of law. A democratic rule of law seeks to strike a balance between personal and common freedoms, between responsibility and justice. That is the only way we can live together in a pluralist democracy such as ours in a peaceful way. It is good that we make this explicit in the Constitution. Then why is the cabinet treating democracy and the rule of law separately and calling them separate and not together? I also like the fact that fundamental rights are mentioned, but that happens again very bald. At the heart of the recognition of fundamental rights is human dignity, a universal principle which plays a major role in international law. I would therefore like to know from the cabinet why human dignity does not come back in the current text of the provision. The Constitutional Commission has put forward a sober text for the general provision, which at the same time gives more substance to the intentions which the Cabinet seems to have. The state committee included human dignity in its text proposal and supported it extensively and convincingly in its report. I quote the committee: 'In fact, all human rights, including the fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, are to a greater or lesser extent an expression of the principle of respect for human dignity'. Hence my sub-amendment to Mr Van Engelshoven's amendment to incorporate that concept in the light of the committee's opinion. Why isn't it just connected to the text of the state committee? Why did the cabinet itself start crafting a short text? I think that is a missed opportunity to give more substance to the general provision. Nota bene, this is about the opening of our Constitution. The ideal of the Christian Union is a Constitution that radiates self-awareness and identity, without our Constitution becoming the Christmas tree in which each party tries to hang its own political balls. That was the fear expressed by Mr Koopmans. In addition to a legal-normative function, it should also perform a declaratory function. It should say something about who we are and what we have in common.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u33	I would like to ask Mr Segers another question about the term 'human dignity'. He was right to point out that it does not come back in my text. Can he imagine that human dignity is not included in the terms 'fundamental rights' and 'fundamental principles of law'? As far as I'm concerned, these include human dignity. That's how you usually see it in the international constitutional catalogs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u34	I quoted the state committee: everything that is mentioned is actually an expression of human dignity. That is so fundamental and so important that if you let such a sentence precede the Constitution, human dignity should also have a place in it. The state committee has presented a very well-balanced example to us. That is why I would prefer not to go shopping there, but to adopt that wording, no matter how complicated it may be. We hear it today, because everyone has their own wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u35	I share with Mr Segers the importance that he attaches to human dignity. He says, somewhere in his own right, that it is an aspiration, something we all strive for, where the Constitution is a means that we as mortals can use to bring that goal a little closer. If we were to add human dignity to the general provisions, and for that, 'the Constitution guarantees human dignity', would we not be a little too megalomaniac? I understand that Mr Segers is not. If we did, would we not actually say that our Constitution guarantees human dignity and that we are therefore able to achieve and fully shape human dignity in any way? Should we not, on the one hand, distinguish between what we can do, namely to adapt the Constitution and say what it does and what it intends to do, and, on the other hand, what our higher purpose in life is?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u36	In life, in fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u37	In this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u38	In this room. We already have our hands full with that. It was Mr Koopmans who formulated it so beautifully that it was our job to keep laws coming through here against the clear light of the Constitution and against, for example, a value as human dignity. It also obliges us to ensure that human dignity is respected in our legislation and in what we decide here. That's his job and so is my job. If we write that down, it's not megalomaniac. It is therefore an expensive duty to keep our legislation against that clear light. It is precisely because human dignity is so fundamental and because the State Committee on Human Rights, like the one that did not come up with it, perhaps it would have been a little curious to ride this in with a balanced opinion and judgment, I would say that there is no reason to take it out. In fact, I support her advice. I agree, precisely because human dignity is so fundamental.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u39	Everyone here shares the desire for human dignity. However, does Mr Segers not agree with me that there is a difference between constitutional values, such as fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, on the one hand, and more generally human philosophical values, such as human dignity, on the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u40	I believe that political values or rights ultimately have a deeper origin, namely deeper values such as Straight with a capital letter. If we want to make a just law here, it will ultimately find its origin in law with a capital letter. That's something more fundamental. If we seek good care here, it goes back to that fundamental value of human dignity. So there is a relationship between the political rights that we are coining here and the deeper values that we are looking for now and which can bind us together. I think human dignity is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u41	Mr Segers continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u42	I have just said that we must look for these common values as an expression of who we are and what we have in common. They must express something about our common values, such as human dignity, which we have just talked about, and equality, charity, tolerance, stewardship and freedom of faith. That is not something we are dealing with for a moment per amendment. This calls for a broader social debate. So I would much rather have a broader general provision or a preamble, but the consideration of this bill is not an opportunity to discuss it further. We are already pleased with the first start made with this bill. I therefore regard it as a first step, which offers opportunities for further work to strengthen our Constitution and our democratic legal order. That is why, as far as the Christian Union is concerned, it is being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u43	Mr. Chairman. "The Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights." That is the general provision. However, the CDA Group is convinced that the Constitution has been doing so for a long time. A general provision confirming this in abundance is therefore, in our opinion, not a meaningful addition to the Constitution. The CDA attaches importance to a sober Constitution, which includes only concrete, binding legal rules. The CDA Group therefore wonders what the added value of a general provision in the Constitution would be. What specific problem will this solve? The government mentions in the note to the report "the connection of the explication of the above three principles..." democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights..." to the explication of the guarantee function of the Constitution." Can the Minister give an example of a constitutional article that could be interpreted differently in the light of the proposed general provision than in the current situation? The CDA Group wonders whether democracy would be more resilient with a general provision in the Constitution. In the report, the VVD Group raised the question of the extent to which the general provision contributes to the prevention of the legal establishment of a non-democratic state body in the Netherlands. The government responds in the note to the report, and I quote, that 'the Dutch legal system in itself contains sufficient safeguards to prevent the overthrow and abolition of democracy as a key element in the self-cleaning capacity of democracy. There is no room for groups that abuse democracy to overthrow and abolish it." That leads to the following questions. So what is the added value of a general provision in this respect? Is there not, in general terms, the risk with this general provision that these new differences of interpretation arise? The Council of State also underlines the role of the courts in the application and interpretation of the proposed provision. The judge will interpret existing legislation, and then not legislation in a formal sense, in accordance with the Constitution, also in the light of the proposed general provision. What could that mean, according to the Minister, for the interpretation of Article 2:20 of the Civil Code, which allows political parties to be banned? Can the Minister comment on the possibility of giving more substance to the concept of democracy under Article 2:20, so that anti- or undemocratic parties can be banned earlier than before? Apart from Article 2:20, the Council of State also writes that such a provision could lead the court to consider that more demands should be made on political parties within the framework of democracy. Could the judge, I ask the minister, also impose demands on the democratic structure of a political party, for example the number of members that a political party should have minimal? The general provision has first and foremost the constitutionalist as a standard address. Can the Minister give us more examples of a standard in the Constitution whose constitutionalist is the standard address? The government also states that the proposed general provision lays down the obligation for the government and the States-General jointly as a constitutional institution to guarantee democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. But the government immediately adds that this duty already exists to a great extent. Can the Minister indicate exactly what the added value of the proposal is? The general provision also lays down a standard for the constitution. But what standard is that exactly? The government states that the general provision to some extent increases the burden of proof for removing subjects from the Constitution or for bringing them into the Constitution. Can the Minister go into that again? What does the general provision, for example, mean for the constitutional article on the method of appointment of the mayor? What framework does the general provision create for what is and does not belong in the Constitution? And what exactly is the lower limit that the Minister is talking about when he writes that there is a lower limit to what you do or do not regulate in the Constitution? Mr President, it will not surprise you: the CDA Group is still not convinced of the usefulness, let alone the need for a general provision in the Constitution, after examining the note on the basis of the report. The CDA Group has received even more questions about the effects of such a general provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u44	Mrs Bruins Slot said that everything contained in that general provision is already in the Constitution. If I were to ask the faint question where that is exactly, I think it would be difficult to verify precisely because the Constitution is not a document that is so accessible. Let us look at the functioning of the constitution in, for example, a country like the United States, where everyone knows articles and amendments. There it really is a living document. Our Constitution and its functioning are stark at that. Could this not be a very modest step in the search for what binds us together and what identifies us as the Netherlands, namely a number of common values that bind us together, just after a campaign that was about identity, about who we are, about integration and about what binds us together?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u45	I look differently than Mr Segers at how our Constitution lives. Discussions such as those on freedom of expression and on respect for privacy are being held regularly not only in the Chamber but also in society. It shows that the Constitution is indeed a living document. The nature of our Constitution has always been sober compared to the American Constitution, with concrete, binding legal rules. The CDA would like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u46	I have outlined in my contribution that this has not always been the case and has traditionally been the case. Since 1848 we have had a very sober Constitution. Before that, we had much richer documents, covering rights, duties, freedoms and the way in which we relate to each other. That was a much richer text. We could fall back on that. I would like to ask the question one more time: in an era in which we are looking for what binds us, in which we really need to reinvent ourselves and make ourselves clear who we are, should the Constitution make a small contribution to this? Then why does the door go all the way close to the CDA Group and is it not willing to think about how this step can contribute to the search for self-awareness?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u47	On the contrary, our Constitution contributes to this because all the provisions currently contained in the Constitution are concrete, binding rules of law. A general provision is bound by a certain symbolic, declaratory character. It doesn't add anything. It may even increase the scope for differences of interpretation between the fundamental rights that are now in it. As far as the debate on the existence of our fundamental rights is concerned, I find it interesting that we are discussing Article 13 of the Constitution, which deals with letter secrecy and telegraph secrecy, later this week. That is precisely what makes our Constitution a living whole because we now want to make it independent of technology. So I really do look at it differently than Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u48	Mr. Chairman. Dutch democracy and the Dutch Constitution are sneaking out by a sneaky and premeditated mechanism that lives in the endless offices of Brussels, in the five-star restaurants of Strasbourg and in the skyscrapers in Frankfurt. More and more of our sovereignty is being taken away from our national parliament. This national parliament is increasingly subject to supranational papers issued by the European Union, the European Parliament and the ECB of Mario Draghi. The cartel parties are fully involved in this. The European project, as it is called, is nothing less than the total undermining of the democratic rule of law, cultural diversity and the magnificent individuality of our old nation. The cartel parties are accelerating that process now where they can and always bowing to all the Eurocrats' powers. During the election campaigns, they speak tough words; a day later, they give in again to the EU and to Juncker. Over and over again, politicians promise to protect our sovereignty from the attacks by the Brussels monster, by supranational career politicians, international human rights courts and legal collectives who think from their global quasi-world order, an order in which the Dutch people no longer have a significant identity and no significant voice. Democracy, our democracy, is in danger of disappearing, because everything that really affects our lives is now totally or partly under EU control: immigration, remigration, our money, our finances, our foreign policy, our border controls, our trade agreements, our army. Article 81 of the Constitution stipulates that the adoption of laws shall be carried out by the Government and the States-General, implying, of course, that it is up to ourselves and therefore not the EU to make our laws. Yeah, that's how our democracy is set up. But in the meantime, she's hollowed out. While we, the Dutch people, said by an overwhelming majority on 1 June 2005 no to the proposed European Constitution, which then became commonplace, thanks to Jan Peter Balkenende's CDA. While the Dutch people said no on 6 April last year by 61% to the dramatic Association Treaty with Ukraine, and also this treaty was simply steered by the House of Representatives. The House of Representatives not only removes itself, it removes the sovereignty of the Dutch people. What she's supposed to represent, she's squandering on all kinds of collectives of international bureaucrats. She's giving away things she can't give away that she doesn't own at all. In order to avoid further erosion of our sovereignty, we need a preamble to the Constitution which establishes our fundamental democratic rights. Therefore, FvD submits an amendment to this bill which reads: 1. The Netherlands is a democratic state of law. 2. The Dutch people are sovereign, they themselves adopt the laws to which they are subject through elected representatives and referendums. It is the highest time that we are going to protect our democracy from the political cartel and a perfide intelligencesia, which apparently has been caught up in international company games. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we establish in the Constitution that the Dutch people are sovereign and that they themselves, through elected representatives of the people and through national governments, adopt the laws to which they are subject by referenda. As Gert-Jan Segers said just now: in 1581 we declared our sovereignty in the Plate of Abandonment. I've got it right here with me. It inspired all countries around us to also sniff out the spring wind of self-determination and establish democratic constitutional states. We're still sovereign. We are sovereign, and no one else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u49	There's always talk about cartel parties. I assume people at home are following this debate. Hence this question: which parties in this Chamber are these cartel parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u50	The cartel parties are the parties that are not present in this Chamber today, which at least left their seats largely empty. These are the major parties of the VVD, CDA, PvdA and D66, which have determined the governments of this country over the last 30 to 40 years, and which basically support the attack on the nation state, in particular, the structural undermining of national sovereignty from government to government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u51	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u52	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u53	I was done. I am pleased to note that the rest of the Chamber seems to agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u54	Then we have arrived at the end of the first term from the side of the Chamber. I shall give the floor to the Minister for the first time to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u55	Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Koopmans and Mrs Van Engelshoven on their maiden speech in the order of speakers. It was a pleasure listening to them. My compliments also on the content. We are now discussing an amendment to the Constitution. Tomorrow, too, I'm already advertising, and there will be a constitutional change, namely of Article 13. I hope to see many of you again. I've got a lot of compassion for you, but you're a missionary now, so I guess it's gonna be quiet. I can tell you that this is not the case. Firstly, I have taken over a very large portfolio from my colleague for Wonen and Rijksdienst. Secondly, things are going on, like two proposals for amending the Constitution this week. That's serious business. Before I come to the present proposal, let me say a few words about the nature of our Constitution. Those who are watching now may have been able to retain the word 'clutter' in Mr Van Raak's contribution. I want to take over that in the sense that man is a product of evolution. Man is also a mess. That word was used earlier in 1977 by François Jacob, a molecular biologist and philosopher. I realize that I am probably the only biologist in this debate with state lawyers, who are all waving their textbooks here. He then published an article on evolution and tinkering, crafts, in which he argued that man is the product of all kinds of events in his development that can be found in the final product. I do not want to go into detail, but I will give you one example. When someone wonders what is the function of the nipple in men, the answer is none. Those things are there as a product of how it happened. I will stop mentioning examples from biology, but you understand my point. You can see in the Constitution elements that you think: well, if we rewrite it, we might write it down differently. But through evolution, and in this case through legal history, we've been brought to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u56	I suspect that Mr Van Raak would like to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u57	I would like to know what the Minister thinks the men's nipples are in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u58	I don't want to shoot myself in the foot too much. I agree that if we sit down again now, we might write the Constitution in a different order or choose a different word here and there. Occasionally it is necessary to amend the text. Tomorrow is Article 13, the letter secret, in which communication is protected by letter, telephone and telegraph. It's just a quick search for what the telegraph is as a means of communication. We don't mean the morning paper. It is absolutely essential that there should be a change in this. What is now before us is a proposal for the inclusion of a general provision. As I was finely rubbed in by one of the speakers, when asked in the First Chamber, I initially wondered whether this was really necessary. I must honestly say that when I hear the first term of the Chamber, the views go in all directions. I am therefore thinking back to the moment when I said: you will have an almost theological discussion about a text that will ultimately have no major legal effect, which is also the answer to Mrs Bruins Slot's question. It is not the case that if you adopt this amendment to the Constitution, suddenly things should not or should not have been allowed to happen. It does indeed have a declarative, normative and symbolic character. Anyway, the First Chamber insisted on reconsidering this at the time. I then made a note with different variants in which you could include such a general provision. That can be extensive or short. The cabinet has looked at this again, knowing that a majority in the First Chamber.... and if you take the numbers with it perhaps also in the Second Chamber... would find it desirable to do so. The cabinet then concluded, and I shall come back to this in a moment on the basis of the amendments that, if we want to do it already, we want it to be a brief, general statement. Otherwise, you will be hung more and more in that Christmas tree. Then the question is, if you're gonna take this, why don't you answer it? So we finally opted for such a short version. I have even said in a first written reply: these are now the building blocks, if there is a need for such a general statement in the House of Representatives under the Constitution, then I await the initiative. The First Chamber said at that time that she would appreciate it if I would take the lead. In the end, I have done so from the point of view that I have just given: I do see the symbolic value of a general provision which says what is then working out our Constitution in more detail, and I am also prepared to table such a proposal here. Its text is familiar with the Chamber. It is indeed short: 'the Constitution guarantees democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights'. If I have heard the contributions from the first term, then there are not many groups that want to get close to this wording. I have therefore also wondered: I can, after hearing the first term of the Chamber, take this back to the cabinet for reflection. But then, in this cabinet period, we walk out of time. And it has been drawn so hard that it is a good thing that at least we have this debate together now. After the first term of the cabinet, we can always look at how much chocolate we can ultimately make of it. So I shall now turn to the proposals before us. Perhaps it would be best if I started with Mr Koopmans' amendment. That is quite close to the government's proposal as it has been put forward here. Mr Koopmans actually says two things in this amendment. First of all, he wants to change the order of things, in order to reflect the fact that fundamental rights must be paramount and "not subordinated to democracy," says the explanatory statement. Secondly, he would like to summarise the rule of law and democracy, which I shall come back to separately. First of all, let me say that, in the government's view, the order in which the three building blocks are listed in the general provision, namely democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, does not mean that one of the three elements is disadvantaged or pre-established. This also means that changing the order is not a major problem for the government, but I would add that. So if I leave the opinion on that change of the general provision to the Chamber, it is not because I think it is important to put these fundamental rights first, but because I do not think it is a problem. I also understand the logic of saying that it is then listed in the order in which it is then dealt with in the Constitution. So I understand. A little more complicated is the question of paralleling or linking democracy and the rule of law. For biologists, too, there is a whole library to read about: can you actually talk about democracy and the rule of law as two different entities, or are they inextricably linked? We also discussed this in the Cabinet. Even if you look at history, you can in principle see those two elements separately from each other. For example, the Roman Empire was a rule of law. It had written rights, it had the ability to defend you in a court of law. So there was a right to be heard. I think it's even part of law school to learn Roman law as a freshman. It was therefore a rule of law, but, at least in our view, it was not a democracy, because there was no universal right to vote. Conversely, could you talk about a democracy separate from a rule of law? In theory, maybe. After all, if you define "democracy" very scary, it is a system in which the majority decides. It may be that this majority does so without respect for the minorities that arise. Then it may be a democracy, but at least it is not a rule of law. There is also a different view on the latter. It is said that our modern interpretation of democracy is that it is only when the elements of the rule of law and human rights are part of it. I want to be a little practical about that from field K. I do not wish to make any mistake about the fact that both elements must be fully present, and that is why the proposal I have put forward has given rise to a separate designation of democracy and the rule of law. However, there are also other documents, international and human law, in which there is a democratic rule of law. I do not think that is a decisive objection either. All in all, the amendment tabled by Mr Koopmans remains close enough to what the government is trying to do to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u59	First of all, I would like to restore something I did not do in my first term, namely to thank my two new colleagues who made their maiden speech. It is rare for colleagues not only to make their maiden speech, but also to table amendments that change a legislative proposal far-reachingly. That is what my colleague from the VVD and my colleague from D66 are doing, and congratulations for that too. In fact, my colleagues are now hitting two birds with one stone. In the reply, the Minister just said that this general provision has no legal effect and is merely normative. However, the way in which the Minister has just explained the democratic rule of law in relation to democracy and the rule of law has implications for the interpretation of the Constitution. So I do not really understand why the Minister says that it is purely normative, because standards are, of course, also laid down in law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u60	We do not have a constitutional test; Article 120 prevents that. I'll get to that. What is in the Constitution binds the legislator, and that is what we ultimately are with each other. The question of the effect of such a general provision is to some extent also a question of the future psychology of the legislator. I think it has some symbolic value. If there is a proposal that would undermine democracy, there are undoubtedly other articles in the Constitution that are already contrary to that, but I think it can work normatively for the legislator if it is also contrary to the general provision by which our Constitution begins. So I see added value in that, but that is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u61	The Minister literally says: I see added value in that, but that is what it is. Why would a constitution that is so austere and lays down beautiful concrete binding rules of law, then pollute it with a general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u62	I don't like that. The general provision now before us is indeed extremely sober. There's criticism of that. We can talk about that later. Moreover, this provision is in line with similar provisions in the constitutions of a number of countries around us. I've had a very international comparison made. So it's not that bizarre. I do not think it is polluting, but I do not think that if this general provision is added to the Constitution, the earth will turn in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u63	I cannot turn that earth in the other direction either, but I would like to remind the Minister that this connection between democracy and the rule of law is an understatement of the need for such a general provision. In the Netherlands there was first a rule of law and only later a democracy. The other way around is that, for example, in the Middle East, I have just mentioned the example of the Muslim Brotherhood, but one can also think of Hamas in Gaza, where groups came to power in a democratic way, but had nothing to do with the rule of law. We ourselves have had discussions here in our country about what happens if 51% for a Sharia is an inequality between man and woman or non-believer and believer, which is contrary to our rule of law. If 51% so wishes, such an extra dam can help at the very beginning of your Constitution. It is therefore very important to keep these two very close together, if not inseparably linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u64	I would like to thank Mr Segers for highlighting the symbolic importance that this could have in practice. The follow-up question is, of course, whether or not it is democratically dependent on the rule of law as epitheton or not, or whether you are acting as a separate entity? The cabinet has chosen the latter, but my highly valued predecessor Ernst Hirsch Ballin has, I believe, published some of the reasons why, in his view, that is inseparably linked and you can take it as well as one concept. That is also a respectable view. I must also remain a little practical, because few speakers have brought in the proposal unchanged with great drum from all the speakers here the spokesperson of the VVD was closest to it and I can live with that change. I do not think it will necessarily improve, but I do not think it will affect the essence either, again, even with reference to the state-law literature which says that in our modern understanding of democracy and the rule of law these two are indistinguishably linked.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u65	Perhaps it would have been a good idea if we had had a little more discussion about this wording, because now we are at the end of the afternoon formulating our Constitution, and that is quite something. However, I would like to emphasise that link between democracy and the rule of law. That is indeed in line with the amendment and also in line with what the state committee has said. It would have been the easiest thing to do if we had taken that advice, but the Minister will talk about why he didn't do it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u66	First of all, I should like to comment on the comment about the afternoon after. I was rightly asked why it took so long. For years there has been a debate on every comma of this provision by state law scholars, but there will be a moment when it comes to the House of Representatives. That moment is now. I have already said in my introduction that I can imagine that, after hearing the contributions in the first period, decisions and votes will not be taken immediately. It also depends on how the debate develops, because I will not wish to extend any amended version of this proposal. The cabinet is, all things considered, in favour of a general provision, but a sober one. I will come back to that in a moment. In other cases, I would still like to have the room to rethink it in the cabinet. We now have the debate on the proposal as it stands. We're gonna have to do this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u67	The Minister explicitly mentioned human rights in the statement on democracy and the rule of law. Does he see human rights as an added value to our Constitution, which can also indicate its connection with the international treaties? Why did that even get killed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u68	There must be no misunderstanding that where the word 'fundamental rights' is used, which includes human rights, also in the international sense of the word. The objection to the ever-expanding of such a text is the following. To use a metaphor, I have sometimes said: if you have a small area and you find the border around it unclear, the tendency is to make that area bigger, but then the border becomes bigger and therefore the uncertainty. I don't think we're gonna win much by specifying this further. The answer to the question is quite clear: under fundamental rights, in the eyes of the cabinet, that is part of the legal history of human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u69	However, there are treaties that do not come back into our legislation. Would it not therefore be appropriate to state precisely the commitment to the Treaties, for example as regards the Convention in the context of the protection of the child? We have not enshrined this in our Constitution. Those are just the points I have just mentioned, also in response to Mr Van Raak, who are good enough to find the connection. Maybe the Minister has another suggestion. I'm open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u70	Then we fall into examples. In children's rights, you're going to name specific people. I do remember a number of categories. I'm not going to argue about that right now. The cabinet's intention is that "fundamental rights" include human rights, as enshrined in international treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u71	When I hear the Minister in this way, I find it increasingly difficult to understand why he did not choose 'the democratic rule of law' in his choice of text. He rightly says that democracy and the rule of law have different origins, but he also says that they belong together at the present time. A democracy that is not a rule of law is unacceptable in this country. That is what the Minister says in other words. But right now, when we are discussing the general provision, it seems to me that this is the added value of the general provision. This is the first time that we have recorded that normative statement in the Constitution. That certainly has meaning. That is why I do not understand the choice to separate democracy from the rule of law. Those things were indeed separate from each other once, but that is not the case anymore, and that is what we need to say now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u72	I understand the question. In the explanatory statement to the Koopmans amendment, it is precisely the word 'immers' under which I have put a dash. It says: 'democracy and the rule of law are inextricably linked in the Dutch state system'. That is also Mrs Van Engelshoven's reasoning. After all, they are, apparently, that is the case. But if you want to add a general provision to the Constitution, in my view you do not want it to be descriptive of what is happening, but then you want it to be normative of what should, in principle, be the case until the end of the day. If you want to do that, I think you have a slightly broader cover against all the misunderstandings by saying: no, democracy and the rule of law must be guaranteed in our Constitution; if there is a misunderstanding or something overlaps, then we always take it with us because both must be fully guaranteed. I therefore agree with the statement that 'apparently' or 'immers' in the Netherlands is actually a summary concept.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u73	I very much welcome the Minister's supportive words on the concept of the democratic rule of law. I would add that, of course, democracy can be seen separately from the rule of law. The Minister himself gave the example of the Roman Empire; let me add nothing. The special thing about the Netherlands is, of course, that these concepts are so intertwined. Our Constitution is not a philosophical exercise; it is about what the Constitution does. So when we say that the Constitution guarantees fundamental rights and the democratic rule of law, we are talking about the special and uniqueness of the Netherlands. The question I would then like to ask the Minister is whether, in addition to his support for an alternative such as 'democratic rule of law', he also agrees that we should not talk about 'the Netherlands' in such a general provision, because we know what the Netherlands is. In such a general provision, therefore, we should only talk about the Constitution, as is the case in its original proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u74	Yeah, I agree with that last one. In this sense, this is a general provision which indicates that this will then be set in the Constitution and not a new standard to add other things to the Constitution. So I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u75	I would also like to ask about the interpretation of the concept of the democratic rule of law. If such an amendment were to receive a majority, it would appeal to me personally to choose 'democratic' and 'legal state' for these intertwined concepts. I would still like to hear from the Minister whether that has added value to what is already in the Constitution. Is there, therefore, a legal effect that is more than just how 'democracy' and 'legal state' are already regulated in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u76	First of all, it is precisely this point that has been discussed in the bosom of the cabinet. Those arguments were weighed. So this is not a whole new discussion for me. In this respect, too, it has been said in the opinions: do you have to do justice to the fact that these are two intertwined concepts in the Netherlands or do you have to step up them separately as elements to be guaranteed? In the end, considering everything, we chose the latter. Again, I also understand the other way of weighing that up. Is this aimed at any legal consequences? As I pointed out in reply to Mrs Bruins Slot's question, I do not think that legal effect will change, because it actually describes what the Constitution guarantees and does not intend to add new elements to which the legislator will then review its laws. In terms of visibility and also in the presentation of the Constitution, it may of course be important to point out to those who already find our sober Constitution a difficult story, that it essentially means that the Constitution guarantees this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u77	I can imagine that explanation, but that also means, in concrete terms, that it cannot be that a particular party would not be in trouble by now because of the provision in the Constitution, Mr Segers mentioned as an example a certain Sharia Party, but that this will suddenly be the case if you indicate in advance that the Netherlands is a democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u78	That's right. That was also Mrs Bruins Slot's question on the operation of Article 2:20 of the Civil Code. This amendment of the Constitution does not change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u79	What we are doing now is a bit of homework that we have received from the Senate, from the First Chamber, but we are talking about the Constitution. If you want to change the Constitution, you have to have a good reason. For example: the invention of the Internet, next to the letter; we will discuss it tomorrow morning. That is a reason to amend the Constitution, but if you change the Constitution and even introduce a first article when it doesn't change anything in fact and legally, do you have to deal with the Constitution in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u80	I would have liked to respond separately, but Mr Van Raak is now also touching on the relationship between the Lower House and the Upper House. There is, of course, an order in the legal definition. So it starts here. It is up to the House of Representatives to decide whether or not it feels in a majority, whether or not it is amended. Then we'll go to the First Chamber. In that order, we have to do it. I actually have to say this on the other side, but the right of initiative in the Constitution is, of course, with the House of Representatives, as is the right of amendment. In recent decades, both have been somewhat undermined by the novelle and the motion which invites the government to come forward with a legislative proposal. I do stick to the fact that the lead really lies with the directly elected Chamber of States-General: the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u81	That's good. The Minister is absolutely right, but I cannot escape the impression that the motion of the First Chamber and the way in which it was drafted were more like a mandate to the Minister than an invitation. It was an order to come up with legislation, not an amendment. In fact, she asked for the Constitution to be amended. That's one thing. I want to respect that, and I want to see how we can meet that request from the Supreme Court. My more general remark is that something really needs to be done if you are to change the Constitution. Changing the Constitution is not for nothing a difficult process with elections and a two-thirds majority at second reading. We have done so because we want the Constitution to be changed only if there is broad support for it, if it is really necessary and if developments give rise to it. Doesn't it also hurt the Minister's constitutional heart a little bit that we're going to change the Constitution with something that doesn't really change anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u82	It is important for the history of law and the future to emphasise that we are not dealing here with legislative proposals, let alone constitutional amendments, on behalf of the Upper House. Then our constitution would be upside down. A motion was adopted in the First Chamber, in which the government was called upon to do so, so I indicated that I would reconsider the position previously taken that it was not necessary to add a general provision. That invitation was accepted by the Cabinet. As a result, I have decided, considering everything, to submit a sober general provision to the Chamber. Moreover, the motion in which the government was invited to do so has been supported by the SP Group in the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u83	Mr Segers of the Christian Union referred to Hamas and the Muslim Brotherhood. Mr Van der Staaij spoke about Sharia and the like. The greatest danger, however, is here in the Chamber and wants to abolish Article 1 of our Constitution. To what extent is our Constitution armed against this? The PVV is now the second largest party, but it could have been the first and largest party. A number of people are chasing the PVV. To what extent are there parties in this Chamber who want to abolish our Constitution, our Article 1 on which the Constitution is based? Will the Minister investigate that? How can we arm our Constitution against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u84	Let me confine myself to the proposal before us. The abolition of Article 1 of the Constitution is unacceptable to the cabinet, so I would not see such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u85	Doesn't the Minister think that he should take action now or do investigations to stop those parties who want to do so in any way? If those parties grow larger, get more seats and parties like Christian Union and SGP could support them, we have a major disaster.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u86	In my view, this really goes beyond the subject of the debate. I am not going to play a game of this and, through an interruption of the present draft Constitutional Amendment, I am going to give an opinion on political parties. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u87	Mr Öztürk, you have already asked two questions. I note that you probably did not get the answer you wanted, but I would like to give you an opportunity to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u88	I'd like to address you, Mr. Chairman. If the Sharia, the Muslim brothers and other matters are asked, there will be a full answer. I want to expose a danger that is present in this house. Surely that should be possible in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u89	You asked your question. I note that you will receive a different answer than you probably intended. I also see Mr Koopmans on the interrupting microphone, but he has already interrupted on this point. I therefore propose that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u90	Before I come to Mrs Van Engelshoven's glowing speech, I would like to say a few words about the role of our Constitution and the constitutional test. Several Members have rightly pointed out that our constitution has no place in reviewing laws against the Constitution. Article 120 also states that. I also have a good memory and I can remember that an initiative legislative proposal to amend the constitution was indeed adopted at first reading. That bill was, I believe, submitted by Femke Halsema. On this occasion, it might be good to point out that Article 137 of the Constitution states that, following the first reading of an amendment to the Constitution, the House of Representatives will be dissolved, after which the newly elected House of Representatives will re-examine the amendment of the Constitution. A number of years ago it was pointed out that, in the short succession of the Balkenende Cabinets in particular, it was virtually not possible for the newly constituted Chamber to do so, because that Chamber had once again been dissolved and replaced. At that time, the Council of State was asked for an opinion on the way in which Article 137 should be read. At that time the Council of State said that he could indeed imagine that "de" should be read in the sense that this is done by the Chamber after elections, but that it could also be the Chamber after that. But it should not be the case that it remains to wait to see if there will be a Lower House that has a majority in favour of it. I would like to remind you that Mrs Halsema's successor, I believe that Mr Grashoff was Mr Grashoff, said a number of years ago: that is what is there, because there is now no majority for it. There comes a time when you must point out that, even if you use a generous interpretation of Article 137 of the Constitution, this proposal to amend Article 120 at first reading is no longer on the table. If there is a desire to introduce a constitutional test, it will have to be raised again by the government or by an initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u91	This is a pretty serious case. There is a change in the own-initiative constitution of Mrs Halsema of the Green Left Group. That lies here, while the Constitution states that the Minister says that, in my view, it is right or at least intended that such a proposal should be submitted as soon as possible after elections, preferably on the first day of the meeting. We now have this on the basis of the referendum law for a corrective referendum. In another context, I hope to speak quickly to the Minister before 1 May. But here is the question: what are we supposed to do with such a law? In my view, this is in any case contrary to the spirit of the Constitution. Is this not the time when the government itself will have to submit such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u92	The latter, of course, depends on whether the government is in favour of amending such a constitutional article. In fact, however, we can see that it was not due to the length of the Rutte II cabinet. Therefore, my conclusion is that, however narrow or broad you interpret Article 137 of the Constitution, this has not been dealt with by the House of Representatives at second reading, let alone adopted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u93	Can we not get another note from the Minister about this? What's his vision of that process? Could it be that Members of Parliament leave such an initiative constitutional amendment aside, or is it contrary to the spirit of the Constitution? What procedure should we have for that? Because it stings me too: you can't just leave a law like that. Is the Minister prepared to inform us of what would be a proper procedure in technical terms in such cases?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u94	We're standing here now, so I'll do it here. It is not only contrary to the spirit, but also to the letter of Article 137 of the Constitution, because that simply says: the newly constituted House of Representatives. Again, you can stretch the concept of "the" something by saying that if that Chamber is sent home very soon, it can also be the Chamber after that. But that's gonna end someday. That's the Council of State's permanent explanation. The government joins in as well. I believe that the end of this initiative proposal has long passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u95	Mr Van Raak has just made a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u96	Yeah, but what are we gonna do with that? It has now become an orphan constitutional change. That is, according to the Minister, not only contrary to the spirit, but also to the letter of the Constitution. So what do we do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u97	I've actually just noticed that. If there is a new need to change the constitution on this issue, that path will have to be restarted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u98	About the same point. I took up the pieces, namely the report of an AO on 11 April 2012, in which this was discussed. Mr Van Raak and I were there. Then we asked the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance what progress was made on this bill. Then she said that there was no majority, but that she would reflect on it. In fact, this is another constitutional revision that follows the discussion of that state committee. I would also like to ask whether the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance would like to give a ruling in the second term. Then perhaps we can also draw conclusions on how this bill goes forward, and whether she wants to withdraw it. I agree with the Minister that it is not possible for this to be picked up again and that it is said that we are going to finish the second reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u99	I do not know whether it needs to be withdrawn in the technical sense. It reminds me of that scene of Monty Python with the parrot: this parrot is no more. I think that without active action, the real view of the cabinet is that this amendment of the Constitution is no longer on the table at first reading, because that should have been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u100	Technically speaking, it's a Chamberpiece, with a number. A report has been submitted somewhere. I think it would be good for legal certainty and clarity for everyone if it were neatly off the table and not stuck somewhere in the air, saying that it was automatically dropped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u101	I'm actually getting ahead of myself. If it were to be discussed here, my view would be that this proposal is no longer on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u102	Just a moment, not about the trial, but about the content. You choose the wording that guarantees the Constitution. Do you agree with me that if you want to shape that guarantee function that is now only available by the Constitutionalist, a constitutional review would not be appropriate? Then you really give substance to that guarantee in the Constitution and make it possible for those who feel that they are being violated in their fundamental rights to have recourse to it. Would it also make sense in that wording, which you choose, to say that one can actively appeal to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u103	This would be contrary to Article 120 of the Constitution. That's what I stand for. We have all made promises or oaths on that, as it is. This means that the general provision now before us is merely an appeal to the legislator to ensure what is contained in that general provision and not an entry into proceedings with other bodies. Then you can have a discussion or you want to change Article 120, but the government does not have a position on that at the moment. I believe that, in the past, our legal predecessors have been neutrally advised on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u104	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u105	That brings me to Mrs van Engelshoven's amendment. It does indeed opt for a more extensive variant of that general provision. The government's not for that. If the Chamber chooses to do so, I will really take it back to the cabinet, to see if we would still consider this general provision desirable. I would like to mention a few arguments. First of all, there will be a number of questions of interpretation. If you are going to add human dignity separately, the question is whether human dignity is already enshrined in fundamental rights and the rule of law. If you add these, perhaps in abundance, aren't there any other elements that you might want to add to a plethora of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ This also applies to additional elements that are selected. For example, you leave unnamed the principle of legality, the separation of powers or the independence of the judge. And then the question is: if you do include a general provision which summarises all the important elements of our rule of law and our democracy, why not add them? I admit that the State Committee had a more comprehensive general provision, which Mr Segers asked for. However, this was in the context of a proposal in which the Constitution was taken on board on a number of other points. Those other points have not been taken up. The government is not in favour of taking over only that general provision in the extensive variant. Then I'll come to the standard address. The aim is indeed to maintain the austerity of the Constitution in this respect. So that is another declarative provision that binds the constitutionalist, but it does not provide a separate review point for the court to say, for example, that a waterboard has acted contrary to the general provision, or something of that nature. That's part of the government, too. Moreover, this standard address is also found in the wording of the Constitution of Norway and Finland. In the northern part of Europe it is therefore not unusual to include such a general provision. All in all, I am not in favour of extending the general provision. I think this is really the limit to where we want to go. This also applies to Mr Segers' sub-amendment No. 11. Mr Öztürk has tabled an amendment on the extensive variant, namely No. 8. The same applies to this. Finally, there is Mr Baudet's amendment, No. 12, which adds to the general provision that the Dutch people adopt laws by referenda. Actually, that's not right. The Dutch people adopt laws through representative democracy. I know that a constitutional amendment was adopted at first reading to introduce the corrective referendum. It was adopted recently at first reading, but has not yet reached the Official Journal. That is why I reject the amendment to item No. 12. I'll take a look at some of the questions I haven't answered. Mrs Van Engelshoven asked a question about a historical study. Several reports dealt with the possibility of a preamble, for example in that of the National Convention in 2006. I was a member of it as a simple citizen at the time, as was Mr Van Raak. I met him there, too. In addition, there is the State Commission's 2010 report. In the end, however, the structure of a preamble was not chosen. I've already answered the question if it's not a little shaky. Mrs. Bruins Slot is hanging the other way. She wonders whether it is really necessary to do so. I recognize that, because that was also my initial position. I'm not hiding that. Having heard all the debates, I think that a sober general provision meets the wish to summarise symbolically what our Constitution guarantees. I call on the House to support this proposal. Perhaps there is room in the austerity for the CDA to accept the proposal before us. However, I can see from Mrs Bruins Slot's body language that this may not work. I have already spoken about Article 22. It has been asked whether the general provision will have consequences for the appointment of mayors and Commissioners of the King. The answer is negative. The general provision does not affect crown appointments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u106	However, in the note on the report, the Minister speaks of a lower limit on what is and does not belong in the Constitution, and he also indicates that that general provision also says something about that lower limit and can therefore also affect the issues that you may or may not take out of the Constitution. My question is therefore where exactly is the lower limit of what is and does not belong in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u107	There is a debate on whether the crowning order of the mayor should be constitutionally established or whether this is the initiative bill of, among other things, D66, which may be made by the ordinary legislator. The government has so far been neutral in this respect. So I would actually like to limit it to that. The point made by Mrs Bruins Slot does illustrate that, of course, you have to assess and assess at a time what protection through the Constitution needs and what the Constitution can leave to the ordinary legislator. As far as this example is concerned, I find it difficult because we will then be in the middle of an ongoing debate where, strictly speaking, the discussion on the method of appointment, namely crown appointment, and the question of whether the method of appointment should be fixed in the constitution or could be confused in an ordinary law. So I'm gonna stay out of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u108	But the Minister himself is creating this problem, because he himself wrote in the note following the report that the coming of this general provision addresses the fact that there is a lower limit to what is in the Constitution and what is not in it. In the first example, in which I ask the Minister what exactly is the situation, he cannot give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u109	Then I'll give you that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u110	What about all the other topics? Where is the lower limit which the Minister himself writes is now where he is talking about the general provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u111	I'll answer that. I believe that the deconstitutionalisation of the appointment of the mayor and the King's Commissioner is not contrary to democracy, is not contrary to the rule of law and is not contrary to fundamental rights. This is without prejudice to the question of whether you do not think there is a reason to include it in the Constitution. I am not going to do that, but there may also be other reasons for wanting to introduce something into the Constitution. You cannot say, even looking around us, that the countries where there is no crown appointment are not democracies or states of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u112	Before there is such a general provision, we can theoretically get everything we want from the Constitution, as long as we follow the legal procedures. Now, however, the Minister points out that with the advent of this general provision, which can no longer be incorporated into the Constitution, all things can no longer be incorporated into it. If the Minister is talking about this being some kind of festive interpretation of our Constitution, then the question is whether this is the case when the Minister himself addresses the fact that there has now been a lower limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u113	That's not a proper representation of what I said either. I am not saying that there has now been a lower limit, because otherwise I would have had to say 'yes' to the question of whether this had major legal effects, and I did not say that. I say that the lower limit of democracy and the rule of law is already present in various places across the Constitution, but I nevertheless believe that it has a useful, normative and symbolic value to underline this in a general provision. In reply to Mrs Bruins Slot's question, I have said that I expect that in the future too, if anyone would like to move in the direction of democracy with their gripping fingers, there is an additional argument to say that the general provision states that the Constitution guarantees democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u114	The Minister continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u115	I actually think that I have answered all the questions that have been put in my direction and that I have discussed all the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u116	Thank you to the Minister for his first-term reply. Is there a need for a second term? I see Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u117	In view of the fact that there are so many different amendments, I did hear support for elements of mine, but there were differences.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u118	Thank you for this proposal. Let me look at the spokesmen from the other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u119	Congratulations on your support. We are working on the Constitution and a new Article 1. We have a motion from the Senate, a government proposal and six amendments. I think it's very messy. The Constitution is messy, but the way we deal with the Constitution should not be messy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u120	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u121	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u122	My group also supports the proposal to continue the debate at a later date. I would add that we are not in a hurry to do so, because after the first reading, we need to have a Chamber disbanded before a second reading can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u123	My group supports the proposal. It seems to me very sensible to deal with this prudently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u124	Support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u125	My group supports the proposal, but it should not be the case that the major parties meet separately to discuss the amendments. It would be good, also for the major parties, if we were to discuss this together, to do so with all parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u126	Thank you. I note that Mr Koopmans' proposal of order is being generously supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-11-tweedekamer-15.u127	The bill will be rescheduled for the second term at a time to be determined. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber.
