ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr. Chairman. "'I prefer to focus on the residents of Fort Orange. They need help. They need help. You can say that you want to close the campsite but you must first have a plan for the people who stay there."', says district agent Marijn van Zundert. That's what hits the nail on the head. Does the Minister agree with me? There must be a structural, human solution for obsolete holiday parks that are slipping. AToday reported about it and the series on SBS also showed it. Is Fort Orange a campground or a slum? Poverty, decay, prostitution, arson and crime. Crime needs to be tackled. This must be done in every neighborhood where it occurs, including at Fort Orange, which even has its own district agent. They say "just close" but simply closing campsites like Fort Orange is not a solution, because where should the innocent people who live there now? Where does the Minister intend to let the families with children who have nowhere to go now? Most people at Fort Orange aren't criminals, but they're being watched. They are criminalised and rejected by their address for insurance, applications and internet connections. In fact, a number of people have been placed by the municipality itself on Fort Orange. How can municipalities not take responsibility for their inhabitants? How is it possible that municipalities will willingly send vulnerable residents to these places? Will the Minister ensure that municipalities no longer send people to holiday parks because there are too few affordable homes? What structural human solution does the Minister for Fort Orange see?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Beckerman raises a serious problem that not only plays on Fort Orange but on several holiday parks in the Netherlands that are no longer profitable and that is where people end up for permanent residence, for which those parks are not intended anyway. There is late maintenance, sometimes insufficient maintenance of public order, poverty and drug-related problems, sometimes crime, unsanitary conditions, nuisance for others and so on. So that is something that needs to be dealt with. Several departments are working together on this. There is indeed an aspect of Social Affairs, but of course there is also a hard V and J side to it, namely the failure to tolerate crime. We also support municipalities and often together with provinces from national government to try to tackle the problem. To give you an example: the municipality of Putten has 56 holiday parks and that municipality is simply not big enough to do all that on its own. We also do programs. I mention the successful programme in the North Veluwe, the Vital Holiday Parks programme, which we do together with the province of Gelderland. Mrs Beckerman has also specifically raided Fort Orange in the municipality of Zundert. I tried to reach the mayor today, but he wasn't in the country. Well, I did talk to the city secretary. It feels well supported by the various departments. He also cut me that there's definitely a social component to it. In the local management team there is good cooperation between the various departments, the municipal administration and the province to deal with the matter. A situation has arisen which cannot continue in this way. So it's clear on the retina and they act on it well too, that's my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u4	"'Despite their hopeless situation, it remains impressive to see how some residents make the most of it."' That's a quote from Dennis van der Ghost. He is presenter of the program Fort Oranje: camping or cavern district. In that programme he also shows many examples of people who are doing everything they can to make the best of it. Like Bibi, a cheerful 77-year-old man with an accordion who lived in an ice cold, broken, crappy caravan. A man who recently managed to remain incredibly positive about his age and the circumstances in which he lives. Bibi has been helped by now, but many others haven't. As the Minister says, this is indeed not just Zundert's problem. This type of campsite also houses families, sometimes with very young children. National coordination is needed so that people do not continue to fall between shore and ship. I hear the Minister say, and rightly so, that this is a problem that several departments need to be involved in, but I do not hear the Minister become very concrete. We are talking here about people who often do not have a working shower, people who have to live with holes in ceiling and floors. They're people in deep poverty, in debt. The mayor, who cited the minister, pleads for hard work and closure, but where are the people who are not responsible for crime?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u5	Let me say first of all that these holiday parks are meant for temporary residence. They were never built or intended for permanent habitation. That should not be the case at all. There must be interest in what led people to sit there. I know that Minister Asscher has already been working twice in this particular camp and has therefore shown commitment from SZW. On the other hand, around that park and other parks there is a criminal situation that you cannot tolerate, because that leads to undermining and an oil spilling effect on people around it. If something happens, we need to think carefully about alternatives. Of course, local government is at the forefront of this, but we will support local government wherever we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u6	The Minister reiterates that he wonders how people could have gotten there, but I insist that a lot of people have just gotten there because of their congregation. They have no other solution. Those people have no use for tough words or lip service; they only need concrete solutions. These must be human solutions, because most people sitting there are not criminals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u7	I confirm that, but there are also people involved in criminal activities. Mrs Beckerman gave a list herself: prostitution, crime, drugs. Of course, it can't be a safe house for crime. So both things are the case and there must be work on both fronts. That is why it is a good thing that there is a team that tackles this issue in its entirety, with a modest contribution from national government, a contribution from V and J and a contribution from Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u8	You know what I don't get? How is it possible that people, regardless of their motives and the question why they want to register permanently at a campsite? The mere fact that they do so can lead to a form of address fraud. It may also be the result of the desire to engage in all kinds of illegal activities. Such a campsite is not intended for permanent habitation. What measures does the Minister take to prevent permanent registration at a general address on which a campsite is located?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u9	I told you, these holiday parks aren't meant for permanent residence. The starting point of the BRP, the Basic Registration Persons, is to report as accurately and correctly as possible from where someone lives. That registration in itself therefore has no enforcement purpose, but serves purely for the purposes of registration. However, measures must be possible; that is the point at which they are intended. The adoption of measures is for local government, supported by the departments, where necessary. These measures could be in the judicial sphere.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-06-06-tweedekamer-4.u10	That brings us to the end of this oral Question Time.
