ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-eerstekamer-4.u1	I ask the Members to stand up. On 20 April last, Saskia Stuiveling, former senator of the Labour Party, died. She was only a very short member of the First Chamber: from 10 June to 11 September 1981. But as a member and president of the General Court, it has had a decisive influence on the administration of the country for decades. Saskia Jenne Stuiveling was born on 3 May 1945 in Hilversum. Her mother, Mathilde van Vierssen Trip, was a writer. Her father, Garmt Stuiveling, was a famous professor of literature and poetry. After completing the Municipal Gymnasium in Hilversum, Ms Stuiveling went to study Dutch law and business studies at the Dutch Economic Hogeschool in Rotterdam. She chose this combination very consciously. She knew early on that she had a life in the public service and she wanted to ensure that the achievements of business were also used for citizens. After her studies, Mrs Stuiveling worked for the Association of Dutch Municipalities. In 1975 she became a policy officer for Mayor Van der Louw in Rotterdam. That gave her the opportunity to learn the political profession and to work for the city with which she felt so strongly connected. After six years, national politics beckoned and switched to the Binnenhof. On 10 June 1981 Mrs Stuiveling was sworn in as a member of the First Chamber. Only three meetings could she attend. Even before she could make her maiden speech, she was appointed Secretary of State for the Interior in the Van Agt II cabinet in September of that year. In this function, it was responsible, inter alia, for the financial matters of lower public bodies, major cities, decentralisation and municipal reclassification. However, disagreement within the coalition parties about the financial and economic policy to be pursued led to the collapse of the cabinet after nine months. Mrs Stuiveling then started work as coordinator of the research for the RSV survey, the parliamentary survey on state financial assistance to the shipbuilding company Rijn-Schelde-Verolme. "It was incredibly exciting," she later said about this. The study aroused an interest in controlling public expenditure and formed the basis for its transition to the General Court in October 1984. That turned out to be a golden grip. Rarely did function and person connect so well to each other. Mrs Stuiveling was not only "crazy" but also possessed a razor-sharp analytical ability and also had the steadfast personality needed to appeal to the government for its functioning. Mrs Stuiveling urged that ministries' budgets be converted into concrete, measurable objectives. In doing so, she did exactly what she had foreseen during her studies: to enable citizens to benefit from the achievements of business. In doing so, she gave new impetus to the centuries-old Court of Auditors. With her appointment as President in 1999, the Court of Auditors was given a face that had turned outwards. Mrs Stuiveling consistently argued that the government should remain in tune with social developments. She herself set an example. Together with other European Courts, she continued to look for innovative research techniques. Together, for example, they pointed out that there was an accounting black hole within NATO. Surveyer et puner. Control and discipline... requires both patience and impatience. And it requires insight into the functioning of bureaucracy and the enormous complexity of political-administrative decision-making. This insight can only be gained if the policy pursued is accountable. Major policy plans can only succeed if their impacts are mapped out. Saskia Stuiveling knew that like no other. For this reason, in 2000 she established a new tradition together with Vice-President Jeltje van Nieuwenhoven. As a counterpart to Prinsjesdag, the cabinet would present the results of the policy on "Responsible Day" in May. In this way it was possible to check not only the legality, but also, above all, the efficiency of expenditure and revenue. With initiatives like this, Mrs Stuiveling has made a major contribution to Parliament's supervisory role. As President of the Court of Auditors, an institute within an institution, she developed into steward of the rule of law. It was a role with which she did not always make herself popular, but in which she persisted in the belief that a democratic rule of law can only succeed if there are sufficient checks-and-balances. One of her winged statements is: "If those who control you no longer complain about you, you should pay attention." However, Mrs Stuiveling did not usually have to use many words to explain what she meant. Her distinctive look, priming eyes, sonorous voice and firm smile were often enough. For more than 30 years, the Court of Auditors has worked tirelessly for our society. That did not prevent her from being socially active outside. For example, Ms Stuiveling was involved in dozens of cultural institutions in Rotterdam, the Libris Literature Prize, Foster Parents Nederland and Het Financieele Dagblad. She was also involved in the reception of refugees from Latin America and the democratic developments there. Shortly before her sudden death she was approached to become chairman of the Steering Committee on Renovation Binnenhof, a task which she wanted to take on with great ambition. It is sad that the life stage after its extraordinary career in the public service was only allowed to last so short. Ms Stuiveling was Ridder in the Order of the Dutch Lion and Commander in the Order of Orange-Nassau. May our respect for her person and her great merits for our democratic rule of law be to support her husband, children, other family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-05-09-eerstekamer-4.u2	Thank you. I shall close the sitting and ask you to leave the Chamber quietly.
