ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP Group as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	Mr President, in this first period with a new Chamber there are many maiden speeches. I am very happy to have my very first debate with the Finance Committee, but you can just interrupt me. I'd love to! Making public where multinationals pay exactly tax and how much, seems to be a small subject. But it's a subject with great impact. Because tax evasion by large companies operating internationally means that developing countries lose no less than 90 billion in tax revenue. With that money they could do good things in the areas of care, income and infrastructure. These are all things that are so badly needed for the development of such a country. While we are in this Chamber talking about whether we need money for development cooperation and, if so, how much, let us just do it to avoid tax in developing countries. I think that's a strange story. When money is made and where tax is paid, it becomes clear where tax is avoided or avoided. This will enable us to make rules to limit this. It strikes me that there is so much secrecy about all these tax constructions. It's said there's no need to know. At the same time, we live in a time when politics is always saying: if you have nothing to hide, can they know everything about you? When doing daily shopping, when drinking a cup of coffee, when filling up the tank of the car or when buying clothes, a lot of people in our country think about the consequences of those purchases. There are many consumer actions that focus on wrong products or tackling wrong businesses. But I do not think it makes sense to force businesses through consumer behaviour to do good for people, animals and the environment. Because can the consumer know everything? SP belongs to the school that everyone, as well as companies, must adhere to basic conditions, basic conditions that are aimed at doing what does not harm the world, the people, nature and animals. You don't stop child labour by blaming it on someone who buys a T-shirt. Child labour is stopped by international rules and enforcement. Tax avoidance is not stopped by saying to people: go to the most decent company. Tax avoidance stops when politics takes on the task of tackling this kind of behaviour and this kind of possibility. The many scandals about tax agreements, which unfortunately are just legal, have led to a great deal of indignation. It is not for nothing that the journalists who made the Panama Papers public won the prestigious Pulitzer Prize. But how many more Panama Papers and LuxLeaks do we need to establish that information about the tax behaviour of a multinational should not be a secret, but public information? Everyone in our country pays taxes, from poor to rich. Most people pay about 40% of their income in premiums and taxes. And rightly so, when they hear that there are companies that only pay a few percent tax. This leads to mistrust, especially in the politics that have made the fiscal advance of companies a favourite sport. The Chamber wants to check whether companies take responsibility and pay fair taxes, regardless of whether a company is located in Zambia, Ethiopia, Greece or our own country. Several motions have been adopted, even very recently. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State why he's not just dealing with this law right now. Today we are talking about country reports from large companies operating in several countries. In those reports, they have to write down what tax they pay where. This insight is provided to tax administrations. That is too limited for us. That is why I have tabled a proposal for an amendment, which provides for the disclosure of information on where taxes are paid. And we also decide that we do it in such a way that we don't harm trade secrets. This is one of the problems that emerged from the impact assessment carried out by the European Commission. I don't like words like this. In fact, by impact assessment, we simply mean the assessment of the effects of public reporting. This would show that several countries would have difficulty making all the information from these country reports public. Which countries are they really talking about? I'd like to know. We have prepared this bill in writing. The answers to the questions we asked at the time show that the OECD is going to check whether tax administrations in a country are actually monitoring whether risk selection is being carried out on evasive behaviour. This will be done through cross-country comparisons. It's called peer reviews. Can the Secretary of State say anything more about this? How often will this happen? From when? How does this take shape? Are OECD people in the Netherlands going to watch with the Tax Administration? How's that gonna happen? Are there sanctions associated with failing to check the country reports properly? Are the results of these comparisons also made public? Are there guidelines for that? When did it actually succeed? How many countries should participate in these country reports? In January it was 57, but it has become more. As I said, a majority of Parliament has supported calls from the SP twice in order to make the government work at European level to make public reporting compulsory by country. We can do that today, too, through this bill. We are not just taking the lead in Europe, we are just taking care of it for the countries that are submitting a country report here. Once again, we must do so in such a way that it does not harm trade secrets. Not only should citizens in the Netherlands know this, but also citizens in developing countries should be able to know whether multinationals rightly cut forests in their country, win oil and pay fair taxes. They are entitled to this information. Does the Secretary of State support that plea? The cabinet has chosen to make self-regulation of the broad-based desire to publish the country report. A company based in the Netherlands can choose whether it provides the information publicly and must explain it if it does not. But what does the Secretary of State expect from this? What are the reasons for not doing it? Doesn't it get a little messy when one does and the other doesn't? It is also a bit crazy, because they have to make it public when a company is operating in a non-cooperative jurisdiction, also called tax haven. Why can it, if they are active there, and not if they are active in other countries? We have now decided that multinationals in the financial and oil industries should also make it public. What exactly is the difference with the multinationals we were talking about today? In addition to the publicity of the country reports, one major flaw is that this is only about 10% of all companies that have to do so. Because it's only about companies that book more than 750 million in turnover. Although it is a very large amount, it is only 10% to 15% of the companies involved. Isn't that a little short? There are a huge number of companies that convert less than 750 million and are also active in avoiding tax, including in developing countries. Why do we not choose to oblige large companies operating internationally, according to the EU definition of at least 40 million in size, to produce country reports? I have tabled a proposal to that effect. No one likes paying taxes, but it's very important. Because with tax revenues we pay our education, good care, infrastructure. We provide public services that are accessible to everyone. It is precisely in countries that still have a great deal of work to do to develop and build up such facilities that large companies, especially from the West, do not escape the tax obligation, avoid it and find ways of not paying what they have to pay. Oxfam Novib has made it public that the 50 largest American companies have their profits back, even more stables in tax havens, so they don't have to pay taxes where the money is earned. That shows that what we're dealing with today is necessary. It is a good step to ask for country reports. We can improve this by making them public and by ensuring that many more multinationals have to do so. If we do that today, we will be able to put all our energy into organising fair taxes in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	I have another question about an amendment by Mrs Leijten on what we technically call public country-by-country reporting. I have also tabled the motion on this point, and I am very much in favour of it. However, this motion calls for a European commitment to public country-by-country reporting. Mrs Leijten's amendment does not propose that this should be done at European level, but only for the Netherlands. Does Mrs Leijten not think there is a chance that by doing this very one-sidedly as the Netherlands alone, we will run the risk that other countries will no longer be delivering country reports here to the Tax Office and that perhaps we will also waste the time to get it right in the European context? The latter would be the best solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	I agree with you on that last point, but it's taking so long. We have indicated here by a majority in the Chamber that we believe that the Dutch Government should make a commitment to this. It's pulling, pulling really hard to get them to do the same. However, we can send a signal with this. We are a country with large companies and we have a leading role in a lot of things, also sometimes negative leading roles when it comes to all the tax constructions we offer to companies. If we say: we are going to settle it here, in a good and careful way, so that the problems arising from the European Commission's investigation of trade secrets that may be on the streets can be overcome, then we can also say: come, European Union, join in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	The latter doesn't rule out the first, I guess. I do not think that the European countries are going to run faster because we have already implemented it. Unfortunately, I add, because otherwise I would have arranged it right away in the Netherlands, but I think it is best to do it with each other. My first question, however, was that it might be counterproductive to do it only as the Netherlands, because it may mean that we no longer get country reports because countries will say: it will all be public and we have not done so in our own countries; so look at it, the Netherlands. What are the odds of Mrs Leijten?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	Then they do not comply with the OECD standards, nor with the European directive. That would be very complicated. I think it is about the standards that are being imposed and that is said: at least you have to give that country report to the country where you have your principal place of business, where the question is whether it should be about subsidiaries. As far as I'm concerned, that's what this should be about. The moment you make it public, that exchange between tax administrations wouldn't have to be so crucial anymore. We also see, of course, that it already applies to other sectors, such as banking and mining in developing countries when it comes to logging, oil and mines. So it's already possible. I'd think it'd be a very good signal if we did. We're a little impatient. That's where this comes from.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	I share that impatience. Once again, we have tabled this motion ourselves, so we think it is very important. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, through Mrs Leijten, how he sees this debate at European level. How fast can these steps be taken? How does something like that work out? Is it possible that other countries will be put on the brakes? I'd say that's a loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	My question is along the lines of what Mrs Schouten says. We also supported this motion, but it must be done at European level. Does Mrs Leijten not consider it a risk that if we say in a moment: if you send country reports to the Netherlands, we will make them public, that all countries will have an excuse not to share them with us? The European directive does not provide for this kind of openness. Mrs Leijten would like that to be different, and so would I, but it is not. My concern is, therefore, that we should give them the perfect excuse not to have to implement the directive that is now before us. Does Mrs Leijten share that concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	In my view, all kinds of European rules will come into force with regard to failure to comply with directives. I made the proposal not to make the entire country report public. I have proposed that, in the case of ministerial regulations, this is all technical, but it is a legal matter to decide which information is to be made public. This way we can overcome the fact that business secrets come out on the street. The principle of paying taxes in the country where you earn your money is, in my opinion, proud, both in the European Union and in this Chamber. You need to get that out in the open. It needs to be checked out. If we can take the first step in this and there is no harm to businesses, it could still have the opposite effect, namely that we can go after companies that do not, and they say 'we no longer share those country reports', so 'what do you have to hide?'.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	The question of where we want to go differs from Mrs Leijten and I do not think so. My point is that this directive does not provide for disclosure. Mrs Leijten regrets that, and I regret that. I am also curious about the progress of the negotiations in Brussels. I am afraid, and that is my question to the Secretary of State, that if you do this unilaterally, other countries will say: that is not what the directive provides. Mrs Leijten says that there will be a letter of formal notice, but I honestly believe that those countries will tell us that we are not following the rules. I shall put that question to the Secretary of State, through Mrs Leijten. Then we would have shot ourselves in the foot and that would be a shame to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	Europe is often used as an excuse to wait and see if we can do something in the Netherlands. For different sectors, it is simply mandatory for country reports to become public. We can just go after that. Is that detrimental to those companies? Sure, because we can see what's happening. Is it the transparency that makes us aware of what is happening? Yes, and that's what this debate is about. We're discussing a bill today that will allow us to settle that. We can wait endlessly for Europe, for the negotiations that are taking place there, for lobbyists to work with the European Commission, but we can also show how we think about it and how we vote on it today. We will ask the Secretary of State to make a ministerial arrangement. Then we can determine whether we think it is enough or perhaps too much. We will then have another debate on this, but then we will have sent a signal: Europe, you are not moving forward, we want more.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	You have made your point, Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	Very briefly, Mr President. Mrs Leijten goes around it three times. She says, "Let's give an example." My question was really different. The directive now before us does not provide for this. Then I wonder what kind of weapon we have in our hands with the law to force companies or parts of companies outside the Netherlands. I wonder if this will impress me in any way. Anyway, I'm waiting for the Secretary of State's answer. The debate is not about the purpose, but about whether this is the effective way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	The question of whether we can force companies would not have asked you. I think that is complicated, but it does make it clear who has something to hide, and that can then be explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Lee on behalf of GroenLinks. This is his maiden speech. As usual in this house, there is no interruption. So we're all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	Madam President. We're going to talk today about multinationals. I thought I'd give a small profit warning: I'll be a little broad-mouthed in my maiden speech, but I promise I'll bring it to the point in the future and even faster. I'm sure you'll have tips if I don't pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	It's in the Acts, black and white. I'll hold you to it. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	I'm gonna make it happen, too. Madam President. The Netherlands has been known for centuries as the land of competition between the merchant and the vicar. Buyers were on the way to the first company with shares, the first multinational and actually the first bilateral tax treaty. The vicars cared about morals and not least about tax morals. No wonder, therefore, that the promotion of Dutch trade and industry and the maintenance of tax morals have long been in competition with each other. A competition that also has advantages. For example, there was an eighteenth-century vicar, coincidentally not a Dutchman but an American, Jonathan Mayhew, who said: no taxation without representation. This principle, no tax without representation, created its own dynamic. One of the main forces behind the rise of parliamentary democracy was the imposition of taxes on bourgeoisie and its businesses. So it is actually this competition between the merchant and the reverend that makes me stand here today, not only because I, as a Member of Parliament, control the government's task as an internal manager of the state's taxes, but also because I think that the merchant and the reverend sometimes lose sight of the interests of people and the environment in their mutual competition. I do not identify myself as a child of teachers so easily with the merchant and as now atheistic product of Catholic emancipation neither with the vicar. No, I have chosen with conviction the role of People's Representative for GroenLinks. I want to make sure that the merchant does not lose out in his zeal to make society work for the economy instead of the economy for society. However, I would also like to protect the vicar in his search for the higher from wandering, especially from hypocrisy and the use of double morale. This brings me to today's topic. Avoiding double taxation for companies operating in several countries is in itself a very noble aim. If that is well arranged, any merchant can grow his business and give the vicar his blessing because everyone pays an equal tax share. However, this noble ideal is far from reality. Avoiding double taxation turned into double avoidance of tax payments in practice. A record number of bilateral tax treaties, the favourable geographical location as the main port of the European continent and the pride of the multinationals that created or lured our country here, created a context in which the promotion of the Dutch tax settlement environment systematically won the tax morale. We really forgot to make sure everyone pays a fair share of taxes. One thing is certain: one is tax avoidance, the other is tax increase. That is why we in the Netherlands are also faced with enormous burdens on the labour factor. Unfortunately, we have to note that the high tax morale we find among Dutch private individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises is not automatically found among large companies in the Netherlands. Now the blame for this can be unilaterally placed on these companies, but that is wrong. After all, the Reverend was also responsible for accepting the emergence of this double morale. Madam President, I am sure you are very curious to hear whether the Secretary of State acknowledges that there has been a double morale for too long. Does he not agree that the constant emphasis on the importance of securing the attractive Dutch tax location climate by him and his predecessors has led to a tunnel vision in thinking at his ministry and at the tax authorities? How else can it be explained that the Netherlands continued to pursue its ruling practice, despite warning phrases in internal documents such as "it is clear that the international pulling of holes causes tension" or "we see that there is unbusiness, but do not inform the other tax authorities"? Furthermore, the non-sharing of information is referred to as the Achilles heel of the rulings in this case. The top point is the sentence "for the Tax Administration, the effective tax rate is not a relevant circumstance'. In other words, we don't give a shit how much tax money we actually raise as long as multinationals are happy and stay in the Netherlands. How is the Secretary of State going to break this tunnel vision? In his view, is the cabinet credible now that multinationals are forcing more openness and information exchange, but they themselves have not succeeded in doing so in recent years? When did he say that the Netherlands was no longer part of the problem but part of the solution? Another reason for the emergence of this tunnel vision is the powerful lobby that constantly exerts pressure to reduce the tax on profits for multinational companies. The Ministry can literally not move or VNO-NCW, the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors or the office of the American Chamber of Commerce is on the doorstep. Here the adage seems to be: too much representation leads to too little taxation. What forms of collusion and contradiction does the Secretary of State intend to strengthen in order to counter this ongoing lobby? And did the Secretary of State not find it significant that the first question of the Dutch Order of Tax Advisors on this bill was actually based on the false assumption that he deliberately wanted to go further with this law than the internationally agreed rules? Of course, the Netherlands is not unique. It did not facilitate tax avoidance as only country, but we were and are extremely skilled at this. We are the biggest tax haven for multinationals in Europe. Each year 4,000 billion goes in and out of the Netherlands. The NGOs that are united in the international Tax Justice movement have shown this convincingly. The enormous damage caused by this is also recognised internationally. This morning, Oxfam Novib announced to my colleague Mr Leijten that the 50 largest American multinationals have held as much as 1,600 billion dollars in tax havens. The Fortune 500 multinationals have parked no less than 2,100 billion dollars offshore. Half of these Fortune 500 companies have a group entity in the Netherlands. Due to global tax avoidance, governments lack EUR 500 billion. Around 90 billion of them will not end up in the treasury of developing countries. Not only there this works disruptively, but also in the Netherlands itself. The growing unease, especially among the lowest paid sections of the population, is fed when the high lords, often with played fatalism, accept that large-scale taxation is being avoided. The story is: otherwise these companies will leave the Netherlands. Henry Ford seems to have once said: "It is a good thing that citizens do not understand our tax treatment of companies; otherwise there would be a revolution tomorrow." Because it's complex. Each country has a different income tax. Countries are competing with each other in this respect and there seems to be an inexhaustible repertoire of structures that make it possible to avoid double taxation and actually double non-taxation. Therefore, it was high time for the OECD to launch the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting report, one of the action points of which, number 13, is now being transposed into Dutch legislation. I would like to stress that this whole idea comes from the British Richard Murphy, one of the founders of the Tax Justice movement. That's where really good ideas come from. This law, which also implements a European directive on this subject, obliges multinationals with a total turnover of more than EUR 750 million to report on their activities by country in which they operate. This is a profit, because automatic exchange of these reports between countries will give these companies much less opportunities to avoid tax through base erosion and profit shifting. My question to the Secretary of State is what he thinks of the turnover limit of EUR 750 million. Of course, this is an international agreement now, but does the Secretary of State agree with me that this limit should be lowered in the future, especially if this system of automatic exchange of country reports becomes a success? Now the law affects a group of 3,150 companies with activities in the Netherlands, but that is not yet 2 per cent of the number of companies in the Netherlands. Should the limit not be lowered in the long term, at least to a total group turnover of EUR 40 million, the normal standard definition of "a large company"? I also have questions about the possible success of this law. The cabinet writes that this law can lead to additional tax revenues by receiving information from abroad. Their size will also affect the assessment of the success of this law and the future roll-out to more companies. How will the Secretary of State monitor this additional revenue and is he prepared to report to the Chamber on this, for example on a quarterly basis? Will these additional revenues also be aggregated at the level of the European Union and the OECD, and will the Secretary of State also report to the Court on this? We have now learned through damage and shame that many agreements, including on automatic exchange of information, are in practice not respected by countries and companies. The Netherlands has a bad track record in this respect. We will discuss this shortly in the debate on Dutch ruling practice. Today a few questions about the enforcement of this law, first for companies. There's a sanction on non-submission of a country report. That penalty shall not exceed the amount of the fourth category referred to in Article 23, fourth paragraph of the Criminal Code. I looked into it, because the amount was not in the explanatory statement. This is a fine of up to €20,500, please note, for a group entity in the Netherlands with a turnover of at least 50 million or the group head office in the Netherlands of a multinational with a turnover of at least 750 million euros. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if he expects companies to be impressed by this fine. Why wasn't a fifth category fine chosen, then it's up to €82,000, or even the sixth category, €820,000? Can the Secretary of State rule out that companies prefer to pay a fine rather than submit country reports if this allows them to continue to avoid tax? If he fails to convince me, I am considering tabling an amendment to this. I now come to compliance by countries. The international agreements on the basis of which this law is introduced rightly provide peer reviews to monitor the correct implementation of country-by-country reports. The note on the report refers to the fact that they will take place in due course. I think that's vague. Can the Secretary of State give a more precise indication of time? If not, is he prepared to commit himself to a rapid agreement on this date and to inform the Court of Justice about it? Furthermore, Member States may be defaulted by the European Commission if they fail to implement their reporting obligation. What is the final penalty that a Member State can face? So much for the bill. I would like to use this maiden speech to make it clear to the political groups in this Chamber who are ideologically a little further away from GroenLinks why this is an important subject. I have been director for seven and a half years of an organisation with 625 employees and an annual turnover of 175 million euros. I know very well how hard it is to guarantee employment for so many people every year, but above all to raise enough money to serve all the stakeholders we wanted to serve. My organization had no profit and no shareholders. I am now talking about Oxfam Novib, an organization very much admired by the PVV, so thank you for the compliments. I know very well how much pressure there is on a board of directors and certainly on listed companies. I can also imagine that, if you want to achieve your organization's mission with all your attention and energy, you might end up in a tunnel vision. However, I insist that the importance of tackling tax avoidance does not arise from jealousy about the success of others, but from the knowledge that tax avoidance is very disruptive, in Western but especially in southern societies. As an active member of the Tax Justice movement, I have also discovered that the dialogue on tax avoidance between companies, governments, science, audit firms, as well as civil society organisations, is certainly not a power-free dialogue. The lack of a more equal dialogue and sufficient counter-power has also helped to create a tunnel vision and to have a double morale when it comes to tackling tax avoidance. What are the possibilities for the Secretary of State to involve all stakeholders in a balanced way in the future approach to tax avoidance? Does he agree with me that it would have been better for the future involvement of stakeholders if the directive, and thus this implementing law, had known the obligation to place all country reports in a large, global and publicly accessible database? In this sense, I sympathise with the thinking behind Mr Leijten's amendment, but with others I believe that this will be very counterproductive. I hope that the Secretary of State will make a particular effort to make this publication possible in the follow-up to this directive and implementing law, in a subsequent round. It is crucial for developing countries. We have now come up with a very complicated model that is almost impossible for tax administrations in developing countries. They benefit from openness and transparency, so that they know immediately what they would be able to collect income tax from which company. I'm rounding up. I look forward to the Secretary of State's response. I would also like to hear the opinion of the PVV colleague. Because in myself too the rivalry between the merchant and the minister rages, I do offer, in cooperation with the Chamber and the Secretary of State, to do my best to eliminate tax avoidance as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	Thank you for this lovely speech. This is a rather technical subject, but you managed to colour it nicely with your personal history. Thank you for that. Following Mr Edgar Mulder's speech from the PVV Group, I would like to suspend my congratulations. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder, who will also make his maiden speech on behalf of the PVV Group. So he can't be interrupted right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	Diversity is good. Diversity between countries is good. Mr. Chairman. Europe's continent has become strong and prosperous because of the diversity between the different countries. The Renaissance, the enlightenment, but also the industrial revolution were only possible because this continent was not a superstate. It is precisely through competition between countries that the best ideas emerged. Freedom and competition are so much better than the unitary sausage that Brussels wants to impose on us. The same applies to the tax regime. At the end of my contribution, I will return to the law to be discussed today for the country reports of multinationals. First of all, I would like to say something about taxes in general, and that for ordinary citizens in particular. While in business there is almost daily stress on the workplace, there is a serene rest in the luxury office buildings of the civil service, and of a single multinational with 175 million turnover. While in business everything supports and moans to ensure that companies are going to make a little more revenue and profit, the government simply increases the tax by one percent or more. Plenty of money, they seem to think there. That has to change. With that, the PVV doesn't say that taxes are bad. No, taxes finance necessary government expenditure, such as security and care. But the taxes have to be lower, much lower. The tax morale in the Netherlands must remain good. That is the basis of the State and of the society that we Dutch have built. Too high taxes not only inhibit economic growth, but also undermine this morale. Everyone knows it in the Netherlands: taxes are far too high here. Earlier this week, the Minister admitted that the average marginal pressure is 50%. For hundreds of thousands of Dutch people, it is 64%. These are hundreds of thousands of Dutch people who do their best and only have 36 cents of every euro they earn extra. 36 cents! This is unacceptable. We all want that commitment and work wages, that those Dutch who really do their best, learn, make promotion, these brands in their wallets? Won't work, then. The PVV wants that work pays, that the Dutch gets net more to spend. In order to maintain the tax morale, to support the payment of taxes, it is also necessary that the proceeds benefit the Netherlands, that is to say to our elderly and to the care, and not to Africa, climate crap or Greece. It was brought in by Dutchmen. It's our money. Actually, it's not that hard at all: just use your common sense. In the seventies and eighties of the last century, the tax debate often focused on the differences between the Rhineland-Palatinate and the Anglo-Saxon model. In daily political translation this meant the contrast between high taxes with a welfare state and low taxes without a safety net. A horror scenario is threatening the Netherlands. If we do not intervene, if we do not adjust, we will soon get the worst of both worlds. This must not happen either. We then keep the current high taxes and combine them with the lack of certainty created by the dismantling policy of recent years. Think of relaxing the right of dismissal and not a social safety net. This must not happen either. The free West as a society is by far the most beautiful thing man has ever made. What is built up here with hard work and common sense is nothing else in this world. Our way of life, our society is superior. The PVV will do whatever is necessary and possible to maintain this. Paying taxes is part of the basis of these achievements. Back to the law before you. Brussels wants these laws to overrule our fiscal sovereignty. This law, too, is an example of salami tactics. This tactic runs from country reports, through a single fiscal union with tax rates set by Brussels, to the dream of every eurofiel: European taxes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the core of our fiscal location is healthy competition between countries. Without competition, we will finally be a wing-west for Brussels. The PVV stands for an economically strong and independent Netherlands. We do not allow our fiscal sovereignty, our exemption from participation and our network of treaties to be affected. Therefore, the PVV will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	Thank you for your clear maiden speech. I propose that we suspend for a moment so that colleagues can congratulate you and Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Van der Lee and Mr Mulder for two totally opposing speeches, which clearly gave a beautiful political vision. I look forward to the debates with and between those two. I am pleased with Mr Van der Lee because he asks so many questions and uses so much speaking time that I will no longer be complaining about my speaking time. I am pleased with Mr Mulder because he is an ally in reducing marginal taxation. That's what we need in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Lee still has to call Wikipedia, because he stands on it as a Dutch spin doctor and that does him no credit. This law provides for the tax authorities of multinational companies to understand the country in which they pay taxes. This, like the exchange of rulings, is a new tool to counter tax avoidance. My group welcomes this law, but still has a few questions. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether there is a risk that the underlying directive will be implemented differently in other Member States, so that this legislation can play a role in the parent company's decision to establish? This question is also relevant in the context of the SP Group's amendment, because if all countries implement the directive differently, we will still have good implementation and will we not go shopping where we want to go? If the final mother's reporting year deviates from that of the entity that is required to report in the Netherlands, can the group file be affiliated to the financial year of the ultimate parent entity? For example, a British company reports from April to April. Should a subsidiary report here from January to January, or may it also report from April to April? In order to prevent tax avoidance, the exchange of country reports, as regulated by this law, is a small step. Much more important is the decision to exchange rulings between tax administrations. On the issue of rulings, an interesting note has just been released on the basis of the Public Participation Act. This note, written to the Secretary of State, describes all kinds of rulings, including the forms by which tax can be avoided. We will debate that note next week. I believe that on Good Friday we will have a response to all the parliamentary questions on this matter and on all the other notes I take it that have been published in this series, because they were somewhat astonishing. I see Mr Van der Lee, who has also read with great interest, nodding. For now, I would like to know from the Secretary of State about the exchange of rulings. There were deadlines for that and they were very generously missed. Is the Netherlands on schedule now, after the deadline has been postponed? What is the reason that the Netherlands has failed to exchange the rulings on time? How much of the rulings has now been exchanged? The Secretary of State may also answer these questions in writing for the next debate, but I would like to see an up-to-date state of affairs on the rulings exchanged. Are all rulings now in the central database, as intended? Is it purely random which rulings have already been exchanged, or are there specific categories of rulings that are not yet in the database? I have a very specific question. Has there been any policy at any time to exchange or, above all, not exchange certain rulings? I refer in particular to categories 6 and 7 in the note we have received.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the exchange of tax information between tax administrations. This exchange ensures information, facilitates the detection of fraud and promotes effective and efficient enforcement. That is why the VVD is also in favour of the exchange of country reports between tax administrations. The VVD is therefore in favour of this proposal, also because the additional rules make the scheme more effective for a multinational group active in several Member States. As far as we're concerned, it could have been a hammer piece. But while we're here, I still have a few questions for the Secretary of State. What is his expectation of implementation in practice? Does he expect any problems in the exchange of these country reports? If the Netherlands receives these country reports, what will it do with them? Is there sufficient capacity to work on that? Otherwise, it'll be a paper exercise. Which countries have already taken up this OECD action point, are participating in the exchange and have actually done so? And which countries are also ready for implementation in time? Mr Omtzigt has already asked how the countries are going to implement it. After all, there may also be some difference. That also seems to us to be an important question. There are also parties who want companies to publish country reports. As we know, the VVD is not in favour of that. A large number of measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance have already been taken. We should let these measures do their job first. The VVD also believes that you should not take steps in this direction unilaterally and in anticipation of EU legislation, as it considers this to be counterproductive.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	This opinion of the VVD does not surprise me, but I would like to hear the VVD about covering up and keeping secret all kinds of information that is important to us as citizens and at the same time wanting to do so in all the citizens' data, because 'it is not bad if you have nothing to hide'. Why are companies allowed to keep everything a secret and do you need to know everything about citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	I do not think we are making public citizens' tax returns either. As far as keeping secrets is concerned, we believe that there is a need to exchange information. We believe that this exchange should take place between the tax authorities. So there's nothing secret about it. The tax authorities can see what information is in it, what should be done with it and whether tax revenues may be missed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	I think it is very relevant, not only for us as politicians but also for citizens and journalists, to see what happens to money earned by companies, but which is not made publicly available by taxes. It is a moral duty of citizens to pay taxes. And that's what business is all about. Where we can calculate very well what the marginal tax burden of all kinds of households is, we do not really know from the business community what the average pays. That's a little crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	I think I have indicated that I think it is important that the tax authorities have that information. That's what I think when it comes to citizens. I don't think it's necessary for you to make that information public again. In some cases, company confidential data are included. That is what Mrs Leijten herself has said. We believe that this first step, which is now being taken, is one of a comprehensive package of measures aimed at tackling tax evasion, tax fraud and tax avoidance. Those are the rules you're gonna have to give me a chance to do. The ink of this directive is not even dry and Mrs Leijten is making up another measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	I do not think I am making up this new measure at all. I am merely saying that we should take this measure in the Netherlands, because it takes a little while in Europe. It has been under discussion in this Parliament for some time now. The VVD's always against that. I simply note here that the VVD is basically the personification of the red carpet being rolled out for companies to pay mainly less tax, while citizens, people who just work, have had to deal with tax increases. They have been given fewer facilities and have to deal with higher personal contributions to care and higher rents. And the VVD is fine with that. We'll see again that the VVD just stayed the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	In my opinion, the SP is the personification of a party that believes that almost all companies are criminal, which is seeking to chase all kinds of companies out of the country and which reduces employment. That certainly doesn't seem like the way to go. I'm glad my party stands for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yeah, yeah. One reaction provokes the other reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr President, I promise you that I will not say anything more about the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	I didn't say that companies are criminal. If certain companies are criminal, we're supposed to expose them. They should be punished for this. We are talking about public access to the tax paid by companies, so that we can examine whether it is sufficient. It has nothing to do with crime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	Then you have corrected your point, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	I would also like to say something about that. We're not in favour of keeping it a secret. We think the tax authorities should have that information. That information will also be given to the IRS with this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	You too have made your point, Mrs Aukje de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. I congratulate colleagues Van der Lee and Edgar Mulder for their crystal clear maiden speeches. Among other things, it was about merchants and vicars. You could almost add the category "children of teachers." I'm allowed to say it, because I'm a teacher's kid myself. But such people are always welcome in this room. Today, legislation is in place to help prevent tax avoidance. This is only part of the legislation that has been put into effect by this cabinet in recent years. The PvdA Group strongly supports this legislation. It will be possible for tax administrations in the European Union to see where companies ultimately pay their taxes. That's important. I have questions about this legislation on three issues. The first issue is developing countries. The second is the scope. It is only about the European Union, but tax evaders also know their way out of the European Union. The third theme is the attitude of the companies themselves. I shall begin with the issue of developing countries. It is well known that developing countries can suffer if companies are supposedly subject to taxation in the Netherlands or in another country of the European Union by means of treaties and thus no longer pay taxes in a developing country. The question is to what extent the understanding of where companies pay tax, which is obtained, can be used for the benefit of developing countries. Can the Secretary of State answer that? Does he have any ideas about that? It's kind of a big theme. This could be serious money for developing countries. They don't usually have that much tax revenue. That's why I'm happy to get an answer. The second issue is the scope: which countries are participating? A motion has been tabled which has been signed by the PvdA with many parties in the Chamber calling for action not only at European level but also at international level. This is particularly about America, but Hong Kong is also sometimes used as a pawn in the tax avoidance fight. How does the government view that? We're gonna be doing a good job like Europe. Does it then move from the European Union to elsewhere? How is this to be put on the agenda in the world, for example through the WTO? More specifically, I would like to raise the position of the United Kingdom. The British are still sitting here as a partner at the table, because they haven't left yet. The Article 50 procedure has already started, but is not yet in place. The United Kingdom is a very competitive country in this area. What are we gonna do with the UK? Does it stick to this? Or is it gonna be in the trash first thing? What does it mean for countries and multinationals that have their headquarters there? What does it mean for the Netherlands? I wouldn't want to be naive about this. I ask the Secretary of State to address the position of England in particular. The third and final theme I deal with in my head-in-law on this bill is the attitude of companies themselves. We always make laws and data need to be shared: where does a multinational tax pay? But shouldn't companies also want that to be their own responsibility to society? When I look at the corporate governance code, I see that the word "tax" is mentioned once in it. It is mainly about the audit committee and I know what not all about technical papers. But in view of the social debate and the importance of companies simply making a reasonable contribution to the collective provision of services such as good education, good cultural facilities and a good climate of living that they also benefit from, isn't it obvious that companies take the lead and publish it themselves? A number of companies do so, but that is still quite short and very limited, while a code of fiscal governance would be quite obvious. Companies are on our doorstep. There has just been extensive support to discuss the protection of Dutch companies here in the Chamber. So they're on the sidewalk when they need us but if they can make a contribution themselves, they don't really give at home yet. That doesn't really fit in with this time of year. Does the cabinet agree with me? Does the cabinet also see opportunities to move companies to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr. Chairman. For my part too, of course, I would like to begin by congratulating and congratulating Mr Van der Lee and Mr Mulder for their passionate and somewhat different maiden speeches. In any case, I have learned that GroenLinksers like to work in the form of multinationals and that Mr Mulder is actually calling that you should not be too concerned about tax avoidance. That's how you learn something remarkable all the time. Let us note one thing: we are having this debate on tax avoidance in a very different context than five or ten years ago. You might forget if you were listening to some bleak speeches here today, but we are really taking steps that I didn't think possible ten years ago, both in the OECD and in the European Union. I always agree that you can make nice agreements, but that, of course, only shows in practice whether they are actually being implemented and enforced. We are talking about one of these implementations today, the thirteenth recommendation of the OECD project. Most of it has already been implemented, but we are now putting the points on the i because there is a European directive, a European directive that will make this exchange even easier. My group will support this proposal. I still have a limited number of questions. The first is indeed about the exchange that is about to take place, namely the automatic exchange of the so-called country reports. But where does the Secretary of State base the optimism that it will be done at the right pace and timetable? Mr Omtzigt was right to point out that we have been delayed in the exchange of rulings. I also agree with his question as to what is really going on with dealing with this delay in the exchange of rulings. Is the Secretary of State sure that the exchange of country reports is going well? Does he further ensure that we will see in practice that the countries implement it in the same way? What are the safeguards for this? A so-called multilateral instrument signed by 57 countries is being prepared for the automatic exchange at OECD level. All these countries are going to automatically shape that exchange. Can the Secretary of State indicate when that multilateral instrument will really enter into force? When will this automatic exchange take place? Will this also be 2018, as provided for in the European Union directive? I regret that the United States has chosen not to participate in the multilateral instrument. I find that extremely regrettable. Could the Secretary of State elaborate on the United States' considerations of doing so? To what extent have attempts been made to bring them together? What steps have been taken in the event that the United States does indeed choose the bilateral path, making agreements with each country individually? To what extent have the Netherlands been in contact with the United States? That is not the least important country when it comes to taxes. The bill that we are discussing today also includes a notification obligation for Dutch entities such as the non-Dutch parent entity........................................................................................................................................................................ How are we gonna fill out this notification obligation? Can the Secretary of State go into that further? Will other countries continue to do so in a similar way? I think this is a valuable addition, which attempts to close a possible shortcut or back door. Finally, I have two brief questions. There are amendments by Mrs Leijten on public reporting. The first question is what is actually happening at the moment with the debate in Brussels on public reporting? It is no secret that my group is keen to deal with this at European level. These are complicated negotiations. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? The second question is the following. With Mr Van der Lee, I am actually looking for an answer to the question of how the law we are dealing with today will work in practice. Paper is patient and unfortunately even laws are sometimes patient. You will have to enforce this law and you will have to look very closely at whether the intended goal, which I wholeheartedly support, is being achieved. Does the Secretary of State, for example, intend to inform the Chamber about this six months and one and a half years after the entry into force of the law? What's in the law? How much is exchanged? What kind of footage do you get from that exchange? Are there any companies that do what Mr Van der Lee fears, namely simply cut the fine to get rid of the whining? And, if so, will we be told which companies they are? The adoption of laws is a good thing and a good thing, but you will have to look at whether it achieves the intended goal in practice. I'm curious how the Secretary of State intends to keep the Chamber informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to congratulate Mr Van der Lee and Mr Mulder. It's always a good time to make your maiden speech. That's especially true when it's about things that hit you. I think this case affects both gentlemen. I've noticed that he's hitting both gentlemen in a different way. This will liven up the debate in this committee, in this fine committee only. Of course, my ears are all splashed when it comes to vicars and merchants. Mr Van der Lee was somewhat sceptical about both the minister's side and the merchant's side. I think we just need them both. That is also what I believe should be at the heart of this debate. We must express ourselves on the desirability or unwelcomeness of the constructions that are being rigged to avoid tax, but we must also simply do something about it if we think it is not right. I can already say that my group supports this law. The law is indeed a consequence of the OECD package, a package of measures aimed at combating tax avoidance. My questions are not so much about this law as about the implementation of the law. Is this gonna fly like this? I'm a little more sceptical about that. I might have hoped in advance that it would be less necessary to be skeptical. This is also due to some things that have recently or less recently been reviewed. First of all, I would like to mention the discussion on the directive to combat mismatches with third countries. This directive had to come into force five years later from the cabinet than the European Commission had adopted. The room had to stop it. Furthermore, the exchange of rulings has been mentioned a number of times here. On 31 December last year, all this should have been settled. Then it turned out that only 15% had been exchanged. And we are still waiting for the information, also in connection with the Omtzigt/Schouten motion. How exactly is this going? If the Secretary of State has that information by now, I'd be happy to hear it. He'll have to report this to the Chamber by 1 May anyway. But I also mention, in the third place, last week's note or a week and a half ago on APA/ATR practice, about tax deals with the big companies. We had to read in the newspaper that such notes exist, and that it also shows that the words used in the fight against tax avoidance are in stark contrast to practice. It is deliberately maintained. These are things that do not create confidence that if we adopt laws here, or if we agree on rules here, those laws or rules will also be implemented in the established way. And then there was a meeting in Malta last weekend to see how we can keep the location climate optimal. Tax avoidance is a serious matter because it can harm tax morals throughout the country. Perhaps this will turn me into the vicar who does not always see Mr Van der Lee as a positive person, but that is why we must vote against tax avoidance. Because it's about justice, because it's about everyone in this country simply having to pay their share of taxes. If that does not happen again, then you can no longer ask other citizens or companies to do so with good decency. I'm on the law. I told you I was wondering how this implementation would go. Can the Secretary of State assure me that this is now going to happen quickly and correctly? Perhaps even more important is the question of how he will inform us about this. This has become even more important after the very last incidents concerning the way in which the Chamber is taken into account in this kind of process. Is the Secretary of State prepared to inform this Chamber if this automatic exchange is going properly? Is he also prepared to inform the Chamber directly if it is not, so that measures can be taken immediately if necessary? I agree with Mr Van der Lee and Mr Van Weyenberg on the deterrent effect of the fine on multinationals which do not comply with the obligation to provide information. I have not selected those amounts, but if they are indeed around €10,000 or €20,000, then for some people it is an hourly rate. That doesn't seem like the most terrifying fine you can think of. To all my colleagues who are now considering a career switch, I say: perhaps the fine is a little more than an hour's fee, but of course it is not fines with a real deterrent effect if there is unwillingness. How does the Secretary of State ensure that such matters are simply delivered at this time? On my question to Mrs Leijten about the public country-by-country reporting. There's an amendment in front of it now. As I pointed out in Mrs Leijten's interruption, we support country-by-country reporting at European level, but what consequences will it have if we do so ourselves? More importantly, the question is how much the cabinet is now committed to furthering this discussion in Europe. A lot of questions have already been asked about this. A motion has just been tabled on this matter. Can the Secretary of State pass on the current state of affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	We have just had an interrupting debate on that amendment. After that, I was thinking of the following. We'll take care of it at European level. We have also said that we would like to. In this we also have the power of expression as a Member State of the European Union. But actually, of course, you'd like this kind of country-by-country reporting to take place worldwide. What if the argument not to do it in the Netherlands because the discussion is in Europe, as the argument is not to do it in Europe because the discussion needs to be conducted worldwide? Haven't we been swimming in a trap where we don't get out?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u42	A motion was tabled in February by Mr Merkies on the public country-by-country reporting and how it is now handled by the cabinet. The cabinet, the then Minister of Justice, then wrote that he supports the purpose of the public country-by-country reporting. I think that's a win. The cabinet indicated that it supports that this public should be shaped in some form, but the motion also asked very consciously to do so at European level, because it does not help you to know only in your own country what some companies are doing. You want to know if it is not properly moved within countries in Europe. Indeed, this is a global problem that could be picked up in the OECD context. I think it is a first step towards doing it at European level. This will have an impact on a number of multinationals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u43	I think it was Mr Van der Lee who mentioned the number of multinationals involved in the Netherlands. 3,150 were there, so that's a hell of a number. The first step in Europe can also be the first step here. We have seen that in 2015 there was a really good directive, strengthened by Parliament. That directive has been negotiated by the Council, which means that there is now a directive that we all do not think goes far enough. Where do you take the first step?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u44	I believe that we have taken that first step precisely by including it in the most recent directive. That directive is still under discussion. If we have asked to join, I think it is so neat to walk that route. Otherwise we will cycle through all kinds of directives. That is what the motion tabled by this Chamber was about. We must give this Secretary of State time to walk that path, but quickly. That's what I'm asking this Secretary of State. Tax avoidance is not so much about words but about actions. Today is a first step. As far as we are concerned, this is not the last step. I hope that the cabinet will continue to draw on this dossier in a European context, also in a missionary state. I hope the Secretary of State can promise me that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u45	With which we arrived at the end of the first term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u46	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u47	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, too, for the two first speeches. Many have pointed out that the speeches were rather different, but I have also seen agreements, such as the plea for the permanent employment contract for job security. That was warmly welcomed here. So let's count our blessings, too. It is interesting, moreover, that taxation is a great means of ultimately being able to talk about morality in a very technical legislative proposal in this case, a small modification of something that already exists. That's good. I think I can go into the story of Mr Van der Lee, who, as one of the maiden speakers, deserves to mention him at the beginning. I shall try to do the same with Mr Mulder, by the way. Mr. Van der Lee feels trapped between the merchant and the minister. I don't really belong to either. I'm usually seen as a combination of an old-fashioned world improver and a schoolmaster. I don't know what's better. I give him the merchant and the minister. However, this is where I stand. Several speakers have expressed a moral judgment. For example, Mr Nijboer spoke about a reasonable contribution to public services. Mrs Leijten has said that everyone must make a contribution and she spoke of a fair tax. We all agree on that, but the big one is: how? I'm sure we'll talk about that in the next few days. I am not going to make it very long on this point, but I do want to put down three things. The first is that it is not him in purely giving the certainty in advance, in terms of rulings. It's not always him either, but sometimes it is, in law. It is often in differences between systems or differences in the knowledge of the taxpayer and we resolve this with information exchange. That is what this proposal is about. My story is that the solution lies with the OECD. For decades too little progress has been made in combating tax avoidance. There was a great lack of common initiative. Constructions sometimes turned too much into a pillar of a locational climate. However, we now have a common initiative, the OECD. That is what the Netherlands has committed itself to and we are going to do so. I keep saying that it is and-and that there must also be a good locational climate. That's something to fight for, too. That's about the jobs of all those people who voted for you. This proposal is a technical change to something that has been there since 2016, namely country-by-country reporting between tax administrations. We are making this change on the basis of a European directive. It is a European implementation. It was established under the Dutch Presidency, but it is now in a bit of a hurry. I don't want to rush you, but the implementation date is June 5. Then it must be in the law and enter into force. The only way to do that is if we do not want to embarrass the First Chamber by holding the vote as soon as possible. Then the First Chamber will have some time. It is up to the Chamber, but I would like to say that I would very much like to implement this, so that the Netherlands can participate in the exchange of information, our main weapon against tax avoidance. This is about the procedural procedure. A lot of questions have been asked that are somehow related to the legislative proposal. I'd like to answer that first. Then I would like to address the questions about the public country-by-country reporting. That's another thing. I'll run the questions in order, but I've taken the questions about the public country-by-country reporting together for a while. That'll make it a little easier. Finally, I will deal with the two amendments tabled by Mrs Leijten. I shall therefore begin with the legislative proposal with the questions put by Mrs Leijten van de SP. The peer review has already started, because the peer review also covers legislation. The legislation we implement is also being checked here. Then it is also about the implementation of that legislation. It's started now. Things have to be reported about the reporting year 2016. We have a year to do that. So at the end of this calendar year, we'll know. Then it has to be exchanged. That's all under surveillance. That peer review process is a bit similar to the process we had at the time with the exchange of information on banking secrets. That has shown itself to be effective. I will come to the question of how many countries are involved and what deals do we have with it? However, most of the exchange agreements have been signed. Are there any big fines on that? If we are not already impressed by fines for specific companies, then it is the question whether we are impressed by fines for countries. There's something else going on here. The OECD countries are watching and the G20 is watching. You're gonna look like a fucking idiot if you're gonna make a mess of this place. The peer review process is therefore seen as something very serious. Mr Van der Lee specifically asked for dates. That's a little complicated, for two reasons. The whole peer review process has been worked out in detail in all different steps. I'm just gonna keep the schedule up. I hope that Mr Van der Lee will take a look, because then he will see a very large process. What binds us, Mr Van der Lee and me, is that we can't both read this. The letters are too small for me too. There's a lot on it, it's a whole process, a huge circus and that circus is being peer-reviewed very seriously. I think we can just have faith in that. Mr Van der Lee also asks about the fines. In between, he also asks for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yes, I was just wondering if in that beautiful schedule you showed me there is something about reporting, for example to parliaments of OECD countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u49	Can you read it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u50	No doubt, but I can't read that. But perhaps Mr Van der Lee's question is actually about reporting to this Chamber. I believe that this question has already been asked three times, so let me answer it, otherwise it will be so lame. I think it is good that, if this really gets going, I too in the Netherlands, and we can see what is being exchanged and also assess the success of the exchange of ourselves, report on this in the six-month reports of the Tax Administration. Let me just do this formally: I am now making a commitment that we will only see it coming into operation from the second quarter of 2018 onwards. Then I'll leave it to the Chamber to ask for further reports if necessary. I think we shouldn't make it crazy, because then we'll keep reporting, but I think it would be very useful to report at the beginning of this process. As far as there is an impression of a two-way traffic, we can report that kind of thing. That includes numbers. That's my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u51	I was one of those who asked for this. I welcome the commitment. I get the impression it's meant to be a one-time thing. I have a problem with the fact that at that time we do not know whether countries are choosing to take a fine. So I'd like to ask the Secretary of State to check if he wants to do this once. I get that he's saying he's not gonna do this until the end of time, because that doesn't make sense. However, once I think it is somewhat limited, also because I want to see in that report how many companies choose not to supply the information. I wonder if the Secretary of State already has that information at that time. When I look at the timetable, I doubt it. But I'd like to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u52	With regard to the question of fines, Mr Van Weyenberg was undoubtedly referring to companies rather than countries. Let's put it this way, I'll report on this in the six-month report. It's any time before the Chamber to report if they... I would like to say that we are doing it twice now, but if, after the first time, we think it has to be done three more times, that is up to the Chamber. So I'm just gonna leave that there. I will report the next time that we know something about this seriously. That's the time. If the Chamber needs more information, we'll just have to talk to each other about it and then I'll look for more information. Why don't we just do it like this? It's always like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u53	I just want to be able to keep my finger on the wrist a little wider. This is not only about whether countries cooperate sufficiently, but also about the image emerging from the exchange of country reports. What's in it for us? Mr Van der Lee asked for euros. That's not always relevant to me. If this openness means paying more taxes in developing countries and not with us, then I see that as a desirable outcome. I am thinking of companies that do not cooperate. I'll think about this for the second term, but I'm just looking for a reporting way to keep my finger on the wrist. I am concerned not only with the countries with which we have made this agreement, but also with the actions of companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u54	I do not wish to oppose in any way the finger that Mr Van Weyenberg thinks he should hold on to my wrist. So I watched him get at least two reports, but after that it is always up to him to indicate what else he wants to know. I will then try to meet that as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u55	Whether the Secretary of State promises two reports or ten or a hundred, I don't really care. I can imagine that the tax authorities and the Dutch authorities, for example, should already report on the approach adopted in order to control the OECD and the European Union. Those reports already account for questions such as "what exactly are you doing with these country reports and comparing them?" and "what actions have taken in response to this public information for the Tax Administration?'. It seems logical to me to simply send a copy of those reports to the Chamber. I think it's very simple to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u56	I don't know any reports like that. The quality of the legislation is being considered. I don't think the mistrust is entirely appropriate here. Let me just find out what's to report. In essence, it is being closely watched and we are simply kept to do so. This also applies to other countries and then to companies. I'd like to report on that, but let's not turn it into a reporting circus. The number one hundred, which Mrs Leijten calls, does not seem entirely appropriate to me. I'm gonna take a look at this. Perhaps there will be a second deadline and I can give a little more clarity as to whether there is anything to report in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u57	As far as I'm concerned, I said that the Secretary of State doesn't need to re-report if he's just sending a copy of what he has to report under this bill. So it's a little weird to say that I'm asking for a reporting circus. The Secretary of State just said that if you don't play along with these rules, you're a monkey. How can we check whether a country is a monkey? How will the OECD and the G20, which, as has been said, monitor this? It seems to me that this is done through a certain degree of reporting. The Secretary of State just showed us a giant organogram. There will also be a degree of reporting in this regard. My question came from over there. It will probably have to be reported. Just send a copy of that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u58	I fully understand the question. The answer is that in the second term I will look at what there would be to report in concrete terms. I do not mean that we have to do something new for that, but that we have to look at what already exists. I understood the question immediately; it is clear. I understand the question and I will come back to that in the second term. Mr Van der Lee asked whether the fines should not be higher. Of course, you can ask that question in all kinds of areas. There are even parties who constantly ask for an increase in fines, but that has not been Mr Van der Lee's party so far. The fines are the same as for domestic administrative obligations and for other international exchange obligations. I do not think it is appropriate to make one fine different from the other in the context of international exchange. Fines have been chosen for all these obligations and similar obligations at a certain level. Make no mistake: in the end, criminal prosecution and imprisonment are even possible. It also leads to image damage. In all honesty: the question of the level of fines may always be asked, but that question must then be viewed more genericly and less fragmentaryly. You're gonna have to look at the whole field of fines. I do not think that we should do this separately for this single amendment to an already existing legislative proposal. There really should be a much broader question. My proposal would be to leave that consideration at another time in the context of this smaller technical amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u59	I have a question about that. In my view, we all agree that it is very important that this law be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u61	But we also agree that the law has to work. The creation of room for a higher fine does not mean that the higher fine must be imposed each time. I am not entirely clear when the time comes to act in criminal matters. Is that even after one offense? Is it not appropriate that the fine can be raised if several times are not reported? With all due respect, €20,000 has too little impact on companies with that size. Isn't it convenient to opt for a higher category in the law? Then it is still possible to actually impose a lower fine on the basis of the seriousness of the infringement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u62	I propose that the fines should not be determined by the present bill, but I believe that Mr Van der Lee himself is saying the same thing. This is already in the law; from 1-116 this is law. So there's a fine on that. I cannot support the claim that it is too low for the time being, because there is no feeling that fines for domestic administrative obligations and for administrative obligations in the context of international data exchange are too low. There's no such impression. I'm not sure we should suspect that here either. This is about the exchange of data between tax administrations. In principle, tax administrations have more dangerous business data than this. So I do not know whether we should be specifically concerned about the level of fines, even with the amendment to the existing bill. It may well be that this conclusion should be drawn after reading the two progress reports that Mr Van Weyenberg has just asked for, but let us come to conclusions when we can come to conclusions. After all, it goes a little far to say in advance that something that has so far just worked would not work anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u63	I understand that on your part, but if that is the situation, and if we have to intervene, we still have to go through the circus of changing the law. All this is delaying, while I believe that a majority in the Chamber would like this law to be implemented in practice as soon as possible. Then I do not see very much what opposes the inclusion in the law of the possibility of higher fines than in the proposal you have put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u64	There is, for example, opposition to the fact that there is always a balance with other types of fines. According to the reasoning that there is never anything against a fine because you always impose it only when something goes wrong, you could increase the fines infinitely. There is always a balance in the system of fines, which has been considered once and which has been established in years of legal practice. Certain fines apply to categories of business. Now we put something in that category; at least, we did that on 1-1-16. We have added a certain administrative obligation to a certain category. That's where the fines come in. Then I do not know whether, apart from broader considerations, it is wise to raise those fines before there is an impression that something is not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u65	Finally, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u66	In itself, I do follow that reasoning, if it is not a category of companies which are the largest we know and which have a turnover of more than 750 million, if not very many billions. I can imagine that in that category you would make a different assessment and create the possibility in the law to impose a higher fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u67	I still have that imagination, but I think there's a logical order: first see if there's any reason to think that this doesn't work and then, in a broader consideration, rethink those fines. I invite this Chamber to make that assessment after the progress reports I have promised Mrs Leijten and Mr Van Weyenberg. That would be my move.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u68	There are several things that can deter a company and ensure timely reporting. One is the amount of the fine; Mr Van der Lee spoke about it. Two is the disclosure of the fine. Can we ever find out that here is a company that doesn't publish? How can we see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u69	The fine can also lead to image damage by having to be included in the company's annual report under certain conditions, depending on the nature of the offence. This means that it becomes known and perhaps it has a more important effect than the fine itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u70	I hear in the middle of the sentence "depending on the offence." When is it mandatory in the annual report? When is the fine not in there? Wouldn't it be more convenient just to make that fine public? It does not need to be increased, but then we know which companies have not complied with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u71	Here too, proportionality plays a role. If a company would be late or incomplete due to all kinds of circumstances, and it will be completed later, there may be something else going on than when a company systematically refuses. I am sure that Mr Omtzigt agrees with me that there should also be a balance and proportionality. His exact question is: when this, when that. I don't know, but if that's important to gain support for this technical bill, I want to find out. However, this is not news; this is existing practice. This concerns the possible fines and penalties in the context of administrative obligations. That doesn't change anything; we already have this. Again, I think it would be unwise to think specifically about the whole fine practice on the basis of this small change. I invite the Chamber not to do that now. I would like to look up the answer to the precise question and then I will come back to that in the second term. However, I invite Mr Omtzig to take a moment's notice of this and, if he considers it necessary to reflect on fines, to address them at an appropriate time and in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u72	I would like to hear in second time, and if necessary in writing for the votes, how this can be done. Indeed, if a company is a week late, there is really no reason to open up or impose a maximum fine, but if it happens consciously and therefore a higher fine is imposed, I would like to know whether the means of coercion are sufficient to ensure that this is complied with. It is not such a crazy question when you consider that the exchange of rulings is also well regulated in the law, but that the practice turns out to be a bit more uncomfortable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u73	This last remark was certainly not about specific companies. Mr Omtzig means something quite different, but we are having this debate next week and not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr Van Weyenberg, you have just been here. Did you forget something?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u75	No, not at this particular point. I have to think about the parallel with the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate is now making public all the inspection results, especially if they ultimately lead to an administrative fine. On the website of the Labour Inspectorate you can see exactly which organisation has been checked, what has been found and whether a fine has been imposed. I am aware that this is a slightly different case, but I would think it a little bit wider about the disclosure of companies that do not comply with the rules. I understand the Secretary of State says he can't just do something about that right now. I'm actually very curious about the Secretary of State's way of thinking. We are looking for openness in a way that can be done. My lack of enthusiasm at this stage about Mrs Leijten's proposals is well known, but it seems interesting to me to explore this openness here. Is the Secretary of State prepared to give that consideration to the question of how to make it public with some public taking and shaming of companies that have actually been fined, an irrevocable fine, we agree, because it must be clear that you have made the mistake? May I challenge the Secretary of State to think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u76	We do that from time to time. Mr Omtzigt even asked the specific question: when then? Let me see if I can answer that in the second term. I will leave it to Mr Van Weyenberg to decide whether he needs further consideration at another time. Shall we do it like this? It's not like there's a fence there or we would never do that. Mr Van der Lee also asks whether the border should be lowered in the long term. On the more specific requests made by Mr Van der Lee's neighbor, I shall deal with the amendments. I would like to go into that in more detail. In general, it's not a crazy question. It's also an interesting question. The answer to this is not necessarily that it should not be. The answer is "s' and, in that sense, it is similar to the previous issue "s' that it might be possible, but that it is good to wait for the evaluation first. The evaluation will be carried out in 2020. A border is a European agreement. All countries must take part in this. That evaluation must shed light on whether it is sensible. That is, of course, a trade-off, but I shall come back to that later between the administrative burden and the usefulness of it. So I'm not saying no, but I'm not saying yes. I am merely saying that this is a question that we must raise in the context of the evaluation. Furthermore, I would like to say to Mr Van der Lee that I will bring this in in order to ensure that it is included in the evaluation. Mr Van der Lee also asked whether the Chamber could be told how much extra revenue this would yield; an interesting question in terms of monitoring and transparency. In theory, you would expect that if something is meant to also detect tax avoidance, at some point more tax revenues will emerge, but it is not so easy to tell how much. An important part of the behaviour is, I am sure, preventive. So we never see that. In fact, if we were to try to indicate what has actually been established, apart from the fact that we are finding it difficult, because cause and effect are woolly.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So I think we should rest on the idea that it is likely to make a useful contribution, but that we will never know exactly how big that contribution is. That is sad, because we always want to measure the effects of our policies, but I do not think we can do that here. I don't see any chance of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u77	I can imagine something about that when it comes to determining it very precisely, even at the level of individual companies. It does, of course, touch a broader question that will also play next week when we talk about the rulings. It has more to do with the question of what the effective tax burden of this group of companies is, how closely we monitor them and how well we are able to analyse why they are developing in a particular direction. What I've seen, and I'm not pretending to be an expert, is that this effective pressure has gone down hard since the 1990s. Several factors play a role in this. If there is a stabilisation in the formal rate, you can keep track of how the effective tax burden develops and whether there is a yes or no impact. I think you can really give us an analysis on that and say some sensible things about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u78	The issue raised by Mr Van der Lee is actually much more interesting than the precise operation of this proposal. He poses a theorem and asks a question. He asks how we know how the tax burden is developing. That is, of course, an interesting question, because a year ago the SOMO report produced that large companies over a certain limit experienced an average VPB pressure of 22.5%. Frankly, I find that a reassuringly high percentage. But, of course, we have to keep an eye on that in individuals and companies. His claim was that companies have started to pay less and less taxes. I sent a letter about this to the Chamber one and a half or two years ago, the so-called Vpb analysis. This shows that this would not be the case on a structural basis. I invite Mr Van der Lee to read that letter and come back to it again with me during a cup of coffee.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u79	I will be happy to do so, but I am concerned about this particular group of companies and not about the pressure on all companies. That's a big deal. I'm curious if it's possible to zoom in on that more. Maybe the Secretary of State already did that in that letter. I will certainly read the letter, because I may be able to learn a lot from it, but I still think there is more to it than is happening at the moment. I hope the Secretary of State will study that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u80	I find the development of the tax burden interesting for companies in any case, but also the difference between large and small. The truth may look different from Mr Van der Lee's assumption. That is a very interesting subject, but, as I say at the same time, not in this context. I am not able to report specifically from the mechanism country-by-country reporting or from the changes we are talking about now what the effect is. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u81	The Secretary of State has just begun, so I actually want to suggest... But I see that Mrs Leijten wishes to intervene on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u82	This answer surprises me. The Secretary of State says that for a very long time we have only had the climate of establishment in mind when it comes to taxation, but now it is also about morality. The OECD picked that up. With information exchange, we have the most important weapon against tax avoidance in our hands. When it comes to how we can monitor whether this works, the Secretary of State says that he really cannot put the effectiveness of this measure on paper. How does this relate to each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u83	One-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u84	You're celebrating this bill as an information tool that gives us a sharp weapon to counter tax avoidance. If the question is then asked to follow to what extent, then the Secretary of State says: no, I cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u85	We have all kinds of measures which we find useful here, for example all kinds of measures within the framework of tax morality. We all find them useful. What is the effect of improving tax morals? We cannot see that correctly, but we know that it works and that it is useful. That's why we're doing it. Unfortunately, it is not possible to determine the impact of each policy measure individually. Sometimes we can see how things are going at aggregated level. For example, for some groups of taxpayers, we can measure the compliance deficit. For other cases, we can measure how often we can intervene on something. This particular legislative proposal is not possible, but that does not mean that it does not make sense or that it does not fit in with the policy. I don't see any contradiction there.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u86	I follow Mr Van der Lee when he says that it may be difficult to see how much more tax is being paid per company or per country and how much more tax is coming in. However, this instrument is seen as an instrument for regulating tax avoidance that becomes less easy and is countered. If there's that effect, can't you just measure it? And if that effect isn't there, what are we doing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u87	Well, we all think it's useful and there's an effect, born from logic and qualitative. But we can't establish it exactly. That's not how taxation works digitally either. Detection, control and enforcement are all matters that benefit from many different signals and a very intelligent interpretation of them. We are adding one signal, but we cannot determine what the effect is isolated from that signal. That's too bad, because I'd like to know, too, but we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u89	Mr Van der Lee asks how we involve stakeholders. That was almost a maiden speech-like question, but let me briefly answer it. The cabinet tries to keep in touch with social groups. We consult laws. All kinds of different civil society organisations are on our necks. In addition to that, we have one wonderful instrument that guarantees that we are in the midst of society, and that is called the representative of the people. He just joined and so I'm looking in his direction and he's looking in mine. For example, we have a joint task to ensure that we don't do things over everyone's head. Mr Mulder has made a heart-warming plea for lower taxes. I'm always happy to hear that. Further questions are addressed in his further career in this job and I am delighted to see that. Mr Omtzigt has requested that there he is! It is important to note that there is a risk that the underlying directive will be implemented differently in other Member States, so that it will also play a role in the business environment. This is certainly not the result of an underlying directive, because 95% of these ideas have been in the law since 1-116. In any case, therefore, the directive has very little to do with it. You can ask about the instrument: does it lead to different interpretations? No! There are a lot of countries involved and they are all being reviewed. They can't do it any other way either, because there's a prescription on how to do it. We have not only the peer review but also a special group that tunes interpretation questions and ensures that everyone does it in the same way. So it has been secured in all kinds of ways that exactly that cannot happen. It shouldn't happen, because then the good guys will be punished. Mr Omtzigt's other question is, as far as I am concerned, 'I am saying that with appreciation 'an omtzigt-special' in the sense that it is a very detailed question. I suspect he may even have had contact with the NOB about this. It is then about the reporting year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u90	Others, but experts.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u91	Yeah. By the way, I would not like to remove the name "Omvertigt" from the list of experts, but... He asks whether the group file may be connected to the financial year of the parent entity. I don't think he means the group file, because group files are just flat data. There is no need to bring this into line, because it simply contains data on the company and its subsidiaries. That's why I think he means the country report. If that's what he means, the answer is yes. Mr Omtzigt asked several questions about the exchange of rulings and the numbers. I looked it up just as quickly and it showed that the answer to all these questions is addressed in the answers I send to the Chamber in the context of the written consultation. From an efficiency point of view, I would suggest that I take them into account and that he gets answers to his questions in this way. Mrs De Vries wants to know whether there are any problems to be expected. Is the IRS ready? She's actually asking. There's a whole team in place. That team's been working on it for a year. Several members of the team are also present in the building to follow what you are doing, as they would like to meet the implementation date. Specialists have been appointed to deal with this. ICT is approaching its completion. In the autumn of 2017 it will be put into operation, but the first real release date is of course only mid-2018. An automatic risk analysis shall also be carried out on the reports. In total, these are numbers that can be achieved, because where we have to exchange thousands of rulings, 150 parent entities initially make a contribution to the Dutch Tax Administration. We get roughly twenty-fold back from other tax administrations. So we do not have to draw up these country reports ourselves, but they have to go through risk analysis. All in all, it's the thought that's going to happen. Mr Van Weyenberg has just secured this by asking for an additional progress report. Mrs De Vries has asked about the countries. Mr Nijboer did the same. "Gut, why don't we do this international anymore?" He was wondering. We are, of course, doing so, because this is a European directive which only slightly changes what we do in the OECD context. OECD is made up of 34 countries, but much more are involved in this. So one of the most successful initiatives of the OECD is really back in the field of taxation; I have already said the word'revolution' before. There are already 57 multilateral signatures. In addition, there are countries that do not participate in the OECD thing, but also in the EU. That's ten more. There are also countries with which we have bilateral agreements. All in all, more than 70 countries are now actively implementing this. So it's very international. In addition, there are countries that are likely to jump on the wagon later. Developing countries have been expressly warmly invited to participate. Several do the same, such as Senegal, Gabon and Nigeria. I would also like to say to Mrs Leijten and Mr Van der Lee that the more we find tax avoidance on this basis, the more we can help to combat this tax avoidance in developing countries. After all, this is about international companies. If you have a bite somewhere, it will benefit all the countries involved, including developing countries. Specifically, the UK has been asked for. We have a directive here, but that's just a little thing. The real proposal is OECD... Excuse me, it's not a proposal: the real thing is OECD. There is a Brexit from the Union, but not from the OECD. The British simply continue to participate in this OECD spirit. We also wish them to do so in other areas, otherwise the atmosphere will become more grim. Mr Nijboer asked for a code of fiscal governance. How does the government feel about that? A non-compulsory code is something that companies should actually do themselves. Where companies don't, we have the law. We're from the law and the companies are from the code. In that respect, we very much believe in "hard law." If we really think that a certain form of openness, a certain behavior is useful and if it does not come about by itself, we have the legislator. This includes Mr Nijboer. That's how we're supposed to do it, I think. But there's something contradictory in it when you push the government in front of the voluntary code cart. I would therefore like to refer here to the legislative instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u92	With regard to taxation, I very much agree with the Secretary of State. We are not going to impose them a little voluntarily and ask the sector. However, with regard to corporate governance, a whole book has been written on the question of what corporate social responsibility is. What do we mean by that? What's the minimum we have to do? The sector could also do this in terms of taxation and tax contributions. Eventually, it is regulated by law; there is a legal hook in the corporate governance code that is currently being modified. So indirectly, we'll put it in the law. Now, of course, we can write this code all by ourselves, but it works that way that we can pronounce it by motion or that the cabinet can do it. After all, the cabinet will eventually lay it down in the law. So it's not exactly like taxes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yes, I can see that there is a shade of grey in between, but I think that the things we want in the tax area might fit into the category for which legislation is more appropriate. But I don't have the final answer either. Perhaps we can further develop the idea in the further discussion. For the time being, it doesn't make me hot, but it won't be the last time I'm getting any more convincing. But this debate may not be the perfect place for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u94	Actually, it's about corporate behavior. It is about the question of what kind of company is actually decent to do and what responsibility it has towards society. The PvdA has views on this. It would be good if business took over. If it doesn't do that on its own, maybe we should come up with a law. Within the framework of the corporate governance code, I will certainly bring that up again, because I think that is an elementary thing in society. If a company benefits from all collective provisions, it must also contribute and account for the way it does so. However, we will discuss this in other places. That is what the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Finance are all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u95	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Bij die algemene woorden kan ik niet anders dan knikken.]] I agree again. Mr Van Weyenberg asked why I am so optimistic about the progress. I think we've arranged it nicely. It's being reported and we're gonna follow it. Based on what I've seen, I expect the IRS to be able to handle this for the time being. Mr Van Weyenberg also wants to know what the obligation to notify means. Not all texts were immediately accessible. So I can imagine something about that question. Of course, information is being collected. It may be that a certain Dutch company has a mother outside Europe or outside the OECD area and that mother refuses to provide the information so that that information cannot be obtained from the subsidiary. That could happen. That can happen, because we don't have everyone in the world on strings. The intention of the notification is that you then formally report this as a company. Even if you didn't formally report it, you might be fined. It is therefore really a formal moment when it is established that a particular entity cannot fulfil its obligation, because it cannot enforce the information it needs to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u96	I suppose these were the last words of the Secretary of State on the obligation to notify. So, if I understand correctly, I have to see this as follows. On the one hand, it's like a stick behind the door. If someone can't deliver what we agreed on, they have to report it on their own initiative, instead of the Tax Administration looking like Sherlock Holmes. On the other hand, it means that that entity does not have to pay a fine, for example, because it has no debt to the situation. That's how it works both ways. Did I get that right? It seems to me that it is quite a big and complicated task for the Tax Administration to find out whether an entity in the Netherlands has actually failed to provide information, despite all well-meaning efforts. Is it foreseen that there will be a lot of work in this? I'm trying to get a sense of the detective work that's coming from behind this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u97	There might be some detective work. I can't tell you exactly how much detective work that is. We are going to see that at some point. We will, of course, find out in which cases it is successful and in which cases it is not. Mr Van Weyenberg had another question, but I do not know if his question is really his question. I'm looking at him right now, and I'm trying to get his attention. He asked why the U.S. didn't participate in the MLI. I think he meant why the US didn't participate in the multilateral instrument on country-by-country reporting. That's what he meant, I understand. I don't know why the U.S. isn't part of that. They do participate in country-by-country reporting, but through bilateral agreements. The bilateral agreement with the United States was recently concluded, even yesterday, in my view. So they do participate, but have a different type of agreement in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u98	I had not chosen my words carefully enough; thank you for pointing this out to me by the Secretary of State. I still don't understand what profit the Americans see in this. That is ultimately their consideration, but this seems to me to be a lot of extra work. Why does everything have to be arranged with them in Washington at the gate? Is that because they don't want to give up power? This seems to me to be a lot of extra work for the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u99	You'd say so, but I don't have much of a feeling about that. I have to say, I've stopped formulating transatlantic feelings. Then we get to the point of public country-by-country reporting. The Chamber, and I remember in particular the SP, has made it clear that it wants this. That has become the position of the Netherlands. We are in favour of public country-by-country reporting. In the beginning, the cabinet was waiting because it wanted to see an impact assessment first. Then there was a positive verdict, but with three motions the Chamber made it quite clear that it wanted this. The Netherlands is therefore in favour of this. The Netherlands has also advocated public country-by-country reporting in many ways. We defended that position in Brussels. There have also been changes in our position, because the principle of 'pass or explain' was first incorporated into it and then disappeared from it. But that's all motivated by the Chamber's approach. What is the current state of affairs? There's a text. It has not yet been ratified, because the legal basis is still under discussion. Moreover, I do not think that the Netherlands has much problem with the legal basis. We'll have to wait and see. The Maltese Presidency has set up the Council working group and we need to see where that is going. In all honesty, I can share few first-hand experiences with that, because the annual report law is entirely in the field of V and J. It doesn't belong to Finance and it's not specifically fiscal either. So there is little I can say about it other than that the Netherlands has the commitment that the Netherlands has and that we have to wait and see what comes out of it. That's all I have to say about it. The colleague of V and J is working on that. The cabinet speaks with one mouth, but it is not mine in this case. I think that, with perhaps a little less depth than you would have hoped, I can answer these questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u100	Whether the government's position has been changed by the use of the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u101	I'm just giving it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u102	That's good. One of my questions is which countries are obstructing Europe. Which countries don't want it? Maybe the Secretary of State doesn't know now because he's not at that table, but could he let us know?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u103	It's a little uncomfortable to discuss a colleague's file here. I will pass the questions on to my colleague in one way or another. Let me manage the expectations. It is not too common to clap out of the school about what is going on in council work groups. For example, we often find ourselves in this trap with Ecofin. I see that Mr Van Weyenberg, who has been through this circus, nods. I guided the question, but I think I have already given the answer here, namely that we will not know this at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u104	The national parliaments control their governments when it comes to the negotiations in Europe. Then there are the negotiations in Europe, but we must not know how they are going. This is a major problem with the decision-making processes in Europe. At the moment when certain countries are obstructed, we could try to chase things down through those national parliaments. We can't do that right now. That's a little crazy. I ask the Secretary of State not to give the answer here, but to point out to his colleague in the field of security and justice that the Chamber really wants to know, as publicly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u105	I will pass that on, but at the same time my management of expectations remains in place. As we do not review the whole policy of fines in the entire administrative sphere here, we will not review the European legislative machinery in a single debate in the Chamber. I'd like to be modest.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u106	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u107	I'm just getting a mint...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yeah, I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u109	The Secretary of State will come to the amendments. Let this be a reaction to his reaction: we are waiting for European decision-making and we are not going to do anything else. It is precisely because we do not see and cannot follow this European decision-making that we need to take steps at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u110	I thought the Secretary of State had spoken out about making that information public. I still had a question about it. What expectations does he have, also on the basis of his own expertise, of the choice made with this system, which is quite complex, also because it makes information exchange agreements possible between countries? It expects quite a bit, including those of developing countries that have serious capacity issues, apart from other issues in those countries such as legal uncertainty. Is a system in which that information is public not much easier to use and will it not also lead to results much faster? Wouldn't it be his personal preference to work towards such a system?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u111	Let me give up personal preferences; they don't matter. I'm trying to carry out a wish from the Chamber here. What I myself think of that should be Mr Van der Lee's sausage. I don't think it's gonna be any easier, but that question is irrelevant. The commitment of the Netherlands in Europe is clear. It's just like I said. I wonder if it'll make it easier, but the stakes are the stakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u112	I would ask you to turn now to Mrs Leijten's amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u113	I think that is always the disadvantage of sitting at the back, and Mrs Schouten's questions have been passed by. I shall now turn to the amendments. If it is correct, administratively speaking, I am not so strong as to make the amendments to the documents Nos. 10 and 12. The amendment in part No. 10 is about the obligation to publish. It's about some kind of national public country-by-country reporting, so to speak. I would like to say two things about this. The first is that I do not think we should take unilateral steps on this point. That has always been the cabinet position. I believe that we should take steps together here and that we should also give the European machine a moment and a chance to settle this. We need to keep pressure on it. I think it would be wise to maintain that commitment in Europe. We should not take unilateral steps here now, not even because we can be accused of infecting something which the Chamber attaches to and which is considered socially useful, with the idea that a level playing field could no longer be created here. I don't think we should do that to the ideas. That is the first point. Then there is the second point. If the Chamber is not going to want to operate in this line, which I would advise against, I would advise it not to regulate it in this way, not in the Corporate Tax Act. Because it's gonna be a mess. Similar obligations exist elsewhere, namely in the Trade Register Act. In any case, it is necessary for the findability and clarity to put it in there. If such an amendment were to be tabled, I would still advise against it, but in any case it would be less burdensome in legal terms. I would like to give that to the author of the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u114	Let me start with the second point, the technical point. I'm sure our unsavory employees at Bureau of Legislation are listening. I will consult with them to at least make this technically correct. Then the technique cannot be the reason to reject this. Then there is the first point. We should not take unilateral steps. The government has decided to self-regulate when it comes to making your country report public: in which countries are you active and in which countries do you pay taxes? That is a unilateral step. It is not imposed by the OECD regulations and the European directive that we are implementing here. It has been a choice of the Dutch Government to meet the Chamber, which has said that it wants just public country reports. He says: we ask multinationals to do so, and if they don't, they have to explain. That is a unilateral further step, isn't it? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u115	Not every one-sided step is equally objectionable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u116	So a unilateral step that the government is taking is less objectionable than a one-sided step that meets what this Chamber really wants: public country reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u117	One-sided steps that do not affect the playing field are less serious than one-sided steps that affect the playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u118	Now there's a proposal from this government that says you're giving country reports to the Tax Office and you can't make them public either, but you have to explain why you don't. In fact, the government expects multinationals operating in the Netherlands with this bill to make them public. If they don't, there's the element of "pass and explain." This is a unilateral step that goes beyond what is proposed in EU legislation and the OECD Directive. All I'm saying is that we shouldn't self-regulation in making it public, with that 'pass or explain', but we should just settle it for all of us. What exactly is the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u119	Of course, companies are free to disclose their own data at any time. I have said it before and stick to my previous answer: obligations that may affect the playing field are more difficult than steps that do not affect the playing field. I think it's so clear. That's not weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u120	Finally, Mrs Leijten, there is also a second deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u121	But, Mr President, I have asked extensively for this! I had a lot of talk about self-regulation, the question of why it is appropriate and the fact that we, the Netherlands, are saying: we are simply doing these country reports publicly, because we have a parliament that would like to do so; we are bringing it into the European discussion, but we are going to do so at least. What you give to the Tax Administration, we also make public if it is not sensitive business data. No, the Dutch government doesn't want to impose it, but if you don't, you have to explain why. All multinationals in the Netherlands have now heard that the Secretary of State considers that this is a breach of the level playing field. So they will not do it. Then why is it in there? Then why was the step chosen: make it public and if you don't do it, you have to explain? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u122	There is nothing against seeking public access or calling for public access, but it is something else to take unilateral steps that could disrupt the playing field. That's always a trade-off. From this step, I say that it is one step too far in the context of a level playing field. Nevertheless, I would like to insist on regulating this at European level and taking this step together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u123	I have always understood that 'pass or explain' was also the Dutch commitment to a European agreement in Brussels, but that may be up to me. My question is another one. I would have asked whether, if Mrs Leijten's amendment were to succeed, Dutch entities would receive information from other countries at all. Although there is now an obligation to exchange by the OECD agreements, are countries also obliged to share this information with the Netherlands if it is made public in the Netherlands, which is not in the European agreements and the OECD agreements? I am concerned that the flow of information to the Netherlands is drying up. I don't hear the Secretary of State say that, but there was still a concern on my part.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u124	There will have to be a very different way of working with information that we receive from other tax administrations, which you will in principle receive on the basis of exchange between tax administrations. That could be a problem with its delivery. So the answer to Mr Van Weyenberg's concern is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u125	I was mainly concerned with the fact that a Dutch entity needs information from, for example, the mother. Will the mother who does give if that information is made public in the Netherlands, to which I believe there is no international obligation on the basis of the OECD or the EU? I'm a little concerned that in Paris or wherever it is, they're just saying: you won't get a drop of information for Dutch reporting anymore. Then we shot ourselves in the foot. That's where I care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u126	I share that concern. That is one of the reasons for doing this together. The success of the fight against tax avoidance always has two characteristics. It is very often about information and it is about taking steps at the same time. Until now, unilateral things or things with which the information did not end up with the tax authorities have always been less successful. Our success model is to exchange information and take steps simultaneously. I come to the amendment to item No. 12. That overlaps with that in part No. 10. I would like to take a quick look at Mrs Leijten; does this also say that the turnover limit goes from 750 to 40?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mrs. Leijten, please speak in the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u128	Right. Not for the public records, but for the country reports, huh? Yes. Well, two things play a role: how much extra burden does that give and how much extra use does it make? We now have 150 own-country reports, which we have to process. That's gonna be a couple of thousands soon. I mean, there are carts to buy. The OECD - we are still doing this in the OECD context - sees very little point in this. We already cover 90% of global cross-border sales. So it doesn't make much sense, but it does produce a lot of paper, paper with which we would have to do something again afterwards. We get a lot of paper and then we have to exchange all these country reports. Well, those foreign tax authorities are waiting for us. Then all of a sudden there's carts full of paper. The tax authorities are probably not going to do anything about that in the exchange, because they have a turnover limit. Here too I would say: let's start somewhere. Let's start with this proposal. The OECD has given this a lot of thought. I have great respect for the work of the OECD in this area. We'll evaluate that in 2020. One of the things we're looking at is the border. It will be part of the evaluation. Is this the right amount? Is it too high or is it too low? This will enable us to discuss this again. But I do not feel like doing something one-sided here which, with all certainty, creates an additional burden, a multiple of the burden we have now, but has no obvious benefits. I therefore reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u129	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. We now move on to the second term of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u130	Mr. Chairman. People are grumpy that they do pay taxes and pay contributions, when they hear that companies are offered all kinds of constructions, that they do not have to disclose them and that there is no less than 90 billion in tax revenues in countries that still have to develop themselves, regardless of the much larger amount that Western countries miss. It makes people grumpy. The bill before us is about an instrument that this Secretary of State called a revolution. When a SP'er hears the word "revolution," he jumps up, turns his ears and thinks: now it's about to begin. But then the same Secretary of State says that this revolution is ultimately ineffectual. Then the SP'er collapses again like a kind of pudding, because that is a bit crazy. I am pleased that this Secretary of State has said he will keep us informed. I'm also pleased that he's going to evaluate the turnover limit, but I think it's a big deal if he says it's a revolution to say: yes, but I can't give guarantees about the effects. When you say that information exchange is the most important weapon against tax avoidance, it is crazy to say that, unfortunately, we cannot measure its effect. I regret that the information does not become public. I also regret that it is not going to apply to all companies operating internationally. If the effect of tax avoidance cannot be measured, how are we going to measure the effect of the 750 million? What do we do when companies are going to reject strategic business lines in order not to comply with this disclosure obligation? This is not related to all the sensible questions put by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Omtzigt about the fine regime, which is far too low. We are always having an age-old discussion in this Chamber about whether you should do something at national, European or global level. Of course, you have to work together where you can, but if that is ultimately the big stumbling block because there is international training and it is not clear who is doing that, then you have to take the first step at national level. That was my plea today. The Netherlands is often coloured on it when it comes to tax constructions. Next week we are going to have a spicy debate on this. Now that there is something we can do, we need to wait for international steps. That's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u131	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for all the congratulations. I'm very happy about that. I really enjoyed having my maiden speech on this subject. I trust that we will continue to discuss this subject very regularly. I have asked a number of questions which I would like to discuss for a very long time, including with the Secretary of State and the Chamber, but I would like to confine myself to the substance of this proposal. I am really in favour of this law and I will recommend that my group vote in favour. Then the law can enter as soon as possible, because he is very welcome. However, I still see opportunities for improvement, especially in the future. I welcome the commitments on reporting. I also tasted a lot more enthusiasm than I expected from the Secretary of State for the assessment of whether we can lower the turnover limit in the future. The enthusiasm for this was greater than the enthusiasm for promoting transparency and openness. As far as the latter is concerned, the Secretary of State is more on the line: there is an address to the House, and I am carrying it out. I don't taste any enthusiasm from that. I am concerned about this, given the fact that the Netherlands does not have such a good track record in terms of openness, transparency and information exchange. I shall come back to that in other debates, but I would ask the Secretary of State to explain why he is enthusiastic about lowering the turnover limit in the future if it all works and results, but he prefers to keep it as it is and to exchange it between tax administrations rather than make it much more public. The latter also makes it possible for stakeholders, who are really a little more remote now and who do not have knowledge and information, to participate in the discussion about this. I think that's really necessary. So I'd like to get an explanation about that. I understand the Secretary of State's reasoning on fines, but I think it would be wise to create in law for those who might impose fines the possibility of exceeding the fixed limit. I am going to table an amendment on that and we are going to see if the Chamber is prepared to support it. Our final decision could take into account what the Secretary of State is going to promise on the disclosure of fines imposed. I am therefore very interested in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u132	This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Mr Van Weyenberg, you have something to say. I thought you didn't want to use the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u133	No, Mr. Chairman, that was a misunderstanding. I am not going to table a motion, but I would like to return to two points from the first term. The Secretary of State is indeed going to say something about making those fines public, now and perhaps later a little wider. I understand you can't see that in isolation. In this context, I very much believe in naming-and-shaming. We have seen this, for example, at the Labour Inspectorate. Companies don't like being made transparent that they don't follow the rules. This is based on preventive action. So I look forward to what else is being said. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to keep us informed of the implementation and implementation of this law in practice. I am referring not only to the cooperation between tax authorities but also to what he finds in the country-by-country reports. That is important to know, because we can see, for example, how many countries are fined. I would personally find that the best order, as I say to Mr Van der Lee. However, we should not underestimate what all these disclosures between tax administrations are doing. If one party has an interest in saying that another tax administration may not be doing well and has negotiated some of its tax revenues away, then it is an tax administration. I assume that tax administrations will question each other sharply, but I also believe in the power of disclosure; at European level, but preferably in the OECD context.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u134	The Secretary of State can respond immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u135	Mr. Chairman. I stand by my words that the OECD spirit must be seen as a revolution in international taxation. I also think that we should talk about this with a great deal of respect. I wouldn't like Mrs. Leijten, as she says herself, to be a pudding ineekt. Then she gets soft and sweet. I don't know if that's the image she's looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u136	Mrs Leijten, this is a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u137	Reputations are there to keep up, but I say to the Secretary of State: sometimes I'm very sweet, but that's usually when I sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u138	Thank you for sharing this with us!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u139	I will do everything I can to put Mrs Leijten to sleep over the next few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u140	Mr Van der Lee assumes a lack of enthusiasm about public country-by-country reporting. But this is just the Dutch position. And as for that personal enthusiasm, maybe I was a little too phlegmatic. However, this is the Dutch position, and this is not being done in an international context, either faintly or patheticly. This is a fair view. As I say to Mr Van der Lee, but also to Mr Van Weyenberg, I have not succeeded in putting together a thorough argument on the disclosure of fines in the various jurisdictions. I have to keep the answer to that for a while. I must also honestly say that, in connection with the workload that exists in the department at the moment, it is possible to imagine that I am a little reluctant to undertake a very comprehensive study on this matter. I imagine we'll find another opportunity for that. I now tend to be a little cautious about making promises, because life must also be manageable. At the moment, there is still quite a few things that concern us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u141	I understand it didn't work out in this time frame. All right, all right, all right, By the way, it was the Secretary of State who wanted to see it wider...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u142	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u143	... then just this point. I'm looking a little bit, and look at Mr Van der Lee. The following is relevant. The value of the fine is not only in the amount but also in the potential image damage caused by an organisation, a company. Perhaps it will be possible to indicate in a brief note before the vote how the fines are being made public at the moment and whether there is anything else that could be done on that point. Of course, I do not want to mow Mr Van der Lee away with his first amendment, but if what is proposed in it is not necessary, if it is perhaps already foreseen in the current way of disclosure and if it is perhaps also able to count on the enthusiasm of the Secretary of State, then we can spare ourselves that. So I'm looking for a little pragmatic. Not sweet and not sour, so I say to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u144	I am not only aware that it has not been possible to make an appropriate argument on this issue, but also that I have to reduce the expectations of disclosure in this particular case. I'm actually saying I don't know now. But the Chamber doesn't know about that either. I'll make a very short note.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr Van der Lee, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u146	This answer does strengthen my intention to table the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u147	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u148	That's what I'm gonna do. I would like to come back to what you said about the other amendments. You make a difference between different amendments. For example, you are referring to an amendment that changes the playing field, i.e. an amendment that potentially pulls a card out of the house of cards, which is causing everything to fall apart. You referred to this when you spoke of Mrs Leijten's amendments. But the amendment I am considering is not a one-sided move to shift the international playing field, that is my humble opinion. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u149	"The proposal I'm making now." Mr Van der Lee must then briefly state what he wants to happen and why he feels that this does not affect the playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u150	The proposal would be to change the fine from a fourth category to a sixth category fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u151	Oh, I don't know if that's undermining the playing field. I have not used any playing field arguments against Mr Van der Lee's wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-12-tweedekamer-7.u152	We have come to the end of this debate. We will vote on the law and the amendments tabled next week, if it is all right. I thank the Secretary of State and the Members of Parliament.
