ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u1	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For GroenLinks, security of policemen and citizens always comes first. Agents should really be able to assume in the performance of their duties that the equipment with which they work also guarantees their safety. Luckily, there were no casualties in this incident. An incident like that with the Defense Department must be prevented at any cost. Last week, during a training exercise, MEs were shocked by the spontaneous detonation of a bullet during the discharge of a weapon. We are very shocked by this news. I have the following questions for the Minister. Are there people in danger right now? Are these bullets still being practiced? Are these bullets used by the police on the street? What actions have been taken to prevent repetition? Are the bullets used by the police sufficiently controlled and certified? In what cases are these bullets actually used? Which police officers use these bullets? An investigation has been announced, but is the security of the police and citizens guaranteed under all circumstances? Mr. Chairman. The message shows that there have been incidents before. Is this correct and, if so, is it also about other means of violence used by the police? How has the handling of these incidents been handled? Were the police department and the minister aware of any previous incidents? What action has been taken on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Let me begin by saying that this incident has indeed spooked everyone. During an exercise of the ME unit Amsterdam at a training location, a pattern was ignited that fell to the ground. Luckily, no one got hurt. I think we should at least establish that together. Team chiefs of the unit concerned were immediately informed. As a precaution, all ammunition was taken on the scene after the incident. Here's what I'm gonna do. The police have ammunition of an extremely high quality, certified. All parties are inspected; the so-called purchase inspection. If any anomalies are found, the entire batch of ammunition will be rejected. These kinds of incidents are rare. There have been three similar cases recorded in the last eight years. At the moment, there are no grounds for taking further action, other than the fact that extensive research is being carried out into exactly what the technical circumstances of the incident have been. I would like to await the results of the investigation and share it with you, if the Chamber appreciates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u4	I thank the Minister for his answers. I understand that he wants to await the investigation, but I would like to put a deadline on it, because there are, of course, concerns in the police at the moment, where bullets like this are being carried around daily in the service weapon. That concern has not yet been taken away, so that is my great concern. The minister says they're actually minor incidents, but how does he know? Has all the material been re-examined? Is the current material really safe? The Minister replied on a general basis, but it is not clear to me whether the safety of these bullets has been checked again as a result of this incident.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u5	I didn't say "little," I said there were few incidents. That's why I said, "Everybody's freaked out." It's not just a minor incident. Furthermore, I have said, and I would like to emphasise this, that all ammunition on the ground was taken immediately after the incident. I've been informed by the Chief Constable. He has informed me that the safety of the staff is not at stake. You ask me if I want to make sure that the investigation is carried out quickly. I realise, of course, that the issue you mentioned in your introduction is a sensitive one. I can assure you that I have insisted that we get the results of that investigation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u6	My request is that those results be shared with the Chamber as soon as possible. I understand from the Minister that everything has been checked on the spot, but that does not remove my concern that the remaining material of the same type, which is also used elsewhere, is of course still present.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u7	If I put that as a question, my answer is: it is all being included in the research at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-07-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Minister Grapperhaus and Mrs Özütok.
