ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer, on behalf of the PvdA, for his question to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I would also like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I agree with the last words of Minister Ploumen. If you buy a property in a larger city now, you may be standing there with five or sometimes ten people looking around you in a living room, and you should have already made your bid when you close the door behind you. That suggests overheating, and that can also be explained by the low interest rates. In situations where people have to make an offer very quickly, it is important that they are also protected a little. We are now increasingly seeing that brokers are asking the selling parties to refrain from a funding reservation or a request for a construction technical inspection, which is why they are actually rejecting the bid immediately. That's really not good, because what happens when you buy a cat in the bag, especially at such high house prices? You're really gonna catch up. That is something we must avoid, because it will not make anyone any better, and it will also make society worse. I asked the Minister about this and he replied. He said: yes, we see that as a problem and we want to investigate it. However, the problem is now, so I ask the Minister to ask the brokers to agree with me and with the cabinet and not to allow, as a sector, competition on detachable conditions of funding retention and construction inspection. That is my question to the Minister for Housing and National Service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Mr President, for the record, I am Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, but have expanded the portfolio a little over the last few months. I fully agree with the questioner that in the overcrowded housing market that seems to be signing off on a number of places in the country, especially in the major cities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That could be an undesirable risk. We are indeed seeing an increase. In Amsterdam, 47% of purchases are no longer subject to reserve financing. Nationally, that's 12%. That is indeed a big difference and that is a cause for concern. Now, by the way, the relationship with the overstretched housing market can go two ways. Because house prices have risen, for example in Amsterdam, people may also know that their old house is going to raise a lot, so they have already covered the risk of financing with the proceeds of their old house. So it is only a matter of asking what proportion of that 47% is the result of irresponsible risks and what part is due to the fact that we do not need the retention of funding, because we actually already have the funding in the pocket and know that it will be okay. Nevertheless, I have already promised in the written reply that I am prepared to do research. I'll get that done soon, too. I can report the findings to the Chamber before the summer, and I will also talk to the brokers' association in order to assure me that they themselves face this risk. I've already talked to them. The standard purchase contract does include the debinding condition. In any case, that requires that the buyer knowingly refrains from doing so. So that can't happen by accident. I want them to be aware, in their role as purchasing broker, that they must organise responsible interactions for their clients. This does not happen by taking a risk of financing if one cannot see it sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thanks for speeding up the investigation. It's coming up for the summer. I am still a bit stuck with the percentage in Amsterdam. I myself live in Groningen and the housing market is also flourishing. Without reservation of providing funding, is intended for people who have the money. It's also fine if you just have the money in the bank. However, most people still need a mortgage to buy a house, especially if they are as expensive as in Amsterdam. I saw today that there was a house of 26 square meters for sale for €199,000. I almost didn't believe it myself. Most people still need a mortgage and have to pay a fine if things go wrong. We shouldn't allow that. The industry shouldn't want that either. This applies not only to the purchasing broker who assists buyers. Not everyone has a purchasing broker, especially if you walk through the house for sale. As far as the PvdA is concerned, sales agents should also include in their professional ethics that they should not want to do so. They should no longer refuse an offer because a reserve of funding has been made. Is the Minister prepared to ask not only the buyer but also the selling broker? If they don't want to, is the minister willing to prepare a law?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	People can indeed offer without reservation of funding if they have the money. This can also be done because they know what their floor they leave behind in Amsterdam-Zuid will cost if they want to live in the hip Amsterdam-Oost. Then they don't have the money technically yet, but then they can see the risk. In that case, they can decide to bid. In itself, the lapse of the reservation also lends itself to these cases. I told you, I'm willing to talk to the real estate agents about this. There is a difference in responsibility. The selling broker acts on behalf of his client. I think it is wrong for him to try to encourage people to take irresponsible risks to make a purchase. Of course, that realtor can't look in the wallet of whoever's offering. It is at most the responsibility of the purchasing broker to look with his or her client and, where appropriate, to ask if this bid should be made. There are limits to what you can expect from the selling broker at this point. Anyway, I'm willing to start that conversation because real estate agents play both roles for different clients.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you for the commitment. Of course, the purchasing agent assists the buyer. In the real estate sector, however, things must also be a bit orderly and tidy. You can see that the housing market is overwhelmed. You can see that people already make an offer without the partner seeing the house and without any funding retention, while you get a 10% penalty if things go wrong. Then we also have to see in the sector that things are not going very well. The market is not going well, and that is going to lead to misery. My last question is this. We see more and more buyers, while there are too few homes in many areas. Those buyers, investment funds can offer without reserve of funding. In some areas house prices rise by 10% or 20% per year. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that these homes remain available? What is he going to do to prevent houses from becoming priceless for ordinary people in Amsterdam?That's already a bit the case now: Utrecht, Leiden and later in my city, Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	That is a very good question, but also a very different question. In fact, this is a question of housing shortage. Then the most important thing is to build. I am making a round around the various housing regions in the country to see with different parties what the obstacles are. Why hasn't there been enough planning? Why isn't it built when the question is obviously there? I can talk about that for a long time. The housing shortage itself lies under this whole problem. There is a great deal to be done about this in the coming years. I'm working on the middle rental segment for the cities to make sure that starters can find a place somewhere. However, it is too far-reaching to go into this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	I'd like a confirmation from the Minister that he's gonna do the investigation first and only then legislation. If he is going to talk to the brokers, he should not discuss Mr Nijboer's proposal. My question is what he's going to discuss. The investigation is about to take place, but legislation would really cost homeowners unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	When there was earlier overheating in the housing market, the legislator chose to include a three-day reflection period. This means that the buyer may waive his purchase for three days without giving reasons. This was also seen as an infringement of contract freedom at the time, but I believe that everyone is now used to it and has no objection to it. I do not rule out the need for legislation in advance, but that does involve complications, I say in the direction of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I have therefore made no proposal to this effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	Does the Minister also intend to focus on those who have to pay a 10% penalty for non-compliance with the funding obligation? Is that wise?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	That is indeed one of the questions to which I would like to have an answer in the coming months. The increase to 47% in non-financing purchases is particularly worrying if it also leads to an increase in the number of people unable to finance the purchase and to pay a fine. If more people can arrange the funding themselves, then perhaps it will be up to now. An important part question is how often it actually comes to such a fine. If you cannot finance the purchase and have lost 10% of the amount offered as a fine, that is of course a very big attack on people's assets. That is a very undesirable situation, so we will need to get a picture of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	Thank you.
