ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u1	I would like to welcome the initiator. In the defence of the initiative proposal in box K, Ms Bergkamp is supported by Mr Hofland, policy officer of D66, Ms Van der Zee, also policy officer of D66, Mr Smeets, lawyer at Spong Lawyers and Mr Vis, also lawyer at Spong Lawyers. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Security and Justice and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. They will act as advisers to the Chamber in the examination of this initiative proposal. Today we are dealing with the first term of office. The continuation is foreseen in the week of 14 February.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the author of this bill and all her support for the work she has done. In particular, let us not forget her predecessor, Mrs Berndsen. She too has done a great deal of work for this. I will come back with compliments for the content of this law, because this was only about the process and the work. We have had a strange policy for soft drugs in the Netherlands for a very long time. That is no longer sustainable, and it has not been for a long time. Soft drugs are forbidden, but the sale via coffee shops is not. The front door is tolerated, but that does not apply to the back door. The cultivation and supply of the tolerated outlets is illegal and therefore in the hands of criminals. So we allow soft drugs to be sold through outlets, but we do not want to officially know how this stuff should end up in the coffee shops. That's a kind of ostrich policy the SP would rather get rid of today than tomorrow. According to the SP, it really has to be different. Legalization has many advantages. That is a well-known position of ours. This is better for safety, better for public health and better from a financial point of view. I'll start with safety. The irregular abandonment of hemp cultivation has created a model of earning for criminals, organized crime. It makes a huge amount of money. Whole neighborhoods are in the grip of illegal cultivation. In addition to much intimidation, robberies and even more dangerous situations related to fire safety. The market will remain in place as long as we do not change anything about this. If we are regulated, we can focus the efforts of the police and the justice system much more on the remaining, remaining, illegal part. Surely that should be welcomed by the Minister for Security and Justice, who is going to advise on this law? We are therefore interested in hearing his opinion on this law, especially now that his party has recently been in favour of smarter regulation. Regulating also has benefits for public health. We can do more information. It offers opportunities to lay down more rules and monitor the composition of soft drugs, to enforce them and to combat dangerous pesticides or growth-retardant drugs. So I am very curious about the advice of the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport of a party that has been in favour of regulating for years. In addition, the legalization of soft drugs generates many millions. As a result, police and justice can be more targeted and taxes on soft drugs can be levied. The Minister of Finance is not here today, but he will undoubtedly be very pleased with this initiative. It is clear that something really needs to be done, because it can no longer be done this way. This not only calls for a large part of the Chamber, a majority now, but also for enforcers, judges and, above all, city leaders. The municipalities want a solution to the back door problem of coffee shops. In several municipalities, plans have been presented to grow hemp for the supply of coffeeshops in those municipalities. Many mayors of the municipalities that house the tolerated coffee shops in the Netherlands have signed the Joint Regulation. It calls for the introduction of a national system of certified and regulated hemp cultivation. Today we received a very clear letter from the Association of Dutch Municipalities. It welcomes the fact that, after years of stalemate on this dossier, it is now finally moving. In the current situation, there is no form of control of the products grown and sold and their impact on public health. In today's policy we as a government in a sense stimulate and facilitate crime, according to the Association of Dutch Municipalities. According to the municipalities, this bill responds to many of the locally experienced problems in the current policy of tolerance. 90% of the municipalities embrace this view. I do not think that we in the Chamber should ignore that either. You often hear from opponents of legalization the argument that with legalization you give the signal that you can easily obtain soft drugs and use them safely, without risks. I think that's a misconception. In any case, it is not the position of the SP. That is not what we are saying about alcohol, a substance that is proven to be more harmful than hemp. The harmful effects of alcohol are also being warned, and for that too we are laying down all kinds of rules on quality. We do not sell to young people etc. Coffeeshops don't do that either. If they do sell to young people, they will be severely punished for that. In short, it is precisely by allowing regulated cultivation, supply and sale, subject to strict rules, that you trade in the interests of public health. According to the SP, the D66 proposal is therefore very sympathetic. It's a good proposal. Once again, my heartfelt congratulations. But the proposal is not perfect or perfect. It means creating a closed and as much taxable coffeeshop chain as possible from which criminals are prevented. The construction of the toleration decision was chosen. From now on, not only the outlets and the front door, the coffee shops, are tolerated, but also the cultivation and supply. I understand the proposal very well, but I wonder if this is the most elegant solution. There's something crazy about tolerance in the core. Officially it remains forbidden, but we agree not to maintain it. This can be done according to the opportunity principle of the Public Prosecutor's Office, but if we are going to lay down by law that it is tolerated, why do we not allow it to be regulated? Instead of a tolerance decision, which amounts to regulated tolerance, the SP would prefer to see a system of derogations, where there is regulated legalisation. At first, the proposal was similar, but it was amended in the light of the opinion of the Council of State, while there were also contradictory noises. There are also lawyers who argue that it is precisely in the light of international treaties that the cultivation of cannabis, as is currently proposed, can be problematic. On the contrary, it would be possible to amend the Opium Act in such a way that the cultivation of cannabis for recreational use is regulated and legalised through that closed system of exemptions, if it is accompanied by an active discouragement policy of cannabis aimed at prevention, early warning and treatment. Can I have a comprehensive response on this point from the initiator? I would like to hear again in detail what led the initiator to change the original proposal, which was based on regulated legalisation, into regulated ones. Doesn't the initiator think it would be better if we were finally regulated? Is the proposal before us to be seen as a step in that direction? Having said that, I believe that the legislative proposal can be regarded as a limited or modest extension of current policy. No matter how you turn it, it's a step in the right direction. It will therefore not be surprising that the SP is in favour of the bill. I hope that many groups will be equally positive today. I do have a few more questions about the proposal. The bill proposes to grant a two-year exemption. That's pretty short. It requires a lot of entrepreneurs. They have to rent a property, buy plants and make investments, all with only two years of security. It may be that a next minister suddenly decides not to grant a waiver. Then all the investments were for nothing. Will this lack of legal certainty not prevent many entrepreneurs from growing? I would like to hear from the initiator why it was not chosen to grant an indefinite exemption or at least longer than those two years. That exemption can, in fact, be withdrawn if the rules are not complied with, but in my opinion not simply because the two years have passed. I would also like an opinion from the Minister on this. For comparison, we discussed last week the privatisation of Holland Casino and the introduction of market forces in that sector. I know, comparisons are always risky, always limp and so on. But these were licences with a duration of 15 years. That's what the PvdA and the VVD suggested. I think that is quite a difference from the two years proposed in this bill. So I'd like to get a response to that point. We also asked a question about a foundation model in which participating existing coffeeshops are part of the board. As a result, they can direct their own sector, which, in our opinion, increases the involvement of those smallzzp'ers and is necessary to maintain the old, trusted coffeeshops. I'd like another comment on this. In what way does the initiator intend to involve coffee shop owners in the direction of their own sector? What does this proposal mean for the space given to home cultivation of medicinal cannabis? Are there possibilities, and is that desirable? Does this proposal change anything at that point? I'd like a comment on that, too. As I said, the Association of Dutch Municipalities is positive about the bill, but the VNG notes that the government must continue to invest in the preventive approach to discourage use. With a firm commitment to prevention, I really agree. How does the initiator see that and what can we expect from the government in this respect? The differences between municipalities, which are already there, remain. They may even become larger, now that municipalities are given more space; that is in line with expectations. On the one hand, local customization is to be welcomed on this point, but on the other hand, it can be strange if different rules apply in every municipality. For example, look at the resident criterion. Is it desirable that some municipalities do choose to do so and others do not? In one municipality there is a ban on the sale to non-residents of a Dutch municipality and in the municipality further away this is permitted. Is that convenient, is my question. I'd like to get a reaction to this. Also, after settling the back door, it is very likely that an illegal portion will be left for export. The estimates of how large this part is expected to be are very different; we have had fierce debates on this in the past, and they have not yet been resolved. How does the petitioner view this? In any case, I agree with the author that illegal cultivation will be reduced. Part of the cultivation will go from illegal to tolerated, and the part of the illegal cultivation that remains cannot go to the coffee shops anymore. They are obliged to withdraw their stocks from growers holding a decision to tolerate them. That is the right thing to do with this proposal. Nevertheless, I would like to get a response on this point: how big will the illegal part that remains? I come almost to a conclusion, but only after I have pointed out the interesting international developments. More and more countries and states are shifting their views on soft drugs and the criminality of possession, use and sale, or they even choose to tolerate or regulate, in all kinds of variants we know. As far as I know, all this has not yet led to repercussions or international sanctions. That's interesting. To the extent that steps in the direction of tolerance or regulation would be contrary, I would like to stress: would it be: to have interesting legal discussions on this subject with international conventions of decades ago, would it not be better, in addition to this proposal, to focus on finding international consensus on a more sensible way of dealing with soft drugs and, if necessary, adjusting the treaties? In the end, it would be the best thing to legalize cannabis completely. To this end, cannabis should be included in the lists of the drug treaties: the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the United Nations Convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. Recent research shows that the positive human rights obligations arising from various conventions, the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights would outweigh the prohibitions of the international drug treaties. So, if you follow that, cannabis should be regulated, legalized. I would like to hear from the initiator whether she shares the view that cannabis should be removed from the lists of the aforementioned drug treaties. I would also like to receive a response from both directors. Are they prepared to try, perhaps together with Uruguay and Spain, to adapt the treaties so that we can finally proceed to legalization? I would like a response from both the author of this proposal and the Minister and the Secretary of State. Maybe this isn't as impossible as it seems. The fact that the most armed opponents, like the VVD, can also change their minds, has recently emerged. Also the VVD is now for smarter regulation. It took a congress and it wasn't the minister himself who repented, but it's just as good news. So we are going to listen to the VVD spokesperson with great anticipation. Finally, I would like to ask the government what the state of play is regarding the motion that has been tabled by the SP in dealing with the budget for Security and Justice, which the government is instructing to come up with a proposal to regulate soft drugs smarter. How's that going? Can the Minister say anything about this in his opinion? I haven't seen anything of it to this day, although we had asked to come up with it quickly in 2017. Finally, I wish the petitioner and the beautiful team behind her every success in defending this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I naturally congratulate the author and her team of advisers. It's always a huge achievement. And what exactly are we, as a parliament, on earth for? It's also to come up with own-initiative laws. I know how much work it is and how complicated it is to bring it to this stage. I remember the recent procedural meeting. We all got through that. It is very nice that we now have the plenary session. This is a social problem, which is now well under way. I would also like to welcome the new Secretary of State for Security and Justice. It seems relatively likely that he will be able to complete this term. The Dutch drug policy can be described as a great success. GroenLinks is convinced that the pragmatic approach to the drug problem has prevented worse. It is not for nothing that more and more countries are copying, on the one hand, the individual states of the United States, which are generally not known for their indulgent attitude to the Dutch drugs policy. All over the world it is now clear that a total ban and a war on drugs will not solve anything. It is, of course, a difficult subject for the right because the VVD normally advocates freedom of choice for informed consumers, but not in this area. She does want freedom of choice for tobacco and alcohol, but she does not want a well-informed choice in the field of cannabis, although the VVD Congress fortunately comes to terms with it a little bit, as my SP colleague said. In the end it will also happen in the Netherlands; my party is convinced of that. GroenLinks has never made a misunderstanding about the fact that the use of drugs is not without dangers. I am going to try not to repeat too many things from the contribution of the SP colleague, but I would like to draw attention to good information, to use by adults and to the quality of the delivered, without agricultural poisons and heavy metals and with a recognizable content. This is much better for public health than the current situation. In the indexing of inherent harmful substances, these soft drugs are well below alcohol and tobacco. In a 2009 RIVM ranking of drugs, alcohol and tobacco are mentioned in one sentence with heroin and crack. The only difference is the social acceptance of alcohol and tobacco, which are clearly referred to as "pleasants" and the moral disapproval of drug use by criminal law and the legislator. Motivation investigated the support for legalisation of cannabis in 2015. As many as 70% of those questioned believe that cannabis should be legalized. 61% want controlled cultivation to be allowed. 9% thought at that time, in 2015, that cannabis cultivation should be completely released. Majorities in the supporters of the VVD, the CDA and the PVV also spoke out for more freer rules. Within the judiciary you see an important shift. More and more criminal law enforcement officers declare the Public Prosecutor's Office inadmissible or condone bona fide hemp growers. As a judge of the court of The Hague put it strikingly in 2012, "Whatever one thinks about the existence of coffeeshops and the widespread use of soft drugs, the alternative in the form of a complete ban and illegal street trade is in any case even less attractive. In this respect, the Dutch coffeeshops are the least of the two evils to perform a social function." An administrative working group of the Association of Dutch Municipalities speaks of the bankruptcy of the tolerated. The policy of tolerance is no longer in line with current circumstances. The trade and production of cannabis causes major social and administrative problems; it even undermines local democracy. The VNG has developed the obvious scenarios and concludes that only a system of rules for production, trade and sales is legally sustainable and viable for local democracy. Moreover, the old principle of public health remains central. In short, the VNG report reads as a praise on the rule scenario. I wonder whether the author sees it as such or whether there are things in the VNG scenario that are better regulated in her legislative proposal. We have to be realistic. The SP also said that regulating the production and sale of cannabis is not going to solve all the current problems, because we have allowed them to thrive for a long time. The criminal market has been given quite a grip on all production and exports. You can't get it off at once by legalizing or regulating. Contaminated weed will continue to appear on the market and, unfortunately, less years will continue to use drugs. Faced with the current opportunities to fight wrongdoing, a regulated approach offers municipalities much more opportunities to intervene. GroenLinks has raised the issue in the handling of many VenJ budgets that a lot of money is being carried from this ministry as water to the sea. This money could be used more usefully elsewhere. This fine initiative is a step in contributing to this. I agree with the question put by the SP: does the author have a sense of the order of magnitude that this would give? Those are perhaps arguments that colleagues can help to cross the line. The VNG asks for room to experiment with different regulatory solutions within the established frameworks in order to eventually achieve a legally firmly anchored nationwide cannabis policy. We have just heard the SP on the adopted motion. I have something in my text about this too, so I can skip it quietly. Cannabis social clubs, a city nursery or coffee shop 2.0, such as in Haarlem and Hilversum, in which coffee shops comply with strict rules of police, GGD and municipality for the promotion of quality, the exclusion of criminal intertwinedness and the provision of information in exchange for a lighter sanction regime, can be considered. How does our minister view this? Would that be a step in the right direction? I also agree with the SP on the issue of treaties: it is possible to consider whether the treaties can be adapted to allow for the legalisation of cannabis. The Council of State believes there is no such space. In general, GroenLinks strongly supports the view of the Council of State, stronger even than the cabinet. I would like to give examples of the new law on intelligence and security services and the ban on burqa. In these examples, the cabinet ignored the opinion of the Council of State. I ask the Minister for advice on the scientific wells-nietesdiscours. Van Kempen and Fedorova show in a 2014 study that there is indeed a treaty-law area for regulated legalisation of cannabis cultivation and trade for the recreational user market. I would like to hear a response from both the petitioner and the minister. Scientists point out that there is not only a negative duty to combat, but also a positive human rights obligation. I can now skip a whole piece and join the SP. As mentioned above, GroenLinks attaches great importance to the opinion of the Council of State, and GroenLinks respects the international legal order. At the same time, according to GroenLinks, there is sufficient room for regulation and legalisation, provided that a closed system is provided. The initiative law meets this requirement. The proposed system brings social benefits. GroenLinks wholeheartedly supports this initiative and has the same questions about a two-year permit. Is that mainly to see if we can move together or is there another reason underneath? GroenLinks lacks one thing in this initiative proposal, for which I have written an amendment, namely a regulation for medical cannabis users. I got in touch with some people over the e-mail and eventually over the phone. We'll all have a message about that. There are people with serious diseases who are hugely hindering their lives who really benefit from medicinal cannabis. Some send their caregiver or their child to the coffee shop. Others put up a few plants, but sometimes they even get thrown out of their rental house or are threatened with it. For these people, a tolerance would be a tremendous relief. Then they can grow it themselves, without agricultural poison, heavy metals and other pollutants in it. It should appeal to all parties to enable these people to alleviate their serious complaints. A number of municipalities, such as Tilburg and Vlissingen, now allow medical home culture, but that still gives rise to problems. GroenLinks therefore proposes to supplement this initiative proposal with a scheme allowing home-grown cannabis on medical grounds. I'm interested in the reaction of our petitioner. I would also like to wish the author every success with this fine and justified initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. Cannabis is an assassin, according to the addiction institution Novadic-Kentron last month at the presentation of her annual report. Of the 809 young people undergoing treatment at this addiction institution, almost half of them are cannabis. Number two has drugs like cocaine and amphetamine, with 111 clients. The head of treatment at the institution was clear about it: "Young people often use since 13, 14 years of age. Not rarely does their development stagnate almost completely. They don't perform at school anymore, they don't work, they don't come to anything. If they end up with us at 24 because they see that their peers are moving on with their lives, their development has stopped for ten years. But because the problems build up very slowly and inconspicuously, this problem remains largely invisible. Cannabis is an assassin who hides in a quiet corner, but in the meantime stagnates your whole life." Let's get this over with. The use of this assassin is driving our young people to a large extent, but here in Parliament, a majority is signing up for further standardisation. I can't believe this. How can you argue with dry eyes for regulation of cannabis? Can the initiator respond to this? Can it comment on the devastating effects of drugs, as has also been said by Novadic-Kentron, and then explain how normalization can be a smart plan? In fact, a prominent party member of the initiator has had a debate with me on the radio. He said: this is only the first step towards normalizing and regulating all drugs, including ecstasy, cocaine, heroin and so on. Can the initiator quite clearly distance himself from this? Or is this indeed the hidden D66 agenda? That is what I would like to hear today, because that will allow us to take that into account. The question to the government is how she sees it. The CDA doesn't think soft drugs are normal. It's crap and it's not nearly as innocent as users want you to believe. They are harmful to public health and cause nuisance. No parent's hoping his or her kid's gonna smoke. We as CDA stand beside these parents in their fight against this assassin. After all, how can they explain to their children how disastrous it is if the government has given it the stamp "okay"? I would also like a response from the initiator. The initiator even says that she thinks that this will solve a safety problem. But why not ask the partners for advice on this? Isn't that just cowardly? How can you say you're contributing to the fight against crime if you don't even have the courage to ask for advice from the police and the justice system? In an email she writes that she does not need this advice. As if that's the current criterion here. My question to the government is obvious, namely whether it wants to ensure that these opinions are given. Such a change of direction on such a subject with such a safety aspect without proper advice from the safety chain is careless and unworthy of a representative of the people. Then let me say something about it. The Netherlands has been producing large quantities of drugs for decades, mostly destined for abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u5	For a moment I thought I'd let it go. Everyone is entitled to his or her opinion and to his or her own speech. But terms like "unworthy of a people's representative" kind of throw me in the wrong throat. This debate has been going on for a very long time. We've known the position of D66 for a very long time. We have all spoken separately with all those involved, with the police, the judiciary and all the local authorities. The petitioner was not fooled by the CDA's tactics not to deal with this bill for the time being, but to postpone it and delay it. To blame her for that and to say that it is unworthy of a representative of the people, I think that is a little too far. Could you respond to that, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u6	I really mean it from the bottom of my heart. I find it totally unworthy of a representative of the people to say that it solves a security aspect. You should know, because you can also get out of Brabant and you're talking to prosecutors over there who say this doesn't solve anything at all. If you really believe, seriously believe, that this solves a security aspect, then you just ask the College of Attorney General nicely? Isn't that what we do with proper laws? Why don't you ask the police for advice? Why don't you just let them say what they think about that? If you really think this is a solution, then that's what you come up with. And when are you not gonna do that? When you don't believe in it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u7	Too bad those words are not taken back, but forward. The initiativer is perfectly capable of defending herself against this. I'm sure of it. Then let's talk about the content, the safety aspect. Of course, this proposal contributes to reducing the insecurity and situations in the neighbourhoods of Brabant, which I do know very well. Of course I do. An important breeding ground for criminals will be removed with this bill. Not entirely, the applicant also acknowledges in response to questions. I have said it explicitly myself in my text. And let us not mention the benefits for public health and the benefits for the Treasury. Then the area of crime. I have been very clear about this myself, as have Mr van GroenLinks and the initiator. We have explained very clearly why the removal of a breeding ground for criminals makes it possible for the police and the judiciary to focus on the remaining illegal part. You're pleading the exact opposite. You can, but, again, those big words can be a little bit less.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u8	No, they're not gonna get any worse. I'm talking to a lot of officers, to the RIEC and to the police. I'll go along and see that about 90% is just for overseas. It's not gonna pay off at all. If that were the case, we'd have heard about it from the D.A.'s office and the police. We would have had a sound opinion here, which would have included: this is a top initiative by Mrs Bergkamp, let us do this above all. We're not gonna get that. What we do get are ads and documents in the D.A.'s newspaper. The prosecution states that the initiative is terrible, that it is naive and that it doesn't solve anything at all. That's what I read. But if you don't want to read that, then maybe you'll pass it by.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u9	I give the floor to Mr Koolmees. But I see that Mr van Nispen still has something to say. I'll give him room for one small addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u10	What I find interesting is the opinion of the Association of Dutch Municipalities that we have heard today. The VNG clearly states that 90% of the municipalities embrace and support this initiative. These municipalities also know very well what they are talking about, in connection with public order and security in those neighbourhoods. Those are exactly the neighborhoods Mrs Van Toorenburg is talking about. I assume that Mrs Van Toorenburg will return to the opinion of the UNG in her text. And I'm assuming she's not gonna ignore that advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u11	No, I have read with increasing amazement that last piece of the VNG, that left piece that we were spied in. I don't believe any of that, but I don't believe any of that. I think of that: how do they come to say this? So no, it will not change my advice to my group that this is simply nothing at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u12	Mrs. Van Toorenburg will open all registers. It's popularly-represented and unworthy; well, well, that's another word. I've been looking at history for a while. Since 1976, we have had the policy of tolerance in the Netherlands. Whoever started that was CDA Minister Van Agt. He even recently said in an interview: "Those coffeeshops are mine." He's proud. Over the next forty years we have had CDA ministers of justice for twenty years: Hirsch Ballin, Donner, De Ruiter, Van Agt. And now, forty years later, the representative of the CDA Group opens up all registers and uses them very big words. What has the CDA been doing for the past 40 years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u13	Many years ago we thought that with a few coffee shops we could offer a solution to the problems of crime and to the few people who wanted to use soft drugs. We are now many years further and coffeeshops are about the only department stores in the Netherlands that are still standing. We see in Brabant that the undermining is enormous and it has become a great drama. Then you must also have the courage to say, "Stop it." Mrs Van Tongeren just said that CDAs think this should be done. I didn't even need to respond to it, but I can put it aside now. Of the people who were at our conference, 88% just burned it down. They say: we simply should not do this at all. So it is very clear as far as we are concerned. We once thought that this might be a good solution. However, we have seen that it is not a good solution. Then you can do two things. I'm comparing it to the situation where you walk into a dark forest because you think forest air is healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u14	You need a lot of time, Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yes, Mr President, this is an important subject. I'm gonna explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u16	All the issues in this debate are important, Mrs Van Toorenburg, but you are answering Mr Koolmees' question. Perhaps you could keep that answer brief and then resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u17	Yeah, but I need this...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u18	I understand you have to do it all, but I'm just asking you to keep it a little short, instead of taking us to the woods.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u19	However, I am going to do so, Mr President, because I would like to explain why I am making this comparison. If you've walked into a forest like this, you look around at some point and you notice you're lost, you can do two things. You can either go back or you can walk. I notice that some parties want to walk on. The CDA is going back because this hasn't been a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you. Finally, Mr Koolmees asks his follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u21	Sorry, I do not think this is a strong argument from Mrs Van Toorenburg. We have indeed received a manifesto joint regulation. There are also the names of eleven CDA mayors underneath. They say: we need to settle this as soon as possible. This is important in the context of public health, public order and security. They say, "Let's get this right as soon as possible." Mrs Van Toorenburg is now using strong words in this debate, while the CDA has been able to regulate this for 40 years. Besides, there are CDA mayors who say, "Get this over with." Many CDA drivers have said in recent years that it is very strange that we do arrange the front door, but not the back door. Nevertheless, Mrs Van Toorenburg is currently wearing very large pants. I'm sorry, but I find this really unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr Koolmees can find this unbelievable; I am totally fine with that. There'll be mayors who think it's a good idea. However, my group does not like it at all, nor does our congress. That's what I'm telling you here today. It may well be that there are a number of mayors who feel differently about this, perhaps encouraged by the lectures or by the municipal councils. But I think the line the CDA chooses is very clear today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u23	We are, of course, also in this Chamber in order to disagree. However, it will help if we assume some respect for each other, especially for someone who is proposing an initiative law. And it also helps if we start from the facts, unless Mrs Van Toorenburg prefers alternative facts. In the survey I was just talking about, the VVD states that 77% of voters are for controlled cultivation, 65% for CDA, 62% for PVV and 51% for Christian Union. So for all parties in this Chamber with more than five seats, a majority of their voters are in favour of controlled cultivation. Then it is still Mrs Van Toorenburg's right to find it different from those whole zipper to CDA ministers, CDA leaders and the whole of VNG, but let's take the facts as a basis. Even if Mrs Van Toorenburg was the last person to think you shouldn't regulate it, she may think so. But just say that you have nothing emotionally with it, don't want it and don't have too many substantive arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u24	The reason why I do not devote any positive words to this initiative law is that I find it really terrible that our young people should be given another example of normalisation. It's gonna ruin our childhood. And if I fight my ass off to keep the youth from falling apart, Mrs Van Tongeren may mind. Fine. That's the answer to point one. The answer to point two is as follows. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is only one figure that applies: a statement from our congress. It may well be that someone has surveyed something with people who may have voted for us. However, our conference was clear. Our congress has said by a large majority that not only should nothing be regulated, but that the coffeeshops should be closed. In all honesty, I was surprised that the majority was so large for that last aspect. Even more than 80% think coffeeshops should be closed. I didn't expect that, but thank God it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mrs Van Toorenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u26	My name is Van Tongeren. But it looks a lot like it, I'll admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u27	Excuse me, Mrs. Van Tongeren! This was really a freudian mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u28	It's okay. It's okay. It happens all the time. I won't ask how many people were at the CDA Congress. I would like to ask what Mrs Van Toorenburg will see happen. She says that this initiative legislative proposal normalizes it. How does an initiative legislative proposal normalise something that we have long tolerated from crime? How does that normalize it? What does Mrs Van Toorenburg mean by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u29	That's a good question. That question shows that what we are doing is each time a step further in making soft drugs acceptable. We make soft drugs acceptable, we normalize it and we think we can do it anywhere. We did indeed have that complicated and inconsistent policy, with which we thought we could deal with it. But now we don't think: it doesn't work and it gets out of hand, so we go back. Instead, we're gonna get on with it. That's what I mean by normalizing. Soon we won't be able to tell our youth at all that it's bad, because it's got a stamp everywhere with "okay" from the government. In fact, if I have to believe some Members here, it will be even healthy. I had stuck to the point that soft drugs are mainly intended for foreign countries. That's already shown by the WODC. There are many billions made by the production of soft drugs, but in the end that production is still one of the country's major security problems. I don't want to deny that there are problems. Especially in the south of the country there are. However, I would prefer to see a reflection of the initiativer and government on the failing policy, so that these problems can be tackled seriously, rather than putting our heads in the bosom now. For even the initiator acknowledges in the note following the report that in the end the unsatisfied growers will continue to deliver to criminal organisations. The production for the criminal market simply continues to exist. In fact, I am only asking the initiator and the government whether they can comment on the extent of the problem. Undermining is a very big problem in the south of the Netherlands: in Brabant, in Limburg and in Zeeland. However, we see this also a bit in the east of the country. I have an extra concern about that. In this proposal, mayors will actually have something to give away to what is now a criminal market. Soon the question will be: who can legally grow and offer? How much stock can be kept? In fact, we're about to get drivers who have something to offer criminals. We fear that this might increase intimidation. I would also like a response from the initiator, and also from the government. Our restrictive policy has very great advantages, because we can now ban foreign drug tourists. Fortunately, there are municipalities that do that and they suffer considerably less from this misery. Municipalities applying the resident criterion thus have significantly less problems with drug tourists than those who leave their heads hanging. As far as we are concerned, that resident criterion is at risk if you turn it into an ordinary business as in the proposal before us. The Council of State is very clear about this and we do not believe that the defence of the initiator is a good thing. As far as we are concerned, it is only a game of words to indicate as if it could still apply, but it is not always about the terminology used in the law, but certainly about the scope. And the scope is clear regulation. Our concern is that the resident criterion can no longer be maintained. We would also like to know from the government how she sees it. Because the border regions are very worried, about drug users, about drug tourists coming here to pick up their mess. It is important that this is addressed, because we are concerned about this, because we do not live on an island. Then we have the idea of creating a sort of taxable coffee shop chain. The CDA also has serious doubts about this. After all, it is still internationally prohibited, and that makes taxation problematic. We would like another clear reflection from the government on this point. Initiator looks through pink glasses, but we look soberly at the regulations. We are also very curious to know what the Government's answer to the question of whether the proposal as it stands is ultimately not contrary to international law. I don't spend a lot of words on it. Because it may be an insurmountable bump, for the CDA it is not even the decisive argument. We do not need international regulations to be fiercely opposed to this. Because it is well known and I cannot say it often enough: the CDA wants to tackle soft drugs instead of tolerated. We want to do that by reducing the number of coffeeshops further, if possible to zero. By closing all the coffee shops in the vicinity of schools. By tackling illicit trafficking in drugs, street sales and illegal outlets instead of allowing them. By strengthening the common approach of municipalities, police, justice, tax administration and social services; the administrative approach. For it is naive, even dangerously naive, to think that further standardisation, which is actually this regulation, makes some contribution to the fight against this assassin. So, for the sake of the Acts alone, I would like to say one more time: the CDA does not support this proposal. You don't regulate an assassin. You fight it with everything inside you!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the applicant and, of course, through her, our former colleague, Mrs Berndsen, with whom I have had many debates on this subject. I know how intensive it is to write and defend an initiative proposal. Compliments for work. I have some mixed feelings about the content of this proposal, which will not surprise the applicant, but compliments and a word of appreciation for the work that has been done and also for the people behind Mrs Bergkamp. Legislation is our core task. We must now debate the quality of this. I would like to say that I do not wish to question the reasons for the applicant in any way. It's about health, about safety. Noble goals are set. But it is very, very much the question whether these means will achieve those objectives. To make that clear, I could have read the opinion of the Council of State in full. I have considered this for a moment, but you have all been able to read yourself that the Council of State is extremely hard on this proposal in its well-known cautious wording. He doubts whether the legislative proposal will be effective and sufficiently substantial and presents a whole series of fundamental concerns, on which I find the reaction of the initiators really insufficient. I could also have read Mr Bontes' contribution, at least from 2014 and 2015. Those were really good contributions. On 19 February 2014 and 11 June 2015, he spoke out against the regulation of weed cultivation in the famous round of words. "No solution," said the judgment, "we come with it from the rain in the drip." It would make the Netherlands even more a narcostat. In the meantime, Mr Bontes has a different boss and a different position and, as far as our group is concerned, a conversion has taken place. I understand from the media that his group may be decisive for the majority of this proposal. I find it disappointing that she is not aware of this. I could have read those contributions. I'm not doing that. I choose my own words. The opinion of the Council of State is known to all participants. I'll leave that aside, though I'll refer to it here and there. The Dutch Group must only speak for itself, if it still shows up. Let me begin with my starting point for this debate. Like the initiators, I believe that the current policy of tolerance is not sustainable. We agree on that. I hope, however, that there has been a little more embarrassment with the applicant and with the first two groups who have spoken here. It is really utopian to think that a blueprint of perfect policy is conceivable here, that we can roll out in a moment, and that this bill will get everything under control. In previous tolerating situations and previous uncomfortable situations, such as gambling and prostitution, we also thought: oh boys, tolerate is difficult, let us regulate; then everything will be okay. But that turned out to be extremely persistent and complicated, so a little more embarrassment would be nice. As I said, as far as our group is concerned, the current policy of tolerance is not sustainable. We are opposed to this. These concerns have only been confirmed in recent years, but unlike the initiators, the Christian Union Group does not believe that the solution is to tolerate and regulate even more. On the contrary, we must move away from the policy of tolerance by tackling all drug-related crime more vigorously and ultimately banning drugs. If we take steps in this direction, the thresholds for drug use and drug trafficking must be raised instead of down. We must break radically with the Dutch drug culture, with a clear norm on drugs and adequate government action, because soft drugs do not exist. With the fiction we have created here in the Netherlands about romantic weed use and the idea that a pill should sometimes be possible, we are fooling ourselves. Our practice, this practice is not an achievement to be proud of, but leads to crime, addiction and health damage. Well, the initiators always say that it is precisely for this reason that they argue for the complete tolerance of the front and back doors of soft drug entrepreneurs. That is what they are doing: if we do this properly, then we will be rid of all the negative consequences. I think that's a real fiction, a utopia, I've already said. The Council of State and previously Mr Bontes agree with me. We know how harmful drugs are, especially for young people. There are health risks, including weed. For example, there is a risk of permanent psychological damage, effects on education and work, and the risk of addiction and the use of other addictive substances. Does the initiator agree with me and does she share the concern that normalising pot use will lead to more addicted young people? In replying to previous questions, the initiator states that she believes that the government should take action to prevent drug use. How do these efforts relate to this proposal? I'd like to get a response. Many families in the Netherlands have experienced how devastating drug use can be: young people who throw away their future by drugs and adults trapped in addiction. We all know the organization Brave Mothers. It has faced this and has made a compelling plea to us not to do so and not to adopt this proposal. Moreover, the Dutch drug culture has led to a lot of crime. The current policy of tolerance has ensured that the Netherlands, as a gateway to Europe, has a very favourable locational environment for illegal drug trafficking. Year by year reports show that our country is a major transit country for drugs and we face the serious consequences of this every day. Crime, undermining and nuisance are the order of the day. The pot sector is intertwined with the underworld. A study carried out in 2006 among Utrecht and Amsterdam coffeeshop holders showed that 60% to 70% of coffeeshop holders had a judicial past. Of the 314 investigations into organised, undermining crime in 2015, 34% were related to large-scale hemp cultivation. You can see that underworld and aboveworld are intertwined, for example for money laundering. They are entrepreneurs in that network who now have the infrastructure to provide themselves with access to a closed system that favours D66. I'm worried about that. The initiator has the illusion that this connection to crime will disappear if there is a closed system. Can the initiator back that up? Does that also mean that the integrity of coffee shop owners and growers must be beyond any doubt? Shouldn't there always be a Bibob advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u31	Here, in a reasonable tone, a plea is made with a well-thought-out basis that results in a different outcome from the considerations of my party. Then there is also a point in a debate. Let's look at the countries around us. The Netherlands came first with the policy of tolerance and the countries around us were much stricter. In America there was a mess on drugs. In the end, you see that in a lot of these countries it is concluded that the war on drugs cannot be won. I recognize the problem outlined, but perhaps with some other figures. Then what's the better way to fight it? A small country resists last and continues the war on drugs? Or are you saying we'd rather not, but we're gonna have to do something? Then what is the least harmful? What could be the decisive factor for the Christian Union to say: then stop this war on drugs and try to get a grip on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u32	Firstly, the context is different. It's not this little country fighting drugs on its own, while all the other countries are going to regulate and open the locks and open coffee shops. No, we'll be an exception. It is precisely the European context that makes this proposal extremely problematic. I'll get back to you in a minute. Because you can't do this on your own. It always has a relationship with the countries around you. We are now seeing this in the border region, and that will only increase. It is therefore extremely unwise, as the Netherlands, to take such a decision alone, regardless of its neighbouring countries. So the context is different. Secondly, there will always be a persistent practice, but we have it in many areas. I'll make a somewhat unfriendly comparison. There will always be burglaries, there will always be theft. Then you don't say, "Oh, guys, that's just the way it is. We open the back door so that thieves can come in a little easier." No, then you're gonna better arm yourself and raise higher thresholds against what you don't want. So that's the direction. So I agree with the analysis that the half-hearted policy we have now, with a difference between front and back, is difficult or not really explainable. However, that requires a different solution than saying: you know what, those thresholds go down, we put a government stamp "fine" and "controlled" on drugs and create an atmosphere around it that it's fine. That's a wrong signal to young people. So I would really like to move in a different direction than lowering thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u33	I see two kinds of arguments. One is that there is a huge crime around it; so we really want to ban it in the hope that it will reduce crime. The other is caring for our young people, adults, our public health. In addition, you may ask yourself what is most helpful in terms of public health. Forbidden? Or regulate, even if you don't want to? I am not very fond of a lot of things, such as gambling, prostitution and excessive alcohol consumption, but regulating works better in all these areas than banning. So how does the Christian Union come up with a ban? I don't know a country where these cases have been successfully banned. If Mr Segers knows them, he can call them. So that's regulated. Why should this sector be an exception to this rule? Why should radical bans work best there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u34	I'm going into these two parallels. The first is the comparison I made earlier with prostitution, a comparison that can always seem somewhat unfriendly. We have said: that is normal work. What was the hope? Before legalisation, trafficking in human beings and prostitution were completely intertwined. We said, "We have to tear that apart." That's a very noble goal. That didn't work. Every year there are 1,500 reports of trafficking in human beings in prostitution, including in the regulated, legalised part. It's extremely complicated to completely untangle it in those kind of worlds. I do think it is utopian to think that this would work. The other parallel was: this is bad for young people, so should you ban it and then is that the way? Especially when it comes to smoking, we come from a situation shortly after the war in which about 90% smoked. We were in smoke cups and during meetings the cigarettes were on the table. There is a very broad consensus that this is very unhealthy. Our commitment was to slowly but surely limit that practice, raise thresholds and make it clear that this is not normal, that this is unhealthy. That was the bet. Here we would do the opposite. We know how unhealthy it is and then we're going to say, "It's actually illegal now, but we're making it legal. Now we say it's not good, but we're going to put a government stamp on it. Now we say that it is all forbidden and that we must fight it, but we ensure that it is partly legal or at least permitted." That's a wrong signal. That's a wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u35	Firstly, I congratulate Mr Segers on his tone. I didn't see it that way today. Mr Segers says clearly: we have to deal with it. The note following the report states a fine sentence: "that the number of clients seeking help primarily for alcohol in addiction care is almost as high as the number for cannabis, cocaine, opiates, ecstasy, amphetamine, GHB and other drugs put together." Those are numbers from the Trimbos Institute. According to his own reasoning, Mr Segers must therefore ban alcohol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u36	No. It was the Christian Union Group that, together with a whole range of other groups, I believe even the D66 Group took the initiative to raise the alcohol age from 16 to 18 years. What was the direction? The direction was: we are going to raise a higher threshold. Why? Because we know that the impact is dramatic on young people's brain development. So we raised the threshold. Here we would do the opposite. This is where we'd lower the threshold. That is not the direction we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u37	On the sales side, nothing changes. In fact, there will be more regulation. The 18-year-old age limit also applies to Mrs Bergkamp's bill. So that's a weird equation. If Mr Segers says that we have to take it hard anyway because it is bad for public health and if I compare figures from the Trimbos Institute showing that it is more alcohol than all other drugs combined, then Mr Segers must also be consistent and say: then we must also ban alcohol.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u38	I have outlined the situation in which there is discomfort about the difference between the front door and the back door. Then what's the route you choose? Do you choose the route to normalization? Do you choose the route to lowering thresholds? Or are you making it harder? The latter is a "step by step" route. I'm saying don't paint a utopian picture, don't paint the fiction that you have the solution to all the problems, that regulation will break out the walhalla. No, that's an extremely risky route. But I must not say, on the other hand, that I have the process with which it is all ready immediately and with which we can immediately eliminate drugs completely. It can't be. Now I'm going to go into your "alcohol is very bad" equation. The Council of State looks at and refers to studies on the impact of drug addiction. We see that the demand for help is increasing and that the problem is growing. That is indeed the case with alcohol. That is why we are also in favour of a very active policy of prevention, information and making it more difficult to obtain alcohol. For smoking, the same is true. We are consistent in that. And the same goes for drugs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u39	I just want to point out that the confusion about drugs has not really worked in the whole world. Look at all the examples from all over the world where there is a fight against drug repression. That's where criminals make money from drug trafficking. It is precisely this proposal that regulates both the front door, which we have been doing for 40 years, and now finally the back door. It also provides tools to regulate, control, prevent, monitor and also maintain health on the age criterion. It really is a step in the right direction. I know the Christian Union as a sensible party, which also knows that the impossible is not possible. This step forward should therefore be a warm welcome to the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u40	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u41	I said I don't question motives. The hope of Mr Koolmees is mine, namely that you can better control it, that you can do something about health and that you can protect young people from drugs. His hope is mine, but his route is not mine. I really think it's a fiction. I really think it's a very naive hope. I'll help him hope. If we were to go down this road, I can only hope that it will benefit young people. But I'm holding my heart because the signal's wrong, and I already said it because the thresholds are going down. As far as I'm concerned, this is an unwise route. I shall continue with my speech, Madam President, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u42	No, Mr. Van Nispen is still here. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u43	I am very curious about the rest of the speech, but I do have a question, if Mr Segers does not mind. I have heard a few times tonight that there would be parties, perhaps I am, perhaps that is the initiator's party who pretend that this bill would solve all the problems. To be honest, I haven't heard that tonight. I didn't read it in the papers either. I'd like to make that right. My question, however, is about lowering thresholds. In what way exactly, so very precise, does this proposal reduce the thresholds?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u44	The signal that is being sent is: this is okay, this is legal, this is regulated, this is fine. That's the signal you're sending. That is exactly the question that Brave Mothers ask us: do not do this; this is not the signal that my children, who have a drug problem, should get. So that's lowering a threshold to go there. Now we are sending out the signal: this is not okay; we are forced to tolerate something, but it is not okay. Soon the signal will be: it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u45	Mr Van Nispen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u46	The signal "it's okay" is the stamp, the frame, that the Christian Union wants to put on this bill. They have to keep it very clean. I don't think it's in the papers or anywhere in the bill. I don't think anyone's said it yet either tonight. "It's okay," "young people, it's okay," nobody says that. What this proposal is actually doing is going a step further in what I think is the right direction: the direction of tolerance. We now have the strange situation of being tolerated at the front door and not wanting to know where everything on the back door comes from. We keep our hands in front of our eyes. For that, this bill is a solution. So I ask Mr Segers once again: think again very deeply. I know that the Christian Union is not in favour of legalisation, but this bill is about regulated tolerance. It's a consistent step...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u47	Mr Van Nispen, ask your question. You have already made your speech, as the first speaker. So perhaps you should just ask your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u48	I would ask Mr Segers to consider very carefully whether this step towards tolerance does not lead to a more consistent policy and decriminalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u49	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u50	Since a large part of the production is destined for abroad, this will always remain intertwined with crime and we will not be able to separate it completely. We also say "this is checked" and "this is regulated." Let me give you an example. There have been arguments to check for large-scale dance-events pills for quality. In that case the signal is: this is checked, approved and usable for consumption. That's a different signal than when you say clearly: we don't want this, this is bad for your health, you shouldn't do this, and this is something you should stay away from. That should be the signal. That's the signal that the Brave Mothers are asking us to deliver. That's the signal I'd like to give you. We shouldn't say, guys, it's uncomfortable, but you know what, let's make it a little more normal. Because that is the effect this law will have.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u51	Mr Segers, you will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u52	Can the initiator make it clear what further measures need to be taken to achieve a clean, closed system? Isn't that a utopia? What does the bill really contribute to the fight against organised crime? Is it not going to continue despite this proposal? I would also like to ask this in the light of the strong criticism of the Council of State on this point. I would also like to respond further to the view that this legislative proposal makes it more difficult to tackle the public order issue of drug tourism. That's what the Council of State put on the petitioner's sign. I am also surprised at the letter of amendment that has been tabled. This makes it possible to use illegal providers during a transitional period. So the back door remains ajar. Why? And what does it mean that coffee shop owners should actively strive to purchase from a grower with a tolerated decision? How exactly do we check "as far as reasonably possible"? How do we test that criterion, which is now being applied? When does the applicant expect the transitional period to be completed? Then I come to international law. I have already said a few words about this, but I have a few more questions, so a little bit more about that. The Council of State has pointed out that the bill does not comply with international conventions. Weed and hashish are still on the lists of banned narcotic drugs under two major international conventions: the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs and the United Nations Convention against illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. The Netherlands must comply with these conventions in good faith and this bill does not fit in with that, the Council says. What do the initiators think of this criticism? Why didn't they reconsider their bill? Why have they not included in their legislative proposals a Dutch withdrawal from the international conventions referred to by the Council of State? I would be very opposed to that, but it would be consistent of the party that normally is eager to defend itself with international treaties, but then towards others and at other points. I would also like to ask the Minister of Security and Justice to reflect on this. Does he agree with the Council of State? What are the consequences of that? There are also European legal problems. According to the Council of State, it is becoming difficult to maintain the resident criterion because of European law. The initiator has therefore chosen not to legalize, but to allow exceptions. However, I doubt whether that is a convincing legal construction, because its material effect does not differ. Will the resident criterion, combined with this bill, not continue to be absolved by European law? Where does the initiator base the view that this can be accepted? It has already been said from several quarters that regulation should really take place at European level. I would also like a reflection of my Europe-loving colleague on that. Does the initiator agree? Can the Netherlands do this alone? We risk wasting precious time in the fight against drugs on a utopian project, as far as I am concerned, based on the same mistake as the original policy of tolerance: that weed use would be an innocent thing and that coffeeshops would be a kind of snack bar. Let us not waste our energy regulating so-called soft drugs, but let us invest in prevention, in more attention to addiction care and in helping families with drug-related problems. Or in holding the perpetrators responsible for drug dumping and the production of drugs, for example by forcing them to make a contribution to the fund that co-finances the disposal of waste, in combating the undermining of drug-related crime, my colleague from the CDA already referred to the fact that it is a very serious problem in many municipalities, or in increasingly reducing the number of coffee shops and closing the front door and back door of coffee shops. The Christian Union believes that this bill would make a mistake. I'm not the only one who thinks that. I mentioned the Council of State, and I mentioned Mr Bontes, whose colleague I see sitting in the Chamber. Let's not do this. It's my call. However, all this does not prevent me from looking forward to a further exchange of views with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr. Chairman. I will begin by congratulating the initiator, but also my former colleague Berndsen and the support, with this beautiful law. They have all worked very hard on this. It has become a beautiful law and it can't be a surprise in this room that D66 can agree with that. A good solution has been found to a legally complex problem. This law solves the paradoxical policy for coffeeshops. There is an end to the unsustainable distinction between the front door and the back door, between selling hemp and hash on the one hand and growing and supplying it on the other. The regulation of the supply and cultivation of cannabis matches the time in which we live now. As a progressive party, D66 dares to find a solution. There is also growing social support for this: from the young liberals of the JOVD to the mayors of various political parties, from former prime ministers like Dries van Agt to judges who declare themselves in a legal gap. As early as 2009 the opinion No doors, but actions indicated the desirability of regulating the supply of cannabis. In 2012, a poll showed that 45% was for regulation. Three years later, in 2015, that had already risen to 61%. Mayors also ask for regulation. They are confronted daily with the consequences of the slanted tolerance policy and therefore know what they are talking about. By the way, the so-called Joint Regulation was signed by 59 mayors. 59 mayors are asking for the regulation of cannabis cultivation. These are 59 mayors whose municipalities together have 465 coffee shops. That is almost 80% of the total of coffeeshops in the Netherlands. Of those 59 mayors there are 11 of CDA-house and no less than 15 of the VVD. On top of that, 89% of municipalities recently signed the VNG resolution calling for local experiments with regulated weed cultivation. I have a question for the fresh Minister of Security and Justice. Is the Minister prepared, like D66, to recognise and act on the growing social support for regulation? This law finally puts an end to the paradoxical policy for coffeeshops. There will be a closed coffee shop chain and a number of objectives will be served by regulating both the front door and the back door, i.e. the sale of cannabis as well as the supply and cultivation of cannabis, namely public health, public order and security, legal certainty for coffee shop owners and financial returns. I'm gonna walk past these four points. Public health is the first issue. By regulating the cultivation and supply of cannabis, we can also improve the quality of the product. We can make terms. We can check it out. This prevents all kinds of harmful substances or pesticides from entering cannabis. In addition, we can step up the preventive approach by putting information on what is in the cannabis and warnings on the harmful substances on the packaging, as we already do with tobacco. A targeted information and discouragement policy should also be pursued. It seems to me that advertising for hemp and hashish is still prohibited, as is the case with tobacco. I would like to receive a response from the author on this point. I would like to know from the Secretary of State what possibilities he sees with this bill in terms of better information for young people on the use of weed and its effects. What steps does he intend to take in this regard? Last year, during a United Nations special session on drugs in New York, the U.S. Secretary of State said that more attention should be paid to public health in the fight against drugs. How does he see the present bill in that line? Does he agree that it has been proven that the War on Drugs is not working? In what way, according to the Secretary of State at VWS, does the current policy contribute to the objective of increasing public health attention in the fight against drugs? I come to the second point: security and public order. By allowing cultivation, this is removed from crime and criminal organisations are excluded from trade. As a result, less capacity is needed from the police and the judiciary. The question is, of course, whether this will deal with all illegality and exports. The answer to that question is, of course, no. More needs to be done, but this bill is a step in the right direction, as Mr Van Nispen said. There will be a hard distinction between the tolerated cultivation and the unsatisfied cultivation, which will therefore be continued. Moreover, the capacity released can be used by the police and the judiciary to combat unsatisfied cultivation and export. In addition, the mayors and municipal councils themselves have a great responsibility for local policy and thus for maintaining public order. For example, they can decide for themselves whether or not to set the resident criterion. At the same time, municipalities are obliged to include rules on the distance criterion between schools and coffee shops and on discouragement policies. Can the Secretary of State state state his opinion on the decentralisation of the local authority's or non-centralisation of the resident criterion? How does he assess this decentralisation and the possibility of local tailor-made work? My third point is legal certainty for coffee shop owners. This bill introduces the system of regulated tolerance in front of the back door of coffee shops, i.e. the cultivation and supply of cannabis. This makes it possible for coffee shop owners to keep their accounts in order. They can operate completely and transparently as a normal company. Of course, that's what they're used to. Entrepreneurs no longer have to hide how they manage the supply. Also, these entrepreneurs are no longer forced to engage with criminal organisations. So the cultivation and the supply are decriminalized and taken out of the goddamn corner. This is a profit for the coffee shop owner, for the judiciary, for the police and ultimately for the user. That brings me to the final point: financial revenues. That is also the case. As the financial spokesman for the D66 Group, I am very pleased that there are still financial revenues. That is money that we can use for the preventive approach. Firstly, the regulation of cultivation can save EUR 24.8 million in the case of police and justice, according to the calculations made by the Ministry of Security and Justice itself. Secondly, tax revenues are increasing. According to the Ministry of Finance, regulated tolerance can generate annual tax revenues of EUR 150 million. This bill will no longer allow growers to illegally tap electricity, which means that both the government and the energy companies are still missing a lot of money. Instead, his energy is going to buy and pay taxes on it legally. They will also pay income and corporation tax. So that's also an advantage for the treasury. Perhaps there will be a consumption tax if it is necessary to regulate the price of cannabis. I have two more questions about that. Can the rulers indicate how they feel about such a consumption tax? Can the author also explain this? Is such a consumption tax necessary or not? The regulated tolerance, as proposed by the initiator, is a good solution to a legally very complex problem. For years the Netherlands has been waiting for a solution to this paradoxical policy, whereby the sale of cannabis is allowed, but not the cultivation and supply at the back door. As far as D66 is concerned, the smarter regulation, as is done with this bill, is the solution that coffee shop owners, growers, local administrators, judges and consumers are waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u54	I hope I did not miss it, but how does this bill relate to the international treaties we have committed ourselves to? The Council of State says it's against that. We often stick together when it comes to our commitment to international treaties, for example against the statelessness of citizens. There we often say quite legally: we must abide by that. Does that apply here, too? Do these treaties need to be adapted? How does the D66 Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u55	That's actually three questions mixed up. Indeed, D66 is a state-of-the-art party that loves international cooperation. Firstly, the draft law has been amended following criticism by the Council of State. These are fundamental adjustments which will make it fit into the Treaties now. Secondly, there are mixed signals. There are two reports from scientists at Radboud University. One report says it's tricky. The other report says: if you also look at the European Convention on Human Rights and at civil rights, Mr Van Nispen mentioned the list of candidates, then there are very good arguments for allowing it, from a public health, human rights and civil rights point of view. Thirdly, Mr Segers asked whether I think that the treaty should be amended. Yeah, that's my preferred option. I believe that Mr Van Nispen or Mrs Van Tongeren said: we should really want that. Sure, but it's not ready yet. We must do it with the treaties that we now have. That is why this proposal has been tailor-made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u56	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u57	Finally, again. I think it's a very strange answer. It fits within the treaty, but the treaty needs to be adapted. It's two-and-a-half. Either it doesn't fit and then you have to choose the royal path and change the treaty, or it fits. Mr Koolmees says that it fits with the amended bill. As a state-of-the-art, D66 should want that to be resubmitted to the Council of State: does this amended bill fit within the Treaties under which we have signed? An internationally oriented party such as D66 should be very much inclined to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u58	The distinction is in legalizing or regulating him. Following the criticism of the Council of State, the initiator modified the proposal. That was the answer to the criticism that came from the Council of State in November. Why did the Council of State criticise the original bill? That was indeed about legalizing. That is contrary to those international treaties. As Mr Van Nispen pointed out, I believe that we should strive for this, but that is not the case at the moment. We will have to deal with this internationally. Given the developments in the countries around the world, from Uruguay to Spain to the United States, there is a great deal of reason to have a good international discussion on this. It can be both, in fact, it has to be both. In order to take this step and properly regulate the front and back doors of coffee shops from the point of view of public health, rule of law, public order and security, this is an excellent legislative proposal. But that doesn't mean we're already here. Perhaps another nice question to the rulers of Security and Justice is whether the cabinet believes that we should make an international effort in the coming years to get these treaties adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP, who has just made his last notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u60	Madam President. You have these subjects that come along every so often and where at some point you have the feeling that everything has actually been said about them in the course of time. Drugs is one of them. A second topic is referenda. A third topic is whether or not the Hedwigepolder should be flooded. These are the subjects of the past ten or fifteen years that come every so many times. The special part is often no longer in the content of the arguments, but the exciting part is only in which turns parties possibly make. What is the position of the parties, will they remain the same or will they become different? Sometimes there is a conversion in the right direction, as with the CDA, and sometimes a conversion in the wrong direction, as with VNL, the Group Bontes/Van Klaveren, as I still have to say. In that respect, I do not have much exciting to offer on behalf of the SGP tonight. Our position remains the same. The only exciting thing was that the spokesmen on the left in the Chamber challenged me to make my speech with an appropriate Bible text. That was the last note I wrote. At the end of my speech, I will try to respond to that challenge. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Bergkamp on the fact that her bill is being discussed in this Chamber today and that she has written and defended this bill. It's always quite a challenge. Just the fact that Mrs Bergkamp is addressing this challenge, I am not talking about the content, but the challenge as such is worth complimenting. But I can also give a strong compliment to the content, and that is the problem analysis. That analysis is that there is an unsustainable gap. Indeed, the current policy of tolerance, in which sales and use are tolerated but not the production of hemp and hashish, has created an unworkable situation. And yes, that has indeed created a problem, but that is, of course, nothing new. It is new that this is becoming more and more widespread, but from the beginning of the tolerated situation in the Netherlands that was already the case. Our political desire is not to go further in this wrong direction, but rather to return from this path of tolerance and to stop the whole policy of tolerance. We want to stop doing this because we have seen too much and too often since the beginning of the policy of tolerance that drugs, in whatever form, result in addictions, health problems and financial problems. Of course, these effects are not the same for all drugs and the effects are not always the same, but the fact that the problem of addiction exists and that these health effects are often detrimental has been sufficiently highlighted in all documents. That is what we hear coming back to us in the practical stories of a lot of people who say, please, do not continue on this route. Of course, you also have to learn from others, as well as from the think tank of the VVD. There I came to Mrs Charlotte Lockefeer, who has good insights on a number of subjects, to a view that I liked in the field of drugs. She says that in fact it is not a fundamental route to legalize all that, but a very opportunistic route. Basically, you have to say: the freedom of choice that other parties invoke is not at issue here, because it remains essentially a product that is at odds with human freedom and responsibility. I thought that was a good typography. Moreover, you run the risk, as the Council of State pointed out, that with these further steps in the field of tolerance you are actually cooperating in a social environment in which the use of any drugs is even more regarded as normal. We say: no weed is better than regulated weed. The initiativer's idea is that further regulation can lead to some kind of channeling and that all kinds of adverse effects are eliminated. To this end, a wide range of decisions must be requested. I was wondering whether the initiativer's confidence in the intrinsic goodness of the human being was not in evidence that she believed that those who now gain profits from illegal practices would all be willing to choose this regulated route. I would like to support Mr Segers in drawing attention to our experiences in the field of games of chance, where this idea of channeling was also very clearly present. This was even more recent in the field of prostitution, where the idea of channeling has been followed again. There is still little scientific evidence from the practice that this effect actually occurs. Isn't that above all some kind of faith instead of a proven reality? The initiator expects her bill to contribute to the reduction of illegal growing of weed. I have already indicated that this is only a very serious question for us. Can the initiator say that there is a good chance that illegal trade will increase, as it will be more difficult to sell a crop directly to coffee shops? On what basis does it base the argument that it would be plausible that illegal cultivation, including through criminal partnerships, will decline as a result of this bill? The initiative seeks to ensure that pot growers who have a decision to tolerate it no longer have any room to produce for other purposes, including exports. She even goes so far that she expects a grower to destroy all his unattended cannabis if he can't sell it to tolerated coffeeshops. Isn't that a little trusting? I ask this in the light of the practice we have been seeing so far and the intertwinedness with forms of crime. In Article 6c, the initiator proposes that coffee shop operators who have a decision to tolerate should, to the extent reasonably possible, buy the hemp and hashish to be sold from growers who have a decision to tolerate. If at a given point in time sufficient decisions have been taken by the professional or professional producers, that provision should, according to the initiator, be repealed. What exactly does the initiator mean by "as far as reasonably possible"? Isn't that a bit vague text for a law? How is compliance checked? How does the initiator assess the risk that the inclusion of this temporary provision could reduce the willingness to apply for a decision to be tolerated in the short term? This is a way of boycotting the proposal as it were. When, according to the initiator, should this provision in Article 6c, which uses the phrase "as far as reasonably possible," be deleted at the latest? Let me make a comment on the price. The report calls for the opinion of the initiator that the selling price will be reduced. We still have a few questions to ask about the basis. What does the initiator expect municipalities to charge for applications? Can it quantify the effect of the price as a result of the Minister's decisions on the maximum quantity of hemp for which cultivation is tolerated? Isn't the price of weed becoming more attractive? Will this not increase the use? I would like to receive a further response, also in the light of what the Council of State has said about this. The initiator leaves the choice to apply the resident criterion to individual municipalities. Isn't it very vulnerable not to settle this nationwide? How does the initiator and the government view this? Finally, I would like to hear from the initiator and the government a reflection on the relationship with international law. The Council of State noted that the proposal was contrary to international law. The initiator modified the proposal accordingly. We are no longer talking about legalisation, but a grower who fulfils the conditions of the law and has a certificate of tolerance still commits a criminal offence. This is a situation of regulated tolerance. The question remains how the initiator can justify that the amended proposal would now be in conformity with international and European law. In any case, my group is not convinced of this; it remains at odds with that. Those were some of the questions I wanted to put. I'm curious about the reaction to it. Finally, the promised Bible text. It's usually those negative lyrics about why it's all bad and all bad. This often brings parties to the sigh whether nothing beautiful is possible anymore. I don't know that personally, that you're wondering if life is still fun without weed. However, you must also be able to move into the thought world of others. That is why I would like to make a positive point. It is what the wise Preacher says: "Behold what I have seen, a good thing that is clean: to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good..." Couldn't we see more opportunities to enjoy the good?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the author of this solid initiative on a politically sensitive subject, as we have noticed today. In the 1970s, Professor Hulsman pleaded for the first time for the decriminalisation of cannabis. The national government at the time initiated a change which resulted in the so-called "tolerance policy." The policy of tolerance means that the possession of certain drugs is actually punishable, but in certain circumstances there is no criminal prosecution. A distinction is made between hard drugs, such as cocaine and heroin, and soft drugs, such as hash and weed. Because soft drugs are less harmful to health than hard drugs, different rules sometimes apply. Coffeeshops, for example, can sell pot and hash under strict conditions, despite the fact that it is actually punishable. They will not be prosecuted for this. This is the essence of the tolerance policy, which exists for about 40 years. Perhaps this has worked in the past, but as far as we are concerned it is time for modernisation. It is time for more freedom and more realism. The Netherlands as a liberal guide country on this theme has now been overtaken by Uruguay, several states in the somewhat conservative US and even Argentina. Apart from the time to respond to the demand for more freedom, the current policy also brings with it major disadvantages that we need to overcome as quickly as possible. Allowing what is prohibited by law results in undesirable situations in practice. First of all, current government policy forces coffeeshop owners to engage in formal criminal acts. This is what is called the back door: where soft drugs are marketed. In addition, a government that deliberately fails to comply with the law also undermines the rule of law and creates an unclear situation for the citizen as to what can and cannot be done. Furthermore, the individual is severely restricted in his or her freedom to decide independently to use a particular, relatively harmless, medicinal product. The connection to regulations on alcohol and tobacco would be logical, all the more so because research by RIVM shows that cannabis is no more harmful than alcohol and tobacco. On the contrary, a deadly overdose of cannabis, despite the claims of our former Minister of Security and Justice, has never been registered. Research shows that within 15 minutes you should smoke 680 kg of weed for such an overdose. Everyone knows this is impossible. From an economic point of view, too, current policies are not profitable. The failure to levy excise duty on the product will cost society hundreds of millions of euros that could otherwise be spent on combating real crime. The current approach even creates an additional burden on the judiciary. The hunt for cannabis is a huge seizure of the capacity of police and justice. Illustrative for this is a statement by Chief Frans Heeres of the police Central and West Brabant: "Indeed 40% of our detection device is being used against hemp crime. Hemp is our biggest concern." VNL is the only right-wing party to put an end to the policy of tolerance and legalisation of cannabis for the above reasons. A recent survey of Motivation............................................................................................................................................................... Legalisation and thus liberalisation of soft drugs policy leads to greater individual freedom of citizens, economic benefits for society, clarity for citizens about what is allowed and what is not allowed and more police capacity and finally puts an end to the undermining of the rule of law. We therefore regard the D66 proposal as a first step in the right direction. If I have counted correctly, we will be decisive in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u62	The city shouldn't be a drug dealer. Hemp cultivation leads to nuisance and decay. The viability of neighborhoods is compromised. You can and you can't. That is why we need to act hard. That was a strong text from two years ago, expressed by Mr Bontes. You can then stand behind the chair and recite a text that could have been proposed by the GroenLinks, D66 or SP two years ago. You can and you can. But it would be nice to take us along a little bit in the steps that have been taken between then and now. How did you see the light? How exactly did that happen? What argument did you argue? What happened in those two years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u63	I really like the fact that the Christian Union just missed me here. It was almost a call to come here. I also think it is very positive that you call it "seeing the light." That's a fine expression that also suits your constituents. You asked for our position. Our party has a general assembly of members, a board and a political group. When we established our programme, we had discussions between those three entities. We have come to the conclusion that it is better for the Netherlands if we move towards legalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u64	So we've had a survey of Motivation, you've had a vote at your congress and you've changed your mind. So if it had been just 49% in that vote, then you would have spoken your texts here two years ago. Do you really find something? Is it just a kind of GeenPeil: passing on an opinion of by chance a majority? Or does your group really find something and do you have any arguments that have changed your mind? What was the decisive argument that the sturdy texts of two or three years ago turned into a text that can be pronounced by a D66'er and a GroenLinkser?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u65	I know you're trying very hard to put us away as D66 or GroenLinks. I don't think most people who read the party program will draw that conclusion. But that's up to you. You often say things that aren't quite in line with what I think and what I believe. I have just given seven arguments why we think it would be better for the Netherlands to move towards legalisation rather than maintaining policies that undermine the rule of law. That's something you shouldn't want either. In addition, you are now playing down a member party. In my opinion, a general assembly of members of associations is always decisive. We have come to the conclusion, after internal and immeasurable reflection, that it is better for the Netherlands to move towards legalization. I've just given you the reasons for that. Indeed, if in a general assembly of Members the majority decides to turn left, then we turn left. If we want to go right, we'll go right. This is the position of VNL. VNL wasn't in the Chamber two years ago. We will participate for the first time in the Lower House elections of 15 March. You are, of course, invited to vote for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u66	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the Labour Party, I would like to congratulate the initiator and her predecessor on this dossier, Mrs Berndsen-Jansen, and her team on this initiative law. Words on this matter have already been spoken by several parties. I'm gonna focus on the content. I can be very brief: the Labour Party is in favour of this law. If this bill achieves a majority in the Second and First Chambers, a step can be taken to break the deadlock in current policy. Now there's a big magic trick. You can buy the weed, but it's like a rabbit coming out of a top hat somewhere at the back door of the coffee shop. Sales are tolerated, cultivation is not allowed. That has not proved to be a good policy, as my party has been advocating for years. No, we're not naive. Attention should be paid to problematic uses, as should prevention and information. So we welcome this initiative law. If it all works out, it's a step in the right direction. A breakthrough. However, the Labour Party still has questions about how this law will work in practice. We read in the legislative proposal and also in the answers to our written questions that in practice the functioning of this law is still surrounded by uncertainties. This cannot be otherwise, as the situation before and after the entry into force of this law cannot be compared. We don't know what it's gonna be like soon. The answer shows that the initiator does not have the illusion that the criminal circuit suddenly ceases to exist because of her legislative proposal. I share that insight and am even more hesitant than Mrs Bergkamp. Criminals will want to continue to make money from weed and criminal organisations will continue to produce for the foreign market. Nor can it be expected that growers who are now growing in their attic under dangerous conditions for the criminal circuit, which they are often unable to avoid, will suddenly stop growing. Then why am I in favour of this bill? Why is my party in favour of this bill? That is because, in addition to realism, we also share the optimism of the initiator. This bill can ensure that part, hopefully a large part, of the market can be managed properly, in a closed and controlled chain. This will partly, hopefully a large part, take the wind out of the sails and will ensure that the composition of weed and its effects on public health can be controlled. Moreover, the clear separation between the tolerated and the unsatisfied chain can be better maintained. The capacity in the police and justice sector, which is still focused on the whole pot market, will no longer be needed for the tolerated part. The capacity released can and should then be focused on the criminal circuit. I still have questions about that. The initiator states that the police can better focus their efforts with its own initiative law on tackling organised crime. How does she see that? In regions such as Brabant and Zeeland, organised crime is seriously undermining them and we see how people who are tempted by the fast money promised are being abused. We can see that the police are dismantling hemp plantations, which they call themselves mopping with the crane open, and that people are condemned for this, but we are still not getting enough to the big fish, with all the consequences. How do we ensure that the separation created by Mrs Bergkamp's own-initiative proposal also leads to a clearer commitment to the effective handling of organised crime? I'd like a response from the initiator. Despite all optimism, the law must not lead to the criminal chain continuing to thrive alongside the tolerated chain. Mrs Bergkamp added a transitional arrangement by letter of amendment. During that period, coffeeshops should, to the extent reasonably possible, make their purchases from tolerated growers. As the initiator assumes that the offer is not immediately large enough for all coffeeshops, it should continue to be large enough for unsatisfied growers, as is the case at present. However, I do not see anywhere that this transitional period is in any way limited in time. That term ends when there's enough tolerated offer. How are we gonna stop that from happening? What incentive is there in the bill to ensure that there is a sufficiently large tolerated offer? What incentive do coffee shop owners have to buy exclusively there? I would, however, need a specific timetable and I would therefore like a response from the initiator on this point. This bill is intended to create two separate pot chains. Therefore, it cannot be the intention to buy for a longer period of time from both tolerated growers and unsatisfied growers, who therefore still feel protected by this transitional regime. It is precisely because I want this law to work that it is good to have more certainty about its consequences in practice. I therefore think it is right that the law should be reviewed for the first time after three years, but it also seems useful to report annually on the transition to the tolerated chain. This is precisely what I want to do to prevent us from finding out after three years that we have overlooked any adverse effects. That's why I want to keep my finger on the wrist in time. I would also like to receive a response from the initiator. Today in the Volkskrant there was an opinion piece by Stijn Hoorens, researcher at the institute RAND. He's giving a clear profit warning, that's what I'd like to call it. The greater the economic interests of pot growing, the more difficult it is to reverse policies. He also states that we must guard against idealisation of states such as Colorado. He writes that the impact of this initiative law depends on the size of the export figures. And if the price of cannabis in the coffee shop is too high, the street trade will thrive. If that price is too low, demand is likely to rise. Hoorens indicates that all design choices need to be carefully considered in advance and that careful monitoring and, if necessary, adjustment is needed. I would like to hear from Mrs Bergkamp how she looks at Mr Hoorens' profit warning. I would like to say the following about the added value of this initiative law for public health. Quality requirements and packaging requirements can be set by means of an AMvB. It has added value. I also think it is important, among other things, that the packaging of weed, by means of explicit texts, should also be covered with public health risks. This should therefore not be regulated by law, but by AMvB. How does the initiator view this? We have heard it before: can the initiator respond to the response of the VNG? Because no matter how you interpret it, the UNG gave a very clear statement of support for what the initiator is aiming for by her law. At the VNG it is said that it is a good thing that there is movement on this file. Municipalities are increasingly confronted with an unworkable situation with the current policy of tolerance. The VNG argues that the proposal meets the main challenges facing current policies, namely public health problems, the fight against organised crime and the tackling of nuisances and problems of public order. The VNG also states that a change in the system towards a regular closed coffee shop chain should go hand in hand with an intensification of the preventive approach and the approach to illegal cultivation and trade, as advocated by the initiator. However, the VNG states that such a closed system can only function if the government invests in that preventive approach to discourage use at the same time. I would also like to hear a response from the consultant, the Secretary of State for Health. How does he see this? The UNG also writes that the government must continue to invest heavily in tackling organised crime. The association notes, moreover, that the bill provides for a financial compensation for that national control of cultivation, but also states that such a structure is also necessary for the intensification of municipal supervision of coffeeshops, with the help of the police. Is the latter also provided for by the initiator? I'd like to hear a response to this. Finally, I would like to touch on the problem of medicinal cannabis. I saw a good amendment by Mrs Van Tongeren. How does the initiator look at the possible scope of her law for patients who are not currently dealing with the current medical variants and the problems they may have with their own cultivation? I still have to wish the initiator and her team every success in the defense. I hope to discuss this with her soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr. Chairman. It is, of course, appropriate to congratulate the initiator, for my part, on the parliamentary handiwork she has done in drawing up the legislative proposal that is now before us for discussion. I now also get an impression of the expertise that she has been able to use in preparing this work, for which I am grateful. Let me now turn to the substance of this proposal. No parent gets happy when son or daughter is stoned all day staring out on the couch. There is no neighbor who gets excited when down the street a hemp plantation turns up and gets rolled up. No council member, that is my conviction, is waiting for a flood of drug tourists who do not contribute anything to the image of the municipality. At the same time, I believe that no one in the Netherlands is closing their eyes to reality: neither that parent, nor that neighbour, nor that councilman. The use of soft drugs has taken a position in the Netherlands and can no longer be eliminated. It cannot be excluded that many older people have smoked a smoke, that the neighbor may have grown a pot plant on his windowsill and that that councilman, or perhaps even that MP, appears to be a member of a liberal party that thinks it is up to the individual to determine what is good for him or her, and not to the government. But certainly the company in this room and in the circle around it, like the active twitterers who regularly harass me with their views on cannabis policy, has not escaped the fact that the last party congress of the VVD discussed soft drugs policy and the way it should be handled. This has led to the text in our election programme, which states that the VVD considers it necessary to regulate soft drugs policy smarter. By doing so, I leave it clear in its..... is meant not only to regulate or regulate the purchase of cannabis, but also to the world around it. The VVD believes that attention should also be paid to the impact on the fight against organised crime, the prevention of public order issues and nuisances, the international dimension of changing soft drugs policy and public health impacts. I do not think that the present legislative proposal is sufficiently reassuring on all these points. The Council of State also states in so many words that I do not believe that the legislative proposal in question is convincing. I like to walk past the different aspects. First of all, I would like to mention organized crime and criminal cooperation. They play an important role in the world of pot growing. They offer independent producers and operators a wide market through their access to dealers abroad. In no way does D66 explain how the bill can contribute to the approach of these gangs. In fact, Mrs Bergkamp acknowledges that organised crime will continue to produce for the international market. Doesn't the initiator worry about this? Is there not also a chance that the proposal will make crime worse? Did she investigate this? I also put that question to the Minister for Security and Justice. As far as safety is concerned, according to the VVD, it is doubtful whether the bill adds anything to reducing the risks of hemp fires, water pollution, degradation and illegal tapping of electricity. I don't see this crop shrinking. On the contrary: because the coffee shops, I suppose, are only interested in good quality cannabis and so they demand all kinds of investments from the grower to guarantee quality, the street trade may increase considerably. After all, the cannabis can be bought much cheaper there. In the note following the report, which is the answer of the initiator of questions from the Chamber, in this case of the SGP, the initiator recognizes the same. She says: yes, it leads to additional burdens. I can only explain that it will therefore lead to an increase in prices, leading to street trade. For that street trade, the pot must also come from somewhere. And I am convinced that this will really be out of illegal cultivation, in the attics, for example, with all the risks of fires. How does the initiator view this risk? Does she not fear that the street trade will only increase by lowering the price on the street? Doesn't the risk of this kind of fires, illegal tapping of electricity and so on just increase? Has the initiator actually looked at this or is she just taking the risk? In short, isn't organized crime ultimately a bacon buyer with its proposal? I would also like a reflection of the Minister for Security and Justice on all these questions. Initiator says, again in the note on the report, that she believes it is plausible that this bill could reduce criminal cultivation. Such a loose assumption is totally insufficient to make such a far-reaching proposal. What studies have been carried out to support this plausibility? Are they going to be executed if they're not done? By who? Which aspects are taken into account? Then there's the cannabis harvest that wasn't deposited. Initiator says: yes, the grower can do nothing but wait until he can sell it to a tolerated coffee shop, or destroy it. Who controls that? How is that controlled? How much police capacity will be in it or other forms of enforcement? There is no longer any room for producers with a decision on tolerance, as says the initiator, to produce for other purposes, such as exports. How does this relate to the fact that producers can produce a surplus? If we are talking about police capacity, I expect it to remain at least the same under the line. Criminals will produce more for export. That leaves more room for that, because in part you have the "offended cultivation" or give it a name. Maybe the street trade's coming up. The police will focus on that. However, enforcement capacity will also be needed to monitor producers with a decision to tolerate them. Can the initiator respond to this? Then public order. There is a chance that Mrs Van Toorenburg has already made a clear point about this: if this law is adopted, the so-called resident criterion can no longer be maintained. This is a criterion that gives the possibility to prescribe that coffeeshops can only sell soft drugs to people from the Netherlands. It thus makes an important contribution to the fight against drug tourists and drug nuisances. This is now possible because the purchase of cannabis under Dutch law is illegal. European rules on free movement prohibit unequal treatment between Union citizens once procurement is legalised. What does the initiator propose now? It comes with a linguistic skill with a legal sauce: the proposal for regulated tolerance. I can only explain that it is equally the introduction of various articles of law that require that both the mayor and the health minister have a formal role to play in purchasing coffee shops. Sorry, but then you really have to be honest about that first. I think that is very sincere about carefully examining whether the resident criterion can also be maintained with the initiativer's proposal. I am certainly not convinced of that in advance. I would point out that the VNG has also ignored this risk in its report on the desirability of regulating it. All the more reason to say: please look into this carefully. I would therefore like to ask a few more questions on this point, at least in order to encourage the initiator in this area. On the basis of which...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr van Oosten, Mr van Nispen has a question on this point. He says you can finish your sentence. That's gonna be a long line!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u69	Yeah, it's gonna run for a while. I wanted to ask a number of questions to encourage initiators to do good research on this. I am referring to the criterion of residence and the fear that this could be dropped. On what basis does the initiator come to the view that the resident criterion does not have to disappear, even in the long term? What experts has she consulted? To what extent were they consistent in this view? What does the VNG think? I would also like to put to the Minister the question of the risk of the criterion being dropped. I can imagine that the Minister has every interest in having this investigated. Will he promise me this? Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u70	The spokesperson of the VVD sees a lot of bears on the way to this bill. That's fine. Good questions. They have to be asked. That is what this debate is for. But a lot of these objections, because they are the questions he is asking, for example, about organized crime and about house fires, do not really have so much to do with this bill, but with the current situation that, in my words, this cabinet has not always done so much about. But that is another debate; we will have it tomorrow. My question to the VVD spokesperson is the following. If he is in favour of smarter regulation, he is, because that is what Congress has instructed him to do. I hope he will also come forward with proposals for improvement on this proposal, which states what that smart regulation should look like in the VVD's opinion. Can I expect them in the further contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u71	Mr Van Nispen is interrupting me now in the middle of my speech. I am now passing Mrs Bergkamp's bill, because that is now before us for discussion. Mr Van Nispen has taken good note of the VVD's electoral programme. I understand, because I just recited it again. We want to regulate smarter, but you shouldn't just go there. You're gonna have to examine that carefully. Then you must have taken all the aspects into account at exactly all those points I'm talking about. You haven't done that in a few weeks, certainly not at the speed Mrs Bergkamp favours.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u72	That's interesting, because it's not that fast. Mrs Berndsen-Jansen has tabled it for a reason and this debate has been going on for a very long time, so it is not that fast. In fact, this answer doesn't surprise me so much. We have already been able to read in the newspaper, and what is in De Telegraaf is true; we all know that the VVD is not in favour of this proposal, because it is complicated to make the turn now during this period. Did I get that all wrong or not? Do arguments still matter, does this debate really matter or has the VVD already made its choice and is it opposed to this proposal simply because it wants to be against this proposal during this period?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u73	I indicated in the first or second paragraphs that Mrs Bergkamp's proposal does not reassure me. Mr Van Nispen can explain this if I am against it, that the VVD is against it. This does not mean that we have not included anything about it in our electoral programme; for that I refer again to my second or third paragraphs. That's what we did. That speaks of smarter regulation. I'm trying to take the Chamber and explain to you what conditions that minimum must comply with. I put that along the lines of the Bergkamp proposal and I do not recognise that in her proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u74	Mr Van Oosten started as positively with words like 'we can't think it away anymore','realism' and 'we have to do front and back doors'. The VVD Congress has also included smarter regulation in the election programme. Now Mr Van Oosten says: we must deal with crime, public order, public health and the criterion of residence. These are all subjects that are also included in the legislative proposal. The note following the report contains 72 pages of answers. My question is the same as Mr Van Nispen's: what does the VVD want?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u75	Mr Koolmees pointed out that matters such as crime, public order and so on were included. Yes, it is said that it is a major problem, but if the initiator comes up with a proposal to come up with a form of regulation, or give it a name: regulated tolerated, I can expect her to address and solve this problem exactly? I'm not coming up with a proposal. Mrs Bergkamp has come up with a proposal. When I read that nothing is done about it, just nothing, I'm allowed to criticize it, right? Then I cannot find the argument to be in favour of this proposal. It would be something!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u76	That wasn't my question either. My question is, what do you want? The proposal does include what the initiator wants with public order, what the role of the mayor and local authority is and how much money is released from the police and the judiciary to really tackle criminal organisations. So Mr Van Oosten does not do justice to Mrs Bergkamp's proposal, but she is perfectly capable of answering that about a few works herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u77	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u78	When I hear Mr Van Oosten like that, it is actually quite clear. He doesn't want to make the turn. Does he ignore the wish of the VVD Congress, but also the wish of fifteen VVD mayors, including those of Eindhoven, Utrecht and Zwolle, just to save the face of the VVD? I wonder how the VVD members feel now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u79	Mr Koolmees asks me a lot of questions. His interpretation of my explanation of what I see as a VVD member in the election program, I leave it to him. I read very firmly in it that the VVD stands for smarter regulation. You have to do that very responsibly. Then you have a lot of conditions to think about and do good research. I simply note that this proposal does not meet this requirement. Mr Koolmees may disagree with me; I am fine with it. In particular, I am very concerned about crime. In other words, they are recognized by Mrs Bergkamp: the possible thriving street trade, the possible increase in exports, you name it all. I just don't want that criminal to end up buying bacon. There's nothing wrong with that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u80	In those last words I would almost come up with some kind of English encouragement, because they sound so brilliant. Indeed, it's all terrible, but then my question is: isn't the VVD buying a little time to make a spin after the election? Actually, the VVD here is calling out very tough language. That's language to my heart, because I don't think it's gonna be him. But it can't be that the VVD is gonna go around after the election, just, all of a sudden, flap?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u81	Mrs. Van Toorenburg may think what she thinks. I can't determine that for her. Nor can I determine what she thinks of the statements I make. I'm doing my office work here. Let me say for a moment that I have congratulated a Member of Parliament who has managed to deal with this subject this evening. I'll respond to that. I am critical of this because I have studied the content and I do not think that this is the way we should regulate it smarter in the Netherlands. That's what I'm saying. What Mrs Van Toorenburg makes of it: whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u82	Mrs Van Toorenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u83	Whatever. Yeah, that's what I'm afraid of. I fear that today's VVD will speak fine words in the vein of the fact that a great deal has to be done before it is accepted. But when the elections are over, the VVD just flips over and will probably do exactly the same as Mrs Bergkamp does. Mr Van Oosten says: I do not like it, but she has done her job. It is a bit unsporting to speak about this as a VVD, and to take exactly the same poison pill after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u84	I am looking for the question, but I am also looking for what reproach Mrs Van Toorenburg wants to make me. Apparently, she can see into the future. I wish her luck with that business. I'm just doing my office work here. I'm judging a bill from the initiator. That's what I'm putting past the bar of my vision of smarter regulation. I note that it does not satisfy, in particular, the point of view that we apparently share with regard to crime and so on. Then you shouldn't want it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u85	Mrs Van Toorenburg, I actually wanted to give Mrs Van Tongeren the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Van Oosten asked me what I am blaming him for. Shall I put it very briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u87	It's not always like when your name is mentioned...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u88	He asked me what kind of accusation...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u89	If you can be very brief, I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u90	The accusation that I'm making him is that he buys himself time to make the turn later.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u91	I think I will give Mrs van Tongeren the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u92	I particularly taste a degree of anger with this colleague of the VVD. He raises his voice. What's that in? Is that because it's all going too fast? Just like list leader Zijlstra felt that the abolition of Black Piet was going too fast? We've only been debating it for 20 years. Is it because the VVD lost at the procedural meeting and we are really discussing this initiative legislative proposal here tonight? Or does he really have any objections in terms of content? If it is the latter, then the normal procedure is to write amendments and motions. Is the VVD gonna do that? Does Mr Van Oosten say that it is the right direction, that it is in line with the statement of my congress, that it is in line with my programme, but it needs to be improved further? Then I would very much like to work with the VVD, to close any gaps and further improve the law. I'm sure that's what the initiator wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u93	Mrs Van Tongeren makes a bit of a caricature of my contribution. I believe that there are very strong objections to this legislative proposal. I wrap them up nicely and I tell them all nicely. Mrs Van Tongeren can recognize anger in that; that is all on her account. But then she should not come up with the accusation that I would be angry for the sake of the Hague procedures or make it all up. No, I'm not. I'm doing my office work. I'm putting this past the bar of what I think is sensible in this country. I do not think it would be wise for us here, with a majority in Parliament, to adopt a legislative proposal that would only strengthen organised crime, increase the traffic in the streets and do nothing to prevent the export of weed. In other words, this bill does not take a step in this direction at all. Then you mustn't want this to happen. You'd have to do a lot more research, wouldn't you? That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mrs Van Tongeren, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u95	I've never seen research stop street trading or stop weed exports. It is true that it is three serious points that my colleague from the VVD has raised. Let us look at how we can improve things by means of amendments or by means of motions so that we can respond to those points. But more research isn't gonna stop any drug-criminal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u96	No, but Mrs Van Tongeren probably doesn't want to understand that. Don't you have to know what bill you're agreeing to? You have to know what you're gonna end up in, right? You have to know if this street business can get worse. Surely you need to see what steps are going to be taken effectively to combat these exports, in order to prevent the Netherlands from becoming known as a kind of narcostate abroad? You don't want that, do you? We are not going to take the risk of accepting the bill with some amendments here and there, are we? I would find that a very serious risk, a risk I'd rather not take. So I'm not gonna be a part of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'll try another way. The VVD is for smarter regulation. It's in her election program. All the subjects mentioned by Mr Van Oosten are also mentioned by the initiator. What could be concrete improvements to the bill that come close to smart regulation of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u98	I was just saying, if you're talking about smarter regulation, you have to include the whole playing field. Then it's about organized crime. Then it's about safety. Then it is about the possibility of maintaining the resident criterion. That's just some elements. I would like to say a few words about the impact on public health and the international dimension. I am not talking about the legal treaties. Those are all elements you need to take with you, which you need to weigh in to know what you're getting into. That has not happened or is not enough. So I cannot agree to this. Actually, that's very simple. And, Mr President, the same questions are always being asked to me, and that makes me repeat myself. I can't make it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u99	You're indeed repeating yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u100	That is because Mr Van Oosten cannot indicate what he wants. Some of my colleagues are asking questions. There is an initiative legislative proposal addressing all the issues raised by Mr van Oosten, namely public health, public order and security. Steps are all being taken to improve it. And the Minister of Justice, including the VVD, could do something about tackling crime. If Mr Van Oosten raises that point, then this Minister will be prepared to do so. I find it very disappointing that Mr Van Oosten has no concrete answer to his criticism. Then it comes to me as a bit of an argument for, indeed, postponing the decision until after the elections and then making the turn. I wouldn't think that was strong, especially if the VVD Congress had recently adopted a very nice motion to regulate this smarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr Koolmees is trying to focus the spotlight on me as a person, on the VVD, as if I were defending an initiative law here. No, I'm not. I respond to an initiative proposal by Mr Bergkamp. Can I make my comments on this and criticize it? There's nothing weird about that, is there? That's a normal procedure for a bill. That's exactly what I'm doing. I put it past the framework conditions and I am deeply concerned about almost ignoring, for example, organised crime, security and the possible loss of the resident criterion. I wouldn't do my job well if I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u102	I also mentioned in my speech this morning's article in the Volkskrant of the researcher of RAND, who says: do not idealize. It might be that, if you don't handle this properly, you'll be dealing with side effects, just to speak terminology familiar to me. I asked questions to Mrs Bergkamp. She has a reasonable star team behind her and she also has two advisors. She's gonna answer your questions and mine. Suppose that response would respond to the concerns of your group about meeting the conditions necessary to achieve, as you call it, the tolerated regulation. Does that leave room for your group? The great thing about this initiative proposal is that the response, the explanation given by the initiator, offers opportunities to remove your concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u103	Mrs Volp now says: what if Mrs Bergkamp gives good answers to your questions? Firstly, Mrs Volp does not know at all what questions I have left. At the start of the discussion of this bill, I heard that we can expect a response from Mrs Bergkamp in the week of 14 February. I would say: first listen to what I have to say in my contribution. That seems very sensible to me. I also indicate what I consider to be a prerequisite for smart regulation. I am allowed now, and I am doing nothing but that work, to respond to what Mrs Bergkamp is doing as an initiative. But at least it doesn't meet those conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u104	I would very much like to listen to the continuation of your speech. However, I would once again like to ask what is needed for your group. Soon the answers to the questions you are going to ask will come. You state clearly that you are setting out the conditions. We can differ on that. Does the VVD Group still see room, if your doubts are properly addressed and if a good answer is given to the problems you have outlined, to see if we can proceed with this? Again, this is not new. We've been talking about this for years. Research research on research is not going to shed new light on what we don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u105	Finally, Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u106	That is all the more reason not to accept a proposal if we do not reduce organised crime. Why should I agree with a proposal in which the initiator says in so many words: well, it does nothing about these organized gangs. Then what's the incentive for me to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr Van Nispen, do you have another question? I feel like we're running out of time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u108	Mr Van Oosten just said: I am doing my job here as a Member of Parliament. But the problem is, he doesn't. He won't. If he were to do his job here as a Member of Parliament, if he had a problem with the way organized crime is being fought, he would instruct his Minister of Justice to do better. He'd have done it last week, he'd do it tomorrow, or he'd do it tonight. When it comes to dealing with house fires, he can see if the Minister of the Interior has sufficient opportunities to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u109	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u110	It is too easy to take a proposal that is a step in the right direction, not to say what you do want, and at the same time to use the tasks that belong to the government as an argument not to want this proposal. I'm disappointed with him, and I'd like a reaction to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u111	That was another huge introduction to a search for a question. At least that's how I experience it as a listener. Let me say this about it. I note that the house fires will not be reduced by Mrs Bergkamp's proposal, and I would have liked to have seen them taken away. In fact, I can just imagine that they're increasing. Of course, we have to fight it and tackle it. But the key to this is not in adopting this proposal. I'm just drawing the conclusion that the house fires will get worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u112	Mr Van Nispen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u113	I'll tell you the same thing: politics isn't just saying what you don't want. Politics is also what you want to say. That is what we can expect from the VVD, especially on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u114	I note that the same questions have now been asked from all sides. Mr van Oosten, I suggest that we proceed with your input. You have about ten minutes left to convince your colleagues of your intention, and then we will look at what questions remain. You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u115	Thank you, Mr President, for your encouraging words. I now turn to the international component. I am not blind; I also see that in various places in the world a changing view can be observed about the ban on the cultivation and sale of soft drugs. I also note that the proposal remains at odds with various international and European treaties and agreements. The bill does not go along with this, as if these treaties do not exist. To be honest, I find it disappointing to note that a party such as D66, which has the international legal order so high, seems to be of interest only if it fits its own path. Apart from that, I think the next question is much more important. To what extent do the Netherlands and the Netherlands compare themselves well with other countries? The Trimbos Institute announced in 2015 that Dutch cannabis with an average of 15% THC is often much stronger than foreign variants. How does the initiator view this and how healthy is it? With that, I take the bridge to the subject of public health. For example, the Council of State points to the growth that can be observed in the number of cannabis users seeking help in addiction care. What is the risk that this group will continue to grow as a result of Mrs Bergkamp's proposal? Does the initiator think that it should be accepted that there are certain health risks? If so, why doesn't she just say so in so many words? As a result, I would like to ask the following questions. In replying to questions from the CDA, among others, the initiator states that her proposal would enable a better policy of discouragement to be pursued by the public authorities. Can Mrs Bergkamp explain that further? What am I supposed to think about? Does the Commission also intend to include in its reply how the ban on the marketing of tobacco, supported by its group, will be developed for coffeeshops? Cigarettes are now hidden in drawers in the supermarket, to counter any temptation for potential users. Does her group support similar actions in line with expectations when it comes to the temptations of cannabis? What does D66 want? Hiding the coffee shops behind shutters? Or does D66 consider that, although smoking should be discouraged, this does not apply to soft drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u116	I am pleased that Mr Van Oosten mentions the initiative of Christian Union and Labour Party for the displayban. We took this initiative because cigarettes are in the supermarket. And I still don't think minors are getting into a coffee shop. So I think it's all right if they do it under the counter there, and I'm also very much in favour of good prevention and information, but that's not a good comparison, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u117	To be honest, I ask myself the same question. When I walk with my son in an average big city, in my own city, I also walk past a coffee shop. That looks a bit like a coffee shop. I'm not saying I want a coffee shop behind shutters, but no one can understand that it's not a coffee shop. When it comes to a policy of discouragement and so on, I wonder how Mrs Bergkamp actually sees it. Are we gonna hide that the same way, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u118	I understand that last point. That's what I'm looking forward to. I even heard Mr Koolmees, from Mrs Bergkamp's party, explain the conditions for advertising and how it is displayed. Indeed, I can imagine that there will be no advertisements in the newspapers. But I find the comparison with the displayban for cigarettes for kids in the supermarket... I really understand that Mr Van Oosten is not going to argue for cannabis in the supermarket, but let us not make that comparison and let us keep it a little clean. Mr van Oosten's concern about what this means for advertising and how it is displayed in the windows: fine. But that's different from a displayban.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u119	Again, I'm looking for the question. I have already put my question to Mrs Bergkamp. I'm curious to hear her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u120	I suggest that you do not answer if you have not heard a question. You will resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u121	There are indications that the use of soft drugs in some users can lead to undesirable psychological side effects: disorders, anxiety attacks, paranoia, an increased risk of developing chronic psychosis and addiction. Can it be determined to what extent this legislative proposal reduces or increases these risks? Exactly how big are these risks at the moment? Can the U.S. Secretary of State speak about this? Can an understanding be given of the social and social damage that this legislative proposal brings with it? Then I come to a number of more general questions. In its proposal, the VWS Minister issues a so-called "tolerance decision" for the cultivation of the maximum quantity of hemp that would be necessary for the operation of a coffee shop. The Minister will be informed by the mayor, who must make an assessment of the amount of cannabis needed. Apart from the question of whether the task of the mayor should be taken into account as to what the desired trading stock of a coffee shop is, the question is who is actually responsible for supervising the destruction of the superior that is being grown. To what extent may may may may may may may may may, when determining the trading stock, also take into account the decline of tourists? Is this not at odds with the initiativer's assertion that the resident criterion is not compromised by the proposal? I would also like to hear from the Secretary of State of VWS how he looks at the role created by Mrs Bergkamp for the Minister in relation to the purchasing policy of the coffee shops. Then there is another aspect: the history of the Police Registers Act, such as the fact that a person has been a suspect of a criminal offence. Does this play a part in the decision-making process or in the applicant's acceptance? I'm rounding up. For the sake of clarity, the VVD is not an opponent of coffeeshops; there are and they remain. There is a need to combat the nuisances and nuisances of the environment. In my view, the present legislative proposal does not contribute sufficiently to this. Exports are not being dealt with. The street trade is going to flourish potentially. Housing fires, degradation and illegal power drains remain unabated or even threaten to worsen. And no misunderstanding: the VVD also wants to get rid of this strange situation by allowing sales to be tolerated and purchasing to be illegal. However, the VVD refuses to undermine a number of other conditions. You can't surrender to organized crime. We want the new policy to be able to fight crime even harder. We do not want and accept that our border regions are flooded with drug tourism. We do not want a larger group of young people to run serious health risks. This requires much more research into the consequences of regulation and the development of scenarios. I am sorry, but I think this proposal is a little too easy, it wants to be a little too fast and it ignores the significant risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u122	Do I hear Mr van Oosten say today that after the elections the VVD is going to have a major investigation carried out in order to actually regulate drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u123	What's in our election program is no secret. The VVD stands for smart regulation. I have just explained in my contribution the minimum conditions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u124	So it is true that we will eventually wait for the elections and the VVD to really come up with the regulation of drugs. Because every time the image was still like it wouldn't be. With a lot of questions the VVD really masks today that this is a fine proposal that actually came a little too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u125	Our election program isn't classified. It's public. Anyone can read it. The VVD is not as naive at the same time as the CDA apparently is. The CDA says: you know what, we pretend it doesn't exist and abolish the whole thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u126	Maybe I missed it for a while. What research shows that the health risks for young people would increase if you adopted this bill or did something in the context of perpetuating the tolerance policy? Can Mr Van Oosten back that up?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u127	For example, the significant risks are mentioned in the opinion of the Council of State. I referred to that. That is what Mr Van Nispen can read back. For the rest, it's me who wants more research. This research takes much more time than the treatment allowed by Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u128	I asked on the basis of which Mr Van Oosten expects this bill to contribute to the increase in health risks, including among young people. He just said that, but I'm still not getting a clear answer to my questions about that. Can he explain why this proposal, which is being tolerated from the back door, is going to lead to an increase in health risks among young people? I don't understand yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u129	If Mr Van Nispen means his question that way, I would be happy to explain it again. As a result of the fact that cannabis in the coffee shops is becoming much more expensive, I just put that economic law down here..................................................................................................................................................... And there's no control over that. So who knows what effects this has. I think you should know that before you agree to a law. There's no investigation into that right now. I'll put that question down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u130	I have already found that we are repeating ourselves. Mr Koolmees, you really must have a different perspective and ask another question. Otherwise we will just close the debate now. Then you can try to get other answers in second term with other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u131	I'm particularly curious about these investigations. Mr Van Oosten says that fires are increasing and that it is bad for public health. It's all much worse than it is now. Then he'll ask for more research. In particular, I wonder what research Mr Van Oosten is based on. Why does he think all this is increasing because of this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u132	I just explained that. Mrs Bergkamp herself states that there will be additional burdens on the tolerated cultivation. This leads to higher prices for cannabis in coffee shops. That could just lead to the street trade flourishing. Nothing is being done to prevent exports. Exports are not going to come from the cultivation that Mrs Bergkamp wants to tolerate in the way she proposes. No, that export is being pulled from somewhere, which is from the attics in the streets, perhaps near you and me. And listen to me: I want to do something about that. And this bill doesn't contribute anything to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u133	Mr Koolmees, I appreciate your perseverance, but this really must be another question. 'Cause we're gonna be repeating the whole night or half the night.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u134	That is because Mr Van Oosten is not answering my question. I'll take one example.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u135	Try it differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u136	Yeah, I'm gonna try something different. The price of cannabis goes up because of this bill. On what does Mr van Oost base this statement? As an economist, you can also argue that you don't have all kinds of costs if you're going to grow legally. These are the costs of security and transport and the illegal costs you have to incur in order to run all kinds of drug runners. It could just get a lot cheaper. So what is the basis on which Mr Van Oosten's assumption, which is at the heart of his argument to be against this bill, is based? On assumptions or yet on research or yet...?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u137	Again. I refer to a remark made by Mrs Bergkamp herself. Perhaps Mr Koolmees is going to hit the nail on the head, because it is important that we know this. We need to know what's going on. We don't know. Because apparently we already have a disagreement about it. Well, we are the Parliament here. We are dealing here with the adoption of a bill, a bill that can potentially be very far-reaching, including in the area of street trafficking. Perhaps Mr Koolmees does not want to see this, but I am not closing my eyes to that. Then it is my responsibility to ask if we have that in our sights. Do we know where we're coming from? If we don't know where we come from, maybe we just shouldn't. That's all I'm putting down.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u138	This brings us to the end of the Court's first term contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-8.u139	The debate will continue during the week of 14 February.
