ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I call Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. In four weeks' time, we will have elections that many people in the country are looking forward to. Many questions about hacking and securing all kinds of information systems have already been asked by several parties in this Chamber. The CDA does not understand that the Minister has not responded adequately to the primary electoral process. He has not succeeded in keeping his finger on the wrist in this regard. It is a shame for the Netherlands, which is profiling itself as an IT country, that the electoral process only uses add-on software and a memory stick because one is unable to secure the process properly. We never want this to happen again, especially a few weeks before the elections. We have a motion to ensure that this does not happen again in the future. The Minister has sent us a letter on how the current electoral process will be secured on 15 March. We can live with that, but with a view to the future, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the integrity of the electoral process is under discussion due to the fraud sensitivity of the voting counting software and the calculation of the election result;]] [[Whereas the security of the hardware and software used in the electoral process should be ensured in a structural manner;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Election Board and the municipalities, to continuously ensure adequate security of hardware and software used in the electoral process and to inform the Court thereof annually in the budget;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-26643-446]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u3	Mr. Chairman. In a democracy, casting your voice is the most fundamental and the most practical thing you can do. Because every vote counts, it is of the utmost importance that the result is precise and that people have confidence in the voting process. The last few weeks have had doubts about this. Last week we discussed this with the Minister. In the meantime, we have received a letter addressing a number of concerns. In the opinion of the VVD Group, this has been done in an appropriate way. There's only one question left for us. Allow me, Mr President, to make it a bit technical. The tools that are allowed imply that computers are being used. It has been said that several people must be present at the same time and that those computers should not be connected to the Internet to prevent hacking. The Minister himself said last week that if you continue for a very long time, it is possible that such a computer has been connected to the Internet and that you still have a problem. The minister probably knows computers a lot more than I do. Now that he has brought that up himself, I would like to hear from him how that will be dealt with in this case. In his letter, the Minister mentioned a detailed consultation with the VNG, the NVVB and the Election Council on the progress of this process. I assume that these organisations will also be involved in the evaluation of these elections. I would also like the evaluation to reflect on the cooperation, relationship and functions of these three organisations in the way in which a solution has now been chosen. Finally. I have the feeling that this is the last time that I will be debating a subject close to my heart with this minister in this House. The first time I spoke at all in this Chamber was on 9 December 2010 with a minister's predecessor on the review of the 2010 elections. I find it very striking to speak with this Minister on this subject last time. I would like to express my thanks from this place for the good cooperation and look forward to a good and precise result.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I also realize that this is the last time I have spoken to Mr Taverne in this Chamber on this subject. There has been no member who has been so closely involved in the voting process in recent years and who is monitoring it precisely: how can you automate it and what conditions apply to it? I have greatly appreciated the constant attention he has given to this subject. I am very pleased that yesterday, together with the municipalities, the Election Council and the Dutch Association for Civil Affairs, we found that a sensible solution has been chosen for the way in which the addition process will be organised in the upcoming elections. We will also be able to meet the deadlines, which you, Madam President, have emphasized, in order to have sufficient time for the credentials and for the timely installation of the newly elected Chamber. We have also agreed that the Ministry of the Interior is in the process of considering possible means still needed to support the municipalities and the main polling offices in carrying out what has been agreed. Crucial in the way the process has now been set up, which we discussed extensively in the AO, is that in the previous elections after manual counting in the polling office, the information would then be transmitted electronically with a USB stick from the municipality to the 20 main polling stations and from there again with a USB stick to the central voting office in Amsterdam. Then you can at least theoretically not completely rule out that there is a contamination somewhere in that process that then spreads over the rest of the addition. You might not be 100% sure that the result is actually the result. Again, I'm not saying that's likely at all, but you don't want that shadow of doubt hanging above it. There was also broad support in the Chamber for the choice not to do so. That's different now. In the city hall and also in the 20 main polling stations, electronic tools may be used when adding up what comes in on paper records, but they must be separate from the Internet. Mr Taverne asks whether you can not get a picture of all kinds of theoretical horror scenarios. That is why I found it crucial to agree with the municipalities and the Election Council that both what the calculator enters and what the calculator delivers on paper is recorded in a report and that these minutes are made available to the municipal halls for public inspection. If there is any doubt, one can verify oneself that an addition has not been made in the wrong way. With these preconditions, the paper is completely guiding in this process and we have organised it in a sensible way. So I say this in reply to Mr Taverne's question. I would also like to say that, in the evaluation with the parties mentioned, we will look carefully at whether it should be dealt with in this way next time. The motion by Mr Amhaouch, on item No. 446, I wouldn't recommend it. Firstly, because Mr Amhaouch notes in the recital that software is susceptible to fraud. To be honest, I've never gone this far. What I also said just now is that I want every last shadow of doubt about whether the software is susceptible to fraud. There's another Fox-IT investigation into that question. So I would not like to take that as a stand now. So the reason for my actions is not that I believe that the software is susceptible to fraud. I just want to take away any residual risk that people could leave doubt over it. Moreover, the operative part is that the government, in consultation with the Election Council and the municipalities, should ensure the security of a fair electoral process. However, that is the law. We would then repeat by way of motion the entire right of existence of the Election Council and of the law in this matter. It is, of course, a constant concern of the government and the Election Council. We would then make a distinction between those parts of the law that are ratified by motion and those parts that are not ratified by motion. I don't think that's desirable. I would therefore advise against making any specific reference to this in a motion. Once again, the law applies here and everyone does what they have to do on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u5	That is the problem: it is not true what the Minister says. Not everyone does what they have to do. We've had so many elections, we've had so many evaluations. We have a law, but apparently that's not enough. That's why I'm filing this motion. The Minister is well aware of the spirit of the motion. He can put salt on all the snails, but the spirit of the motion is that we come back every year on how the security of the primary electoral process is organized. Whether it really is fraud, or is susceptible to fraud, it is indeed about the appearance of doubt that has arisen about it, because we were not there in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr Amhaouch reaffirms what I have just said, saying that it is apparently not enough. I disagree with what has been said that it is not enough. I only note that the combination of international circumstances, the press attention that has been given to it and also the concerns expressed by the Chamber is the best way to exclude any appearance of doubt. That is why I will allow the paper process to be leading, even when transporting the information from the city halls to the main polling stations. But I would not like to take up the conclusion that what it was like was apparently not enough. Especially after Mr Amhaouch's explanatory statement, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-16-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. We have come to the end of this VAO. We will vote next week on the motion tabled.
