ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the presentation of the budgets for the year 2018. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President, when I was standing here a year ago, at least I thought that would be my last time to present the budget as Minister of Finance on Prince's Day. After all, Princess Day 2017 would be for my successor. But he's not here yet. Yet I have already brought a successor that will be 30 years from now!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you to the members of the Chamber, in particular, for welcoming him to this house. I'd like you to meet Haci Nuh. Haci was chosen by Mayor Aboutaleb this spring; he is a young Rotterdammer, you understood. During the annual Week of Money, he was declared mini-Minister of Finance, because he has good ideas about money. And today Haci has in his backpack a spare copy of the Millions note; I like to spread my risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	But above all, ladies and gentlemen, Haci reminds us that the Millions Note is not just about now and next year, but above all about the future, the future of the new generations. When you're dealing with income and spending of the country, you have to look at the children of today and what their later life looks like. Like the last four years, I'm going to tell you what's going on with our economy, with the revenue and expenditure of the government and with the contents of our treasury. I will do my best to explain it so that Haci and his peers can follow it too. I start with our economy, just say everything we earn in the Netherlands in a year with our products and services. That economy is growing fast. We spend more money in shops, we sell more products abroad and we also spend more on big new things like cars and houses, but also office buildings and machines. When this government started at the end of 2012, it was very different. At that time people were extra economical because of the crisis and mainly delayed large purchases. Shops and other companies got fewer customers and therefore there was less work. Unemployment increased and the economy became smaller. Fortunately, things are moving in the right direction. About the money we make and the money we spend, people pay taxes. Now that we're earning and spending more, there's also more tax money coming in. Another advantage of economic growth is, of course, the creation of jobs. This is good for people who are looking for work but also good for the government's treasury, because if more people have their own income, less benefits are needed and that saves the government money again. That's why we're currently spending less money than we're getting in. Next year, it's going to be over 6 billion. That's good news for the debt, too. Maybe I should explain. The Netherlands, like almost all other countries, has a government debt. That is because over the years we have borrowed money to set up and protect our country, for example with roads, dikes, schools and hospitals. It's okay that the government has a debt, as long as it doesn't get too big. When the economy collapsed, government debt increased rapidly. Now that the economy is moving in the right direction, we're also bringing down our debt. This makes the Netherlands stronger, especially if at some point the economic weather is less good. As Minister of Finance, I am monitoring whether too much money is being spent and whether it is being spent properly, because I do not want the public debt to increase unnecessarily. In anticipation of a new cabinet you may change less than you would like, but we consider some expenditure so important that we have spent extra money on it. You can do that now. For example, we are paying 270 million extra to primary school teachers. The cabinet also spends 435 million to provide care and attention to older people in nursing homes. People with little income will get something from the treasury next year, so they will also notice that next year will be a bit better in the Netherlands. That's $425 million. Finally, we use nearly 100 million to use additional people to better protect the Netherlands, for example against terrorists. As Minister of Finance, I am not only paying attention to what is needed now and next year, and what this means, but also in the long term, the long term, because budgeting is what you do for the future. Most of our expenses come back every year. That's what we call structural expenditure. They can also increase over time. For example, older people need more care. The good news is, of course, that older people are living longer and longer, but as a result, care costs continue to rise. So you have to take that into account. To put that in perspective, we calculate what will happen in the future, with all the government's spending and revenue. We call that the sustainability balance, a word that is currently going around a lot in The Hague. That balance was negative for a long time. This means that we would be short of money in the longer term and therefore the government debt would rise again. That's changed. Since this cabinet started working in 2012, the tide has turned. The shelf life balance is now positive. That is also because the government has changed big regulations. For example, people now work longer and only get pension later. But also people who have bought a house get less tax discount. Few people liked it when the government proposed it, but it was necessary to make public finances healthy, especially now and for later. What does that mean in practice? This means that all the things we pay out of the government pot, such as hospitals, schools, libraries, the police, dikes, remain affordable. That also means that Haci, if he is really Minister of Finance later on, does not have to raise taxes and do not have to cut taxes, which would make his peers pay for our choices. In short, you, the adult of this moment, should not only think of himself, but take into account the children of today who have a life ahead of them, because once again: you do burying for the future. Mr President, although nothing is certain in this world, I really assume that this will be the last time. That is why I would like to conclude by thanking the Chamber for the broad cooperation we have experienced as cabinet and I as Minister of Finance in recent years. In 2012, there were few people at the start who thought we would last so long, extra long, and even fewer people who thought we would achieve everything we had planned. Those who understand today's figures see that we are much better together. I would like to express the hope here that the next government too is looking for broad cooperation and always keeping all the children of the country on the retina. Let Haci be the compass, which also keeps my successor's finances in balance for now, but especially for later. With great pleasure, Mr President, for the fifth time, I am offering you the Millions' Note and the corresponding budget items.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	I thank the Minister and the Mini-Minister of Finance, Haci Nuh, for offering the budgets for the year 2018. The Chamber has previously decided to combine the General Political Reviews with the debate on the Government Declaration. This means that we do not have a General Political Review this week, but we do have a debate on various subjects on the agenda. I thank everyone and close the meeting.
