ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal on leaving unchanged the mandatory own risk for healthcare insurance for the year 2018 (34792). I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport. We have a list of ten speakers. At least that's what it says on the list. I'll give you that if you don't speak, you can't interrupt. Then that's clear, too. I give the floor to Mr Arno Rutte on behalf of the VVD as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, in a separate discussion, we actually discussed the urgent legislative proposal before us in detail. Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party indicated that he still needed to have a full discussion here today. He specifically indicated that he wanted to ensure that the parties that are now forming would really look very closely at the amendments before us. We have all had our group meetings. I am also speaking today on behalf of the groups of CDA, D66 and Christian Union, perhaps even a unique one. We have also had a comparison with each other as to what we think of the amendments. There is an amendment to the effect that the link between the level of the own risk and the premium should be permanently removed and that the risk should therefore be frozen. Given the urgency of this legislation, we choose not to opt for it now. There is also an amendment to not opt for a premium increase as a way of financing this, but to opt for a tax increase. That is actually a fundamental change in the system. Even if it is a small amount, it can ultimately lead to state aid, as the Minister said yesterday. We will not support that amendment either. Finally, there is an amendment to the effect that it is not to freeze its own risk but to reduce it. This is understandable from the point of view of the author of the amendment, but we also believe that this is a very fundamental and far-reaching measure. We cannot do that in this urgent procedure. That wouldn't be careful. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr Rutte quickly passed through the three amendments. While he says it's been looked at seriously, it's gonna be a "no" three times when I hear it like that. My question concerns the first amendment he has dealt with, which concerns the automatic coupling. You say: we do not like it. But that means, in fact, that you are now admitting once and for all that action is now being taken, not reducing your own risk, but freezing it, and that nothing will happen in the coming period because you are maintaining that link. So that's what you're saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u4	No. On what is or is not going to happen in the coming period, we are making agreements in a government agreement, which I really hope will be completed soon, so that we can have a fundamental discussion on this. If structural measures are included, we will discuss them well prepared in an orderly debate. When it comes to the years to come, we really have time to do it in time rather than in an urgent procedure. We'll be able to wiggle it and weigh it and look at all the consequences of that. That is why we are now saying: not structural, but at least next year. As far as we're concerned, you'll soon know what's next. We will discuss this in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u5	I am surprised at that, because there is an amendment before us today and there is also a law before us today. That treatment must indeed be done with steam and boiling water, but we discussed it extensively last night that you cannot possibly charge us with this. We have talked about this very often over the last few weeks and months, and we have often called for this to be done earlier. You were the ones who said you didn't have to. We are now dealing with a serious law and a very serious amendment. The amendment says: let go of the link. Because the proposal that the forming parties are making now does not turn out as positive for the people as it seems. It means that it will continue to rise in the coming years. So, what is it, Mr. Rutte? Do you really want to take care of something? Because the word "basic" fell yesterday: "We are going to improve it fundamentally for the people." Or has this been a nice party for the stage to save your face and you're actually saying: yes, we're going to continue with the increase over the next few years?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u6	I certainly do not blame Mrs Marijnissen for the fact that we have now entered an urgent procedure. Unfortunately, that has certain consequences, namely that we are standing here with each other. Moreover, I think that if we had wanted to deal with this matter two weeks ago, we would also have entered into a very urgent procedure which might not have allowed structural steps to be taken for next year. We're making a decision today about what we're gonna do next year. That doesn't have to mean we don't do anything after that. But we're really gonna have to wait for the coalition agreement. That may feel unsatisfactory, but we will have all the time and opportunity to discuss it with each other, including what will or will not be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u7	We have had extensive discussions on this in recent weeks. Today I actually missed one argument from the VVD, which has been widely used in recent times: the aspect of costs. The argument of costs has been used very often in recent times to scare people, because if their own risk remains the same or falls, then premiums must be raised. Today, however, it became known that health insurance company DSW reduces the premium and its own risk. Hasn't it been politically frightened by the VVD to blow so high over the cost of recent times?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u8	Special speech by Mr Kuzu. See, the fact that there are insurers who are also able to determine their premium and their own risk independently and freely, is something that the VVD is very happy with at least. DSW now announces a premium that is even lower, with a lower own risk. I can't wait to see what other insurers are gonna do. But with that choice of DSW, we can only be happy with each other. That's just different from what the projections are from the ministry of what's to be expected. On the basis of these forecasts, we will come to premium and own risk. I can't make them prettier than they are right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u9	Of course, everyone in the country is happy that the premium and the risk at least fall at DSW, but I am concerned about the point of political terror. Because the VVD used the argument that costs would increase. That does say something about the models. I would therefore like to ask Mr Rutte what this says about the models used at VWS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u10	That is a very different debate. We've had a debate on that, too. Last year, VWS had seen the premium a little too low. Back then, people were all angry around here. Maybe the premium's a little overrated by now. That has yet to be proved, because all the other insurers will also have to make their premiums public. Apparently, that's not good either. We're gonna see. Let's just wait and see. I think VWS uses models to forecast the cost of care at least in trend. It must also provide a prospect for this in the budget. That's how the models work. If there's any luck, it's always great. For the time being, we really have to take the forecasts in the budget as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u11	It is in itself remarkable that the VVD here also speaks on behalf of ChristianUnion, CDA and D66 about its own risk. I must say that I am also sometimes represented by GroenLinks, but whether the voters feel equally well represented by Mr Rutte in relation to their own risk is on them. But that aside, Mr. Chairman. Why doesn't there be a whole deal on the own risk for the next cabinet period? Why is it only about indexing for next year, in such a messed-up way with an emergency law? This part of the coalition agreement could have been negotiated by now, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u12	On the first point that Mr Nijboer has touched: the parties have all taken up their own positions. Today is the final part of the debate. I choose to take very seriously the amendment that Mr Nijboer has supported, among other things. That's what he asked for. I think it's important, too. I call this on behalf of all parties, also because we need something of speed. Mr Nijboer knows that too. For the rest, I would also very much like a structural solution. If it were up to me, the negotiations would have been concluded yesterday. But it's kind of tricky, and it's all connected. Finally, we will come to a conclusion, no doubt including the structural measures requested by Mr Nijboer. I would have preferred them today more than two weeks from now, but it's no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u13	But the fact that the own risk had to be dealt with before 1 October was well known, wasn't it? In fact, the minister said it's gonna be a bit of a mess if we have to do it by October 1st, but if you really want it, we can do it. We're in the mess now. We have had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this before the summer and have had a debate on it. If the VVD did not want to leave this whole fundamental discussion about its own risk, could you at least not have used indexation during the cabinet period? I thought you said you could've done just fine. Now you make people happy with a dead sparrow, don't you? Only next year the own risk will not be increased. Then it just goes up again. That's not proper legislation, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u14	We're in an emergency procedure. "Ordinarily" means that we are doing what we can do properly at the moment in a way that is well practicable, within the frameworks that exist and with not too great steps. That doesn't mean anything about what we're gonna do next. It's gonna get out, but it's just gonna take a while. I understand Mr Nijboer's inconvenience. I can feel it, too. But it's no different now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u15	The four forming parties decided at the last minute to do something about their own risk. They want to keep it even. Let us assume that this decision comes from the concerns that also live with GroenLinks, namely that one in five Dutch people cannot pay the care costs now and avoids care, care, because of these costs. It now appears that the proposal means that the premium will increase by €10. So for a lot of people, the cost of care doesn't go down. Now there is a proposal, an amendment, to compensate for that increase in the premium, indeed by means of a state contribution. The income from taxes is partly provided by companies. We also have a progressive tax system, in which rich people contribute more. If we regulate and compensate through taxes, then the bill will be much less for those who are currently struggling with the cost of care. My question to Mr Rutte is: if we are to intervene now in our own risk, why does he not choose to prevent the costs from ending up with those people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u16	This is, in itself, a relevant issue on which we can debate it extensively. I am not doing that now, because we also discussed it extensively yesterday. I'd like to leave it at the most important reason why we can't go along with this anyway. We should not introduce such a fundamental change in the way we finance our care in an emergency law. That's sloppy. That's not well-founded. In fact, yesterday the Minister even indicated that you could even get into the world of state aid if you went down that road. That seems very small, but that's big. This emergency law simply does not lend itself to that. Then we should have had more time, more than two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mrs Ellemeet, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u18	Then I have to say that I am very sorry that the forming parties have given rise to the situation that we now have to deal with this law as a matter of urgency. This is not without prejudice to our responsibility to prevent people from struggling with the cost of care. We can make a difference now. We can now adopt an amendment to prevent the premium from increasing further and to prevent one in five Dutch people from paying for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u19	That was actually a statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u20	I believe that we also have a responsibility for proper legislation. This is a law made with steam and boiling water. Many compliments, by the way, to the officials who fought for each other in such a short period of time. It is really not a question of making such fundamental changes in the financing of care. If that's what you want, you're gonna have to have a long-term discussion about it and really take your time. Then you really need to look at the consequences well-founded. You couldn't have done that in three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mrs. Marijnissen, you've just been here. I'm not gonna have another round. You nod, but that's really not the point. Then what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u22	I have a question for CDA and Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u23	They're not participating in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u24	Mr Rutte says that he also speaks on behalf of CDA and Christian Union, so I will just address my question to him. The difference is that Mr Rutte takes up the amendments. One of the amendments is that of €100. Mr Rutte does not have that in his election programme and CDA and Christian Union do. Now today's topicality is that there is a health insurance company that is going to freeze its own risk. My question to CDA and Christian Union is how they feel about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u25	But they are not participating in this debate. Mr Rutte speaks for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u26	I hope I'm allowed to ask that question. If they do not want to answer, then not, but I would like to invite them to do so, because I am curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u27	It's possible. I have just said that it is nice that we in this country have several insurers who have the freedom to determine their own premium and their own risk, especially if it is low once. It is not what Mrs Marijnissen wants, because it is an abomination for an independent company to simply give a low premium and a low own risk, but perhaps it will achieve what it likes. I think we should all be a little happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u28	I hear Mr. Rutte saying that he thinks that everything should be done in an orderly manner. But he doesn't really mean that this process with steam and boiling water has been an orderly process?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u29	No, Mrs Sazias is right about that. The forming parties did not come to a decision until very late. That is why we are now in this urgent procedure. It just doesn't deserve the beauty prize. Mrs Sazias is right about that. It does bother us, and that's why I'm trying to finish this in a proper way. That's important, because we shouldn't end up with a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u30	As far as we are concerned, a proper way is also a complete way, because I do not think that this measure will help us at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u31	I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u33	Mr. Chairman. It is very exceptional that emergency legislation is being dealt with by both chambers, especially if it is done in one or two days. The last time this happened was in 1914 and then it was about something. Mrs Keijzer said yesterday that it was only one law, but it was ten laws, including the extension of service and everything related to it. This requires Parliament to look very closely, despite the very short time, at the legislation, even if it goes through the informant to the minister according to a not so common process. It's tricky in a missionary period. But we do make legislation here, all of us. The opposition, with 74 seats, has made 3 amendments over the weekend. The law wasn't there at the time, but we could of course have read what the law was about to exist. Those amendments all had to be amended about four times because they did not comply technically because we did not get the law until 1 p.m. We have therefore tabled three serious amendments to the proposals of the outgoing cabinet. Those weren't crazy proposals, because the emergency legislative procedure, of course, doesn't actually contain anything. I called it a drawer with dimes yesterday, and that's what it is. A planned increase is not going to happen, so the own risk simply remains the same, and a premium increase of €10 is on the other hand. That is the response of the forming parties to the solidarity of being healthy with sick, and we should be pleased with that. Well, in itself, the PvdA is against increasing its own risk, but it can be difficult for you to be happy with this. When you see the real concerns of people who are chronically ill and cannot afford their own risk, this is not a serious answer. It is not surprising that if the opposition in this Chamber were to submit to me again and again for the summer time, yesterday I mentioned the dates for motions which state that this really must be done, that this is going on before 1 October and that good legislation is needed for this, we would insist on a proper law. We have tried to propose it on three points, three points of substance. One is funding. So don't raise the bounty, but do it from the state's contribution. The failure in the care framework also gives room for this. Two is something people really notice: €100 reduction of their own risk. Furthermore, it was best to discuss, especially with regard to the PvdA, in terms of deadlines or to take a first step if this €100 was too big a step for forming parties. I made contact this morning to see if it might be possible, but to reduce it, not to keep it right. What good is that gonna do people? The third is not to settle it for one year. What the hell is that for, like, a year? And then tell the people that next year it will rise again and that it will eventually go to €480 at the end of the cabinet period. You wouldn't submit a law like that, would you, especially if you put in so much urgency? Mr. Chairman. Mr Rutte has just spoken on behalf of all four forming parties for the substantive examination of our amendments. I have seen many debates in the Chamber and many amendments and motions, but as short and powerful as they have been swept off the table, I have rarely experienced. While these are serious proposals for a law of forming parties. According to Mr Rutte, he does not deserve the beauty prize. This means that it really doesn't look like anything, because they didn't get out in time. Then so with people who also... They're not crazy suggestions. I listened very carefully to the debate yesterday. I would like to touch on these three points, Mr President. I have heard the Minister say that she does not think that indexing is a principle for one year, but structuralally she thinks it is a principle. That's really a line she doesn't want to cross. Would it not be possible to do it during the cabinet period? Why only give that assurance for one year and not for the next four years? I heard Mrs Dijkstra admit that yesterday in the debate. And a reduction in one's own risk, I say in the direction of Mrs Dik-Faber's Christian Union. She said: we are now taking a first step. But why not the law that deals with that? It is a separate legal procedure; we are now discussing it in the third term. Why not arrange for that to happen? Or at least made sure it was right and orderly. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group will not vote against a law out of will. We are simply in favour, at least of not increasing one's own risk. So neither will we. We have, however, expressed great criticism, and we still have great criticism of the process, of the attitude and attitude towards the opposition. Could have organized an orderly law-making process, that could have been real. One could have seen this coming from miles away. Formateur Tjeenk Willink said for a reason: you need a broad majority in the States General if you want to rule this country with 76 seats. There are serious proposals and they have actually been rejected without real substantive arguments. I really called yesterday to discuss this in the political groups and to come closer to us. I made another call this morning because we might have to adapt a little bit to the amendments. That's usually the way it is. You may not immediately submit the good, maybe the term should be shorter, the amount lower, but that is all unspeakable. This is not a recipe for making it to the finish line with 76 seats. But the most important thing is the content. It doesn't make any sense. What are people doing with this? No increase of €15; a premium increase of €10 and that's it. Surely that is not an answer to the real concerns of people who are chronically ill, who cannot pay their doctor's bills? So I would like to conclude by expressing the hope that such a debate will matter and that the formation of the parties to one of the three amendments, perhaps even amended, may still want to make a move towards the opposition to at least make that law a little better than it is today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as the SP is concerned, this is at least a false start for a cabinet in the making. We have talked extensively about the problems that people experience around their own risk. We've been talking about care avoidance, people who simply because they can't pay the bill anymore leave their drugs at the pharmacy. We've been talking about people who keep walking on with cases that the GP thinks they should start treatment. We have always argued that in our system it is the general practitioner who decides whether or not further care is necessary. We have faith in this general practitioner and we want this trust not to be undermined. We believe that this is how our own risk does. Then there's the political part. In this Chamber, after the elections from the beginning, we used every moment to plead for the abolition of the fine on being sick. That's what the SP wants anyway. But we have also tried to be constructive. We have said at one point: if the abolition is not immediate, let us look at the common denominator that we have here in the vast majority, namely two thirds. That's the $100 cut. At least that is a first step towards abolishing: 98 seats have that in their electoral programme. And it was also an important election theme. So it wasn't just a sentence in election programs. No, there's been a lot of talk about it. This was really an item in the elections that people decided to vote on. Today we're standing here. With steam and boiling water, the forming parties finally came up with an adaptation of the law. It surprises us, also in the political sense, because it has always been said: no longer, Mrs Marijnissen, we are negotiating and you are not going to force us to do something on one item, because we are negotiating in full; then you should join us at the formation table. That was the story until the summer and just after the summer, but suddenly not anymore. Now suddenly that deadline came into view and the pressure appeared to be so great that the forming parties also felt obliged, despite the fact that there is not yet a complete integral coalition agreement there we are still eagerly waiting to highlight one item, namely its own risk. In fact, the prognosis of the increase was reversed. So we don't go up to €400 but we freeze at €385. At the same time, the premium also increases, because after the relatively good news that it is not going to rise but stays the same, eventually came the monkey out of the sleeve, namely that the premium should rise. I think we have used the debate extensively to make it clear that this is not the SP's choice. Mr Nijboer spoke about it in detail. We have tabled amendments to this law, which, with steam and boiling water through this Chamber and through the Upper Chamber on the other side, will have to make that law better. It is very disappointing that there is a negative response from the forming parties. But we think, above all, that the people who voted in March and who are now looking at this debate are wondering what this is really about. It has been presented in such a way that there is a fundamental fact that word fell yesterday again, and major things are also going to happen for the people. What are we talking about? In fact, nothing happens to one's own risk. It's not going up, but it's not going down. That decline was just the commitment of the elections to many parties. At the same time, the premium will rise. Now for today's topicality. The first health insurance provider of the list has as a statement: I take away a ten from one's own risk, because one's own risk has nothing to do with solidarity. We still need to see what the rest of them are gonna bring us. All in all, it's going to be a painful story. We have entered the election campaign with two parties who are now sitting at the formation table and who said that they would at least want to cut the risk at their own risk, at least with €100. As an opposition, we have shown ourselves on our common side by working together, but also on our constructive side by looking at what can be done. By not having to insist on what we want, but also understanding that it may not be possible, but what is possible. The fact that all this is being swept away makes us, as SP, really think that this is a false start for a cabinet in the making. We have, of course, also adjusted and weighed what we are going to do with the law. In the end, of course, we also want to prevent the further crossing at all. In this sense, we will support it, but it is not only disappointing but also very sad and, above all, very sad for those who are chronically ill. They are often old and have to deal with rising care costs and their own contributions that are constantly piling up and they have now been watching elections in which all kinds of parties promised to address their own risks. These people are coming home from a cold carnival now, because next year they're just paying €385.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u37	Mr President, after days of mosquito-sifting, we received fantastic news today, because what on the right with the Bible in hand, consisting of CDA, D66, ChristianUnion and VVD, does not succeed for the viewer who does not know that, namely, honouring the electoral promise of the political Pharisees CDA and ChristianUnion and reducing their own risk and health insurance premium next year, a health insurance provider will succeed today. Healthcare insurer DSW reduces the premium and the mandatory own risk by €10. So not higher, not equal, but lower, and with that DSW puts right with the Bible and the minister of VWS just in their shirt. DSW shows that everything they say to keep their own risk from falling is just excuses. For years, months, weeks, this minister has been harassing us with threats that the cost of care will be so incredibly high if we do nothing. The own risk would be necessary and premium increases would be inevitable. But now we have a health insurance company and health insurance companies really have no interest in dropping the premium and the own risk that says: the Minister's figures, they are not right at all. Those calculations from the forming parties, they don't add up at all. Rutte's talk, don't fall for that. Its own risk doesn't have to rise, its own risk can be reduced. The premium doesn't have to go up, the premium can go down. The question then is what this says about the models. Are they still up to date, are they accurate and should we not now look at them very carefully when a health insurance company says that nothing is right at all? Or are the costs of care deliberately higher in order to burden people with far too high a risk of their own and are people afraid of just swallowing right-wing rotten measures? Mr. President, I don't know. I really don't know. What I do know is that the bill is no good. It is not good because it is dealt with in a political quickie and is flimsy in content. Because it was only when the pressure got too high after Princess Day and it needed a request from the Chamber that a proposal was made. That is really very ugly policy when we say that this can be done in an urgent procedure, but that the opposition's proposals are suddenly no longer possible because we have to take the time to do so. Mr President, the bill is not good either because it doesn't change anything essential for people who have problems with paying care. And in that sense, it's a wash nose. But the worst thing about this bill is that it is not a good thing. I keep saying it is that people have to pay €10 to maintain something terrible, namely their own risk. It's just that DENK isn't part of it. DENK stands for the elimination of its own risk. DENK therefore votes against the legislative proposal, but for all the amendments and for the motion tabled by the opposition. Finally, a point on the preparation of future coalition parties. The future coalition of CDA, VVD, D66 and ChristenUnion must be careful. Half of this Parliament's concerns were swept away by these parties in a bureaucratic manner yesterday. And the concerns of half the voters are arrogantly ignored. But remember, this future coalition has only one seat majority in the Chamber. And if there is a moment when the opposition is needed to get something through it, I can say on behalf of DENK that DENK will sell its skin very expensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u39	Madam President. Before the elections, as a SGP in our election programme and our financial picture, we have committed ourselves to reducing our own risk by €100. We had deliberately chosen to do so because we also know that it was in fact an emergency measure in 2012 under the so-called Kunduz agreement to raise its own risk significantly. That was in the context of the austerity that was necessary at the time. When there's a little more space, it's important to see if you can turn it back. That was our philosophy, also given the risks of care avoidance and so on. Mr. Chairman. We have a special treatment today because, in fact, we are dealing with an emergency law at a rather difficult stage of treatment, namely that on the one hand we have a budget from a outgoing cabinet and, on the other hand, we do not yet know the financial plans in the pipeline. So that is a very difficult stage to assess, for example, amendments on their merits. That is why we choose to check plans in this intermediate phase against our own financial picture, which has also been passed on by the Central Planning Bureau and which is based on €100 lower own risk. As far as we are concerned, this has been financed, not simply by a budget deficit or a reduction in the surplus in this case, but also by targets, basic agreements and adjustments to the pharmaceutical reimbursement system; you can see all this in the Choices in Map. That is our benchmark on which we will assess the legislative proposal and the amendments. If we do so, we will say yes to the bill, because it will at least help to prevent an increase. So that's why the bill will get our support. We also see amendments that go further along the path we have in our election programme and our financial picture, namely a reduction of €100. We will therefore also support those plans, with the remark that the coverage that is part of the explanatory memorandum but not part of the legislative text here as such is not, as far as we are concerned, the desired coverage. So if the amendment were to be adopted, we would also feel co-responsibility in the budgetary procedure, if we know the plans of the new cabinet, to see if that coverage has been properly designed. Since, as has been admitted, this law does not deserve the beauty prize, this also means that you cannot put very high standards of beauty on amendments and that you must also assess them in this way. This brings us to the choice of both the legislative proposal and the amendments insofar as they are consistent with our electoral programme and our financial picture. Unfortunately, for one person, I have to temper the joy, and that is for Mr Nijboer. His amendment, which seeks to make structural decoupling possible, goes beyond what is being discussed under an emergency law, because that amendment is not about regulating something before 2018 but about definitively adjusting the system in relation to the release of the linking of the level of own risk and the cost of care. We understand that reasoning and we also understand that this is now emerging as an inconvenience because of what we see, but we believe that this goes too far in the context of this emergency law, aimed at 2018. We will be happy to discuss it with him at a later date. Mr President, this is our contribution. I do not have any further questions to the Minister, who is primarily responsible for an explanation of vote, but with a little more time than is normally available for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u40	Yeah, I noticed that. Thank you very much, Mr Van der Staaij. I now turn to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna be brief. 50PLUS is very disappointed by the attitude of the forming parties. For example, the fact that they do not support the amendment on decoupling, which reduces the risk of owning but increases the premium, shows that all this is a sham. 50PLUS will vote in favour of the law, even if the difference is minimal, but you can be sure that next year, hopefully just as united with the entire opposition, we will do everything we can to find structural measures to further reduce the burden of care for citizens. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you. I now turn to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It seems that we are in a bit of a gap in the Netherlands. On the one hand we see that one in five Dutch people is unable to pay the doctor's bill. These people struggle with the cost of care and go to the pharmacy with pain in their belly because they can't actually pay for the medicine. We can see that on the one hand. On the other hand, that's what we've seen with Princess' Day, and we see that we're a country with a massive budget surplus, with billions on the shelf, with a lot of money, taxpayers' money we've raised, which the government doesn't spend. That does lead us to think, because that public money, that tax money, is intended for basic services. Now I ask you: is the care not a basic provision? Don't we think everyone should be able to pay for their care? Do we not find it a disgrace and are we not ashamed that so many people in the Netherlands cannot pay for that care? I would like to ask you: is it not a matter of preventing this bill from increasing the premium for so many people, and for so many people it does not matter at all that a political trick is being pulled out of this? Because our own risk is frozen, not reduced as far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are abolishing our own risk, but the premium is still increasing. I very much wonder why, now that we can, we do not choose to increase this premium further. We can do that here now. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we will go further and in the coming years we will also work to eliminate our own risk. I would like to appeal, in particular, to the CDA and the Christian Union, which I would think they do not want to see, because of an increase in contributions, people with lower incomes have even more difficulty paying for care. This is the time to stop that premium from increasing. There's a proposal for it. I would like to appeal to you to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thank you. I shall now go to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ten years ago, I was here too, during the debate on replacing the no-claim at one's own risk. Then we voted against. In the meantime, in the last ten years, that has not changed: we are still at our own risk. Something else has changed. At that time there was no mention of that debate in media reporting. They were three rows thick in front of the NH Hotel because they all wanted to know first whether or not Rita Verdonk would leave the VVD. In the meantime, the own risk is very high in reporting in the media. That makes sense. Of course, this is mainly due to the fact that 800,000 Dutch people who pay their health care contributions are now in a payment scheme at their own risk. As a result, a quarter of people do not care or delay care, while they do need it. You can't let that situation exist. For that, I expect matters from the coalition. It pisses me off at the CDA, which shuts us out, even though it could have honored his election promise with us. Mr. Chairman. Although we have a missionary cabinet, we do have a missionary chamber. There's no coalition. The VVD can speak on behalf of four parties, but there is no coalition. There's a missionary room where no one's attached to anything. I didn't see a government statement. There's no coalition agreement. Everyone here is unattached and free to vote as he has been elected to this Chamber with an election programme. I therefore hope that everyone will do so. Mr. Chairman. We will vote in favour of the legislative amendment, despite the fact that we consider the proposal to be a huge farce. We just don't want to get blamed for not voting in favour of not raising our own risk by €15.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u46	I shall now give the floor to Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. The Democracy Forum believes that the real causes of the problems identified in healthcare are systematically ignored. They even seem to have been declared almost taboo in The Hague. It's the ridiculous care bureaucracy that drives the cost. There is the source of rising costs and the source of the current deadlock. The party cartel has rigged a half-private, half-public healthcare system that combines the worst of two worlds. It's a private system with forced shopping. It's a government-created oligopoly. The only people who really benefit from this system are the top drivers of the health insurance companies, who receive bonuses from hardworking Dutch people who are obliged to be with them. No wonder members of the party cartel, VVD'ers first, stand in line for fun jobs with the health insurance companies. You don't have to have any sense of care, take a nice bonus, and if you're short of money, just raise the premiums. The customers can't leave. What needs to be done now is to reduce bureaucracy among health insurers. This can be achieved through clear targets and sanctions in case of non-compliance. The health insurance companies half the bureaucracy within two years and otherwise the drivers can look for another job. The measure now before us is merely a symptom control measure. Nevertheless, FvD will support this proposal because we want to reduce its own risk. That objective can now be achieved at least in the short term. FvD also supports the Ellemeet c.s. amendment, which seeks to counter the rise in the healthcare premium with a one-off additional state contribution. However, FvD sees this as an emergency solution, which now needs to be set up quickly in order to prevent the bill of this clumsy from reaching the population. This is, of course, actually a pocket pocket construction, which is actually a reward for malpractice among health insurers. But once again, a structural solution has so far been lacking. That is why we are now tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the cost of care has increased considerably in recent years and, in particular, as a result of the increased bureaucracy in the care sector;]] [[Whereas a reduction in own risk is a widely accepted wish in this Chamber and can be financed by addressing bureaucracy in the care sector;]] [[Whereas the present legislative proposal is part of an urgent procedure and it has not been possible to carry out a thorough revision of the law;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with an integral proposal before 1 January 2018 to reduce bureaucracy in care with a concrete system of targets and sanctions for health insurers and health insurance managers if they fail to meet these objectives, so that their own risk can be reduced to a maximum of €200 per year, while premiums will not increase further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34792-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u48	Mr. Chairman. I do not have much to add to yesterday's debate, but I would like to put a few facts together so that we do not have a little fact-free discussion here. The combination of our system would be the bad of both worlds. In terms of cost, we are tenth on the European list of curative care. That's the midget. When you look at the way our quality is measured, we find that very high. I'd say go to work and see what's going on in health care. You'll be amazed. The payment system of its own risk consists of distributed payments. We can do the same with the electricity bill, for example. That's not something you say "I can't afford it," but maybe it's just very wise not to get an account at once, but to pay it all year round. The number of defaulters in 2014 was 326.000. That was 2.4%. In July 2017, the number of defaulters was 261.000. In recent years, therefore, there has been a 20% reduction in the number of defaulters. It's a real achievement! Then there's the care allowance. The single person with a minimum income pays if we follow the estimates of Princess Day €407. If we followed the signals from DSW, they would pay even less, but let's keep it at €407. In 2005, so 12 years ago, that was €544. This means that a minimum of €140 will pay less. In addition to the automatic increase, €67 has been added to the healthcare allowance for single people. In short, I think we have a very social care system that delivers good performance. For years, contributions were lower than estimates. Unfortunately, that was not the case last year. I've been very interested in that, too, I can tell you. And I was really sorry about that, too. If the premiums are lower, it just means that we have lower costs. That really is a lower bill for the citizen. This year it's just waiting again. DSW's signals are good. DSW talks about a slight decrease in the premium. I hope so, of course, but the big insurance companies still have to come. Do we have some kind of machinery at VWS that's running a little politically? A wage and price adjustment is a CPB estimate. I really am not cheering when they come up with: oh, wages and prices are going to rise. Then I don't say: yeah, the cost of care increases. No, of course not, but we just have to follow that. We cannot say that we in VWS think of it a little lower. That's not how it works. We just have to follow that. If that means that it is lower because insurers estimate it lower, I am of course very happy with that. We have to wait and see, but I would like to say to Mr Kuzu that there really is no political window. It is striking that I was accused of political windows last year. Then we were just too high. Now maybe we're too low and I'm accused of it again. Eventually it comes out in the middle, we'll think. Mr President, yesterday I gave an opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u49	And Mr Baudet's final motion? Do you have any?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u50	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u51	It's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u52	But I already suspect it's about the future and so it's for a new cabinet. I'll read it exactly. It says "to present an integral proposal for bureaucracy before 1 January." Mr President, we are standing here with an emergency bill. Also with regard to amendments, if you do an emergency bill for a cabinet coming up, it's really about things for 2018 that you have to settle before 1 October. With everything else, the cabinet is about to come into its own. The same goes for this motion, which I advise against. It's part of the system. A next minister will discuss with your Chamber how we proceed with this. Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u53	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-09-26-tweedekamer-6.u54	We're going to vote in 15 minutes. There is a need for a 15-minute suspension, so I shall suspend the sitting until 4.10 p.m.
