ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u1	I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma of D66 for his questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. A major humanitarian tragedy has been taking place in Syria for six years. What began with peaceful protests in March 2011 resulted in massive bloodshed. Nothing or no one is safe from the fearless terror of Assad and Putin. Every target seems legitimate to them: auxiliary convoys, hospitals, schools and even buses with which people would be evacuated. We all know the terrible images of this war, but still today there was another terrible low point. Dozens of innocent civilians were killed by a poison gas attack carried out by fighter jets. On Twitter, footage of the victims of this cowardly attack circulates. I advise everyone not to look at that footage, because it's terrible to see. You think it can't get any more cynical. But it's possible. An hour ago, Syria bombed the hospital where the victims of this cowardly attack were treated. I am not standing here today to question or criticise the Minister. I'm standing here because I suspect the Minister and I will agree. I suspect that the whole Chamber might agree that these attacks should be condemned by us. It's not the first time Al-Assad and his allies have crossed this red line. In recent years, chlorine gas has been used several times, and this has been confirmed several times by independent research carried out by the OPCW and the UN. The question is, of course, who is responsible for the war crimes that have taken place today; crimes that defy any imagination. Were they Syrian fighters or Russian? I would like to ask the Minister if he is willing to commit himself to an independent investigation by the UN to find out exactly what happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u3	Make the president a mess. I would like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma for his questions, which are perfectly justified. We have been horrified by reports of the re-use of poisonous gases in the bombings in the Idlib province of Syria. There is no independent confirmation yet, but it fits in with a pattern of accusations, especially of the Assad regime supported by Russia and other allies. If the message is correct, and that is what I am assuming at the moment, although I do not have an independent confirmation, it is yet another violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention and of UN Security Council Resolution 2118. Let there be no mistake about the fact that there is once again a war crime in this horrible conflict. I've seen the footage. I wouldn't recommend that to anyone. It's a great horror. It is also a situation in which, as you know, unfortunately, the international community, of which we are part, has failed. At the moment, the Dutch-supported White Helmets offer first aid. The White Helmets are incredibly brave people. Some of you spoke to them when we invited them to the Netherlands. Recently, we have only been active in the field of Syria. I am not going to go into the results because they are far too small. At least we're working on the evidence bank. These kinds of crimes that should actually be stopped or stopped and not implicitly approved because of the use of a veto by Russia and perhaps also China. We must have proof of this on paper before the people who are guilty of it are in court. This has been progressed at the moment. We also discussed this yesterday at the Foreign Affairs Council. As you know, the Netherlands took the initiative. The conviction is very sharp. I will contact the OPCW this afternoon to ensure that this is investigated immediately. As you know, there's the joint investigation mechanism. The main problem was that the previous reporting on responsibilities was vetted by the UN Security Council. This means that we are now in contact with the High Representative again to see who is responsible. From the first messages I get, I understand that this is indeed the Assad regime. This means that this attack can be added to the list of crimes against humanity committed by the Syrian regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u4	I thank the Minister for his answers. I would also like to thank him for asking the OPCW to investigate this incident as well. Of course, we cannot anticipate that. I also understand that the Minister does not do so, because he does not have an independent confirmation at the moment. However, the Minister has seen the footage. Anyone who has seen the images can hardly escape the impression that something has happened there, which is at least a violation of the Chemical Weapons Convention. If that is what happened, then it must be made clear who did it. The minister says the first indications seem to indicate Assad. However, I do not think it is certain that Russia did not; let me put it this way. They would have been Russian or Syrian fighter jets. In general terms, therefore, I think it is very important that the evidence bank is there. At the same time, this is one of the biggest challenges, but something the Minister is working on. However, in a more general sense, I also think it is important that we get justice for these crimes. The people who did this must not escape justice. They shouldn't avoid their day in court. In this respect, I am also very sorry to hear that the United States already seems to be practically exonerating Assad from this kind of persecution. I am glad that the European Union does not. I do have a question for the Minister. This week is also a conference on Syria organised by the European Union. On the one hand, we see that this violence continues; that Syria is not guided by what moves Europe and the conference. On the other hand, we are talking about humanitarian funds and reconstruction. I would like to ask the Minister one thing: will he stop us from writing cheques for the political plans of Assad, Erdogan and his own? We should not simply sign for reconstruction, when the political solution is one with which we may not be able to live and which has no justice in it. That is my final question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u5	I would like to add something to the information I have just given to the Chamber. Firstly, at the request of France, the UN Security Council is likely to meet in the afternoon or evening in response to this attack. Secondly, Mr Sjoerdsma is quite right when he talks about ending the impunity of what is happening here. That is far too little, but I would like to point out that yesterday afternoon the European Union expanded the sanctioning list with four high-ranking soldiers involved in the use of chemical weapons in Syria, especially at the hearing of the Netherlands. Those are also resources we have. Thirdly, we are going to the Syria conference tomorrow. As far as I am concerned, it actually stands in the light of (1) diplomatic efforts, of pressure on the parties to condemn what has happened today. In Syria's future, there can be no room for Assad. That is a clear Dutch positioning. So we are not going to pull the money to build Syria's infrastructure in one way or another. We are sticking to what we are doing now, namely humanitarian aid and elements of stabilisation in certain areas. But, of course, we are not going to anticipate that. Moreover, I think it is important that the opposition should also be involved in conditionality. She too must have control over what is happening in the future of the country. This cannot depend on Syria's government.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u6	Thank you. Thank you too, Mr Sjoerdsma. I call Mr Ten Broeke.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u7	Since the end of 2013, the government of Obama has left a self-chosen red line, unfortunately, with regard to the use of chemical weapons by the Assad regime and nobody in this Chamber was willing to indicate in advance that that red line had to be maintained, we have seen that the threshold for the use of chemical weapons has been lowered. Since then, reports have come from northern Iraq and Syria, not once, but frequently, about the re-use of chemical weapons. That is very regrettable. Through the Security Council, we are not solving this at the moment. An investigation would be nice, but it won't be possible at the moment. That is why my question to the Minister is as follows. The French also made a proposal by Mr Fabius at the end of 2013 on the non-automatic declaration of the right of veto. That should be through some sort of code of conduct.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u8	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u9	The Netherlands has committed itself to this. How's that going? At the beginning of next year, Dutch membership of the Security Council will begin. Is it a priority on the Dutch agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u10	We are gradually seeing that the international rules of the game, which we hoped existed, are shifting. The protection of the civilian population is very difficult at international level. The focus on international conflicts is very minimal. The bombing of hospitals, which is a crime against humanity, we now even see as an instrument of warfare. It is therefore essential that the UN Security Council, the European Union and the other parties work to ensure that this is not the last but the first step in negotiations. That is what the limitation of the right of veto fits in with. The right of veto has now been used by Russia and sometimes also by China, which means that we are not getting anywhere with the condemnation of this kind of thing. That is why the Netherlands is making this a key issue during its own membership of the United Nations Security Council next year. I have prepared this together with Italy and is working with France and Italy on a relativization of the right of veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u11	Does the Minister, apart from a moral assessment of everything and what is happening in the world, have a vision of where we should go with Syria? One can say 'this is bad and that is bad', but where does the Minister see Syria in five years' time and in ten years' time? Does the Minister actually have a view on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u12	Yeah, sure, but the most important thing is the view of the Syrians themselves. That is complicated at the moment, because the country is being torn apart by regional powers and local sectarian movements, which are more and more armed, as you know. Only a political solution can provide a solution. It is also in the European and Dutch interests that this solution should be found. Just think about migratory flows and stuff. That political solution is important because there can be no stability and effective counter-terrorism as long as Sunnis, Shiites and Alevites do not get a position in Syria. That's not impossible. There are discussions in Geneva now. There's a little room with the Russians, too. This can only be achieved through a more punitive and stronger role of Europe, through a political solution and through much more regionally effective diplomacy than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u13	This will be your second question, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u14	I mean, here's what I'm talking about. Does the Minister see a Syria with or without Assad? If it is a Syria without Assad, what kind of leader should come forward? Does the Minister have any idea? And if it is a Syria with Assad, how could the political order be restored there? Can the Minister say whether he has any idea about this rather than just sitting on that moral outrage?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u15	Firstly, I would not like to say that I am alone in the moral indignation. I've taken note of this morning's reports on the use of chemical weapons. This is not only something on which we are morally outraged; that is also something on the international security policy and the safety of the Netherlands. The use of chemical weapons is rightly taboo. If that is the case, then that means something politically. That is why I spoke about the Security Council and the role of the European Union. There is indeed relative powerlessness, but at the same time we could make a stronger fist together in Europe. I think it is important to say, also in the direction of Mr Baudet, that you cannot do that alone as the Netherlands. You will have to decide your politics together in Europe in order to make a dent in a pack of butter; otherwise we will only be looking at it. Secondly, everyone, both internationally and in Syria itself, except for a number of groups directly related to the regime, agrees that the future with Assad means at least instability. After 250,000 deaths, he can no longer build legitimacy and in no way achieve a stable Syria. The way that happens is quite different. That will be the subject of political consultation and the Syrians themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-04-04-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you.
