ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u1	Mr. Chairman. 65% of the victims of serious road traffic offences are dissatisfied with the fact that, as a rule, those responsible for accidents are given community service and not jail time, while prison time is more proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. This is demonstrated by a study commissioned by the Victim's Aid Fund by the University of Tilburg. Where previously there was a prison sentence for one in five convictions, it is now the case for only one in twenty convictions. Let me be clear: this is not about the relationship, but rather about the fact that it does not address the feelings of victims and relatives of serious traffic offences. Everyone can still remember the situation in the Court of Roermond, where a next of kin threw a seat at the judge while reading the verdict. Such misunderstanding and grief must be avoided as far as possible. Cause is a number of judgments of the Supreme Court since 2013, in which the concept of "recklessness" has been interpreted very strictly. According to the Supreme Court, recklessness occurs only when the perpetrator has deliberately taken unacceptable risks with serious consequences: serious physical injury or the death of one or more road users. The fact is that the so-called lower judges are also in their stomachs with these judgments. A press release by the Council for yesterday's case law states: "This leads to the discussion within the judiciary of whether the Supreme Court is too strict here. However, judges cannot change this, that is up to the Supreme Court or the legislator." The Victim's Aid Fund is calling for a legislative amendment which is more appropriate to the seriousness of the facts, namely a hazard clause. And before the Minister says it: we now have such an article, namely Article 5, but that is about other situations. So I only have one question for the Minister. Is he willing to amend the law as proposed by the Victim Aid Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr. Chairman. Let me answer Mrs Helder's question in a very simple way. In front of us is the research of the Victim's Aid Fund, which I am very pleased with. I would also like to express my appreciation for that research. If from this and from the WODC investigation that is currently under way, it appears that there is a problem with the criminalisation of serious traffic offences, the victims already think so; that is clear, and we are now also looking at the facts and the interpretation of the Supreme Court on this point is perceived to be too clumsy, also by the Council of Justice, I am, of course, prepared to consider whether a legislative amendment is possible. Then there's an obvious change in the law. I can say a lot of things about it, but I think this is the answer Mrs Helder was looking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u3	The simplest answer would have been: yes. Anyway, it looks a lot like it. If I have heard the Minister correctly, he says: the investigation of the WODC is ongoing. What is the time limit within which we can see the result? That's very important. It is not only those who have responded in the research of the University of Tilburg, but we have read it today in the Stelling van de Dag. With the theorem "Punish traffic accident with fatal outcome more severely," 89% of the participants agree. So I would have preferred to have just heard a full-bodied and non-flossed "yes." Anyway, this is a good second. When is the result of the WODC's investigation into the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u4	As I have shared with the Chamber, the intention is to send the outcome of the WODC's research to the Chamber with a policy response this spring. At the end of this research, I will organise an expert meeting to discuss the results of both studies, including those of the Victim's Aid Fund. It also involves the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. I shall, moreover, be speaking to the Victims' Aid Fund later this week, I believe, even tomorrow, to discuss its findings and experience on this issue too. Finally, I would like to point out that we have already taken action in this area, because the Victims' Fund did not allow compensation to be paid to people who had been victims of a very serious traffic offence where the legal explanation is "death by fault," but it feels like murder or manslaughter. At that time, with the Court, we ensured that the survivors of such victims are also entitled to compensation. In this respect too, therefore, we have already made progress on what we are now establishing. But if a change of law is needed to do justice to the interests of victims, that change of law will come as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u5	That's a good answer. I heard the Minister say in the first term that he wants to see if there is a need for a legislative change following the investigation of the WODC. It would be worth a sweet thing to me if the minister just said there would be a change of law. Anyway, he's going to talk to the Victim's Aid Fund after the arrival of the WODC's report and the justice system. Another question to the Minister is whether there is also an explicit reference to be made on behalf of or by the Supreme Court. I understand from yesterday's article that the Victim's Aid Fund has invited all kinds of organisations, including the Supreme Court, and that the Supreme Court has just failed to do so. And that while the Supreme Court rulings actually cause the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u6	In any case, I can confirm that I would like to invite the Supreme Court to the expert meeting, as well as the Council for Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office. I would also like to include the view of the Supreme Court, in so far as it is not already addressed in the WODC's investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u7	It is good to hear that the Minister is making a commitment to make this bill possible. I think everyone recognizes the feeling that you're the next of kin to the victim's life, while the unsub's about laughing out of court. I have also mentioned this example. I think it is important that this is not just about recklessness. That is why I am looking forward to the Minister's reply. The VVD has already called for this to be incorporated into the law. We also see in the policy of the Public Prosecutor and the judiciary that the requirements laid down are much lower than those laid down in the Code of Criminal Law. Is the Minister prepared to engage with both the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary in order to do more justice to the sense of justice? Because these are people who knowingly and knowingly put others at risk and get away with community service.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is right that Mrs Visser should make this point. This is automatically dealt with because the WODC investigation really sees the penalty measurement in serious traffic offences. It looks at both the criminal procedure and the imposition of penalties and the circumstances that have been taken into account. It also examines whether there are practical or legal bottlenecks in the elimination of serious traffic offences. I believe that the WODC's research fully meets the need that Mrs Visser rightly puts on the table as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u9	It is, of course, terrible that perpetrators of serious traffic offences get away with community service while they have caused a great deal of suffering. The same applies to sex offenders. Despite the ban of the House of Representatives, they also get away with community service. If I put that in the perspective of the Minister's election campaign, with the big words'more punishment and less understanding of criminals', then I would like to know what the Minister has achieved in this area. More punishment and less understanding of criminals? We're seeing the opposite.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u10	I do not agree with Mr Bontes' thinking. The Council for Justice has also already responded to the debate on the imposition of public service penalties in the case of sexual crimes. The Council has indicated that there are very different circumstances involved. I myself asked the WODC last year for an investigation into a public service ban in this area. That is the review of the law that entered into force in 2012. We have recently discussed this with each other in a general discussion. This study is also expected to be completed well before the summer. Then we will see whether Mr Bontes' concerns, which are certainly shared by many people as a result of the reports, are justified. Then we'll see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u11	Your second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u12	The election promise "more punishment and less understanding for criminals" I write down in the list of broken election promises. I'm sorry, but there's nothing else I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u13	That is up to Mr Bontes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-01-24-tweedekamer-2.u14	Thank you. Let us now turn to Mr Marcouch's question on behalf of the PvdA Group.
