ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u1	In 2016, the House of Representatives held three plenary debates on submitted citizens' initiatives. Today, the House of Representatives is conducting the first citizens' initiative debate of 2017. I would like to welcome Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema as representatives of the initiators. I would also like to welcome the Minister of Finance. There is, of course, also a word of welcome to the people in the public gallery and to those who follow this debate in a different way. Mr Baudet will present the citizens' initiative from the point of view of the Chair. I therefore ask the guardian of the Chamber to accompany Mr Baudet to the chair. Mr Baudet, before I give you the floor, I note that it is the agreement that you should not interrupt during your speech. No comments should be made either. I don't know if you'd like that, but those are the arrangements in this house. Some rulers are sometimes jealous of that. After your input, the Chamber will discuss your citizens' initiative with the Minister of Finance. You have five minutes for your explanations. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Today, I stand before you to ask for a parliamentary inquiry into the strange and astonishing course of events that preceded the introduction of the euro. Giving up our robust guilder and the advent of this failing single currency has been one of the biggest political kamikaze actions in Dutch history. An economic, financial and democratic disaster. And the longer we go through with it, the bigger the damage gets. Every working Dutchman already guarantees €20,000 for debts from the southern euro countries. The ECB shall keep interest rates artificially low. As a result, our pension pots lose billions a year, tens of billions, interest income. Moreover, the guilder was sold at a low exchange rate, resulting in direct currency depreciation and a structural loss of prosperity for the Dutch population. But the damage isn't just financial. The dramatic euro coin does not only touch us in our wallet. We have also lost democratic control of our lives, by a super-Commissioner in Brussels who may finally approve or reject our budget, and by a banking union. And later, if we do not intervene, there will be Eurobonds, a budget union and the supervision of our pensions in Brussels. Ladies and gentlemen, how has all this been possible? We have never been told anything about the disastrous consequences. We've never been warned. Did Lubbers, Cook and Salmon know nothing? Were they appallingly silly? Or have they lied to us to serve the European project and not put their own career ambitions at risk? It needs to be figured out. The Dutch people need to know what happened here. And this can only be done through a parliamentary inquiry, because only then can the parties concerned be heard under oath. Cook, Lubbers, Salmon and all the other people who have split the euro in our stomachs. Now they're alive, now we can unravel the creation of this catastrophic fiasco. Am I hopeful that our call will be heard, that the tens of thousands of Dutch who supported our request will be heard? Do I expect you to grant our request? We have little to expect from the party cartel. Ten years ago, the referendum on the European Constitution was ignored. The referendum on the Association Treaty of 6 April last year was laughed away. Will the Dutch people also be deprived of the opportunity to find out what happened to her money? How much longer do you think you'll get away with it? Again and again, the electorate is talked to the mouth in campaign time, while behind the scenes it turns out that party interests are more important than national interests. Not a penny more to Greece, Rutte promised. It was 17 billion. That's a lot of money. Here next to me is Jeroen Dijsselbloem, who is not only Minister of Finance, and who has to look after these pennies, but is also President of the eurogroup. So he had to collect our money on behalf of the EU. This schizophrenic double function is one of the main reasons why the Rutte cabinet has aggravated the crisis in the Netherlands by raising taxes to reach the 3% standard, resulting in structural damage to the Dutch economy and especially to SMEs. The whole country was allowed to bleed for Mr Dijsselbloem's ambitions. Last week in the ticketing affair, it also appeared that MPs are withholding information to protect their minister and are then rewarded for it with a new ministerial post. The euro is the receipt affair to the thousand. I fear that you will keep your party friends who have the euro deception on their consciences again this afternoon, but do not forget that on 15 March...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u3	Mr Baudet, I need to intervene. You are here to explain a citizens' initiative. I would like to leave out personal attacks on directors for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u4	These were not personal attacks, Madam President, but business attacks involving political behaviour. Remember, there are elections on March 15th. The tens of thousands of Dutch people who have supported this request for a parliamentary inquiry are entitled to vote on their behalf. The same applies to the millions of others who have become convinced that the euro is a huge and growing problem for our prosperity and the prosperity of our children. We want to know how things could have gone so wrong. Only you can clarify this by means of the inquiry requested. Open the euro-deaf. Provide insight into this grand miss.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you very much for your input, Mr Baudet. It'll be neat in five minutes. I'd like to ask the guardian of the Chamber to escort you to the President's Lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators of this citizens' initiative. The PVV wholeheartedly supports this citizens' initiative for a parliamentary survey of the euro, the so-called Peuro. The euro knows nothing but losers. We've been able to see that in the past few years. The euro should never have been introduced. Friends and enemies have agreed on that by now. It is therefore incomprehensible that the European elite should artificially keep this currency alive with support programmes and ECB loans of many, many billions. The Netherlands now guarantees more than 300 billion for this policy of the ECB and the European Commission. This is gonna clap sooner or later. The PVV therefore wants to leave the euro as soon as possible. After all, the bill continues to rise. But there's no harm in trying to figure out how it got this far. That is why we support this parliamentary survey. We wish the initiators good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u7	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for this project. It is a very important subject. VNL also believes that the euro project is a historic failure. The Dutch participation in the euro has become an unprecedented failure, which continues to cause financial damage every day. A currency artificially kept alive with Northern European billions has no right to exist. We cannot continue to muddle with this one size fits all policy for different types of monetary cultures. This is also said by prominent people like Frits Bolkestein, Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz and the architect of the euro, Otmar Issing. They have for years warned that the currency is a house of cards that is about to collapse. We would like to hear a response from the Minister. The current ECB policy is catastrophic. The massive printing of money leads to a very dangerous situation. The interest rate that is artificially kept low destroys the purchasing power of pensioners and savers. The Netherlands guarantees over 90 billion debts for southern Europe. VNL therefore says: put an end to this currency union and come up with a workable alternative. As far as we are concerned, we are splitting the euro into a northern and a southern currency. Speaking of alternatives, my group has previously asked written questions about the so-called The Matheo Solution. These questions have been answered horribly badly by the Minister of Finance. Today we would like to hear an extensive appreciation of this alternative from Mr Ten Dam. I'm rounding up. The euro has cost us enormous wealth and sovereignty. As the initiators rightly point out, the introduction of the currency was one of the most radical political decisions in Dutch history. That is why VNL also supports a parliamentary survey on the introduction of the euro. Let those who are responsible, Lubbers, Cook and Salmon, tell their story under oath. The Netherlands deserves it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr. Chairman. I am also allowed to speak on behalf of the SGP. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators and signatories of the Peuro citizens' initiative. It shows that the introduction of the euro is still a matter for concern. This is not surprising, given the euro crisis and its disastrous consequences. I dare say that no one would compose the euro area now in the same way as in the optimistic 1990s. It is clear that not every political leader from that time will admit it, but every politician who took responsibility in the 1990s knows deep down that bringing together northern and southern countries of the European Union in one euro area was a mistake. For Dutch people with pension and savings it is a mistake with a bitter aftertaste. It is a disaster for young people in Greece and Portugal, for example, which extends far beyond the reduction of prosperity and socio-economic consequences. The ghost of nationalism has been kissed awake by the euro, among other things. The call for a political union to better protect the euro further encourages nationalism. That is not only my analysis, but also that of our Minister of Finance, as shown by an interview he gave to NRC Handelsblad last year when he was at the IMF spring meeting. The euro crisis has increased Europe's division and division. Instead of a binding force, which many have intended, it has become a real and political split.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mrs Schouten is always very precise in her analyses. The PvdA and the Christian Union differ on the euro; we know that. What surprises me is that you are devoting the rise of populism to the euro. Trump was elected in America. That has nothing to do with the euro. In England, a Brexit plays. Here in Europe, you also refer to the Minister for Finance, who has had a financial crisis, which I believe has been very important. The degeneration of the financial sector, the unemployment that this led to and the uncertainty that led to were important drivers, much more important than the euro. In fact, I do not believe that the euro was one, but in your weighting too, the financial crisis should be much more important and much heavier than the euro you are putting it on. I think this is easy in a sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u10	I also attached it to further political integration, the discussion that is currently taking place, for example because of the Five Presidents' Report that this Minister has co-tabled and which is taking this path. Then the next thing is all the more remarkable. I quote what this minister said in that interview, so it is not my words: 'The pace of international integration has been too high and the growing nationalism, which the IMF warns of, is an understandable response to'. That is what Minister Dijsselbloem, also President of the eurogroup, said to NRC in Washington. Then it is not because we like each other, but because of the whole discussion about the euro that further integration and its pace have contributed to growing nationalism. Those are the words of your own Finance Minister!
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u11	I will allow the Minister of Finance to respond to this suggestion. What has remained with me is that he gave two reasons which the PvdA Group also supports. First of all, you must not anticipate the people any further than can be worn. Things such as the sudden introduction of European taxes or the imposition of all kinds of European social security schemes, while there is no basis for that at all, will fuel populism further. I support that. Secondly, the cause of much misery in Europe lies in the financial crisis. That is the most important element. And of course there are more causes. I mention migration flows and other issues, but the cause is certainly not the euro. We would have had that misery too, that is my firm conviction, if we still had the guilder. Or does Mrs Schouten think that the financial sector would not have been affected in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u12	I do not agree with Mr Nijboer's analysis that it would be the financial sector alone. There are several components. Mr Nijboer spoke of carefully worded. I said in my text "among others." So I'm not saying this is the only reason. I am convinced, and with me, this Finance Minister, I say, that further political integration, which is a consequence of the fact that we have a euro, contributes to the emergence of nationalism. I think we should also recognise that this is one of the factors why people are now turning very hard against Europe, rather than seeing Europe's blessings. It is good that the initiators of the Peuro are also aware of this. I was just talking about it. The Christian Union has had that insight for a long time. The predecessors of the Christian Union voted against the introduction of the euro and against the participation of Greece and Italy in the euro area. And we didn't leave it at that. In 2012, the ChristianUnion took the initiative to investigate The euro weighted. With this research we tried to break the "there is no alternative" thinking. Unfortunately, this has still not been achieved, as witnessed, for example, the Five Presidents' Report, which has been co-written by the same minister who sees a political union as a force behind increasing nationalism, and rightly so. In preparing for this debate, I read back the argument surrounding the decision-making process on the euro. Of course there was a single valid argument, but overall we have to note that there was a lot of propaganda. Certainly, currency risks and transaction costs decreased, but the intended convergence of European economies, embodied in the so-called convergence criteria, was a sample of wishful thinking of the first order and, worse, an economic error of opinion. The consequences are known. After the introduction of the euro, interest rates in the southern countries in particular fell rapidly, leading, for example, to a real estate bubble in Spain. The euro became too cheap for countries like Germany and the Netherlands, and too expensive for the southern European countries in particular. Fun for business in Germany and our country in particular, but instead of creating convergence, the euro increased the divergence between the economies of northern and southern Europe, resulting in increasing trade deficits in southern Europe. Devalue the currency is no longer there for these countries, since they are voluntarily imprisoned in the euro area, resulting in very painful internal devaluations through lower wages and benefits. It is therefore a pity that the countries for which the euro was not needed, the stronger northern economies, still have the most to do with the euro, while those who were keen to join the euro, the southern countries, suffer most from the euro. Moreover, the fact that the cabinet still believes in convergence is noteworthy, as is evident from its letter in response to the citizens' initiative. Or should I read more about the passage on convergence as a kind of cry of despair, such as: please let this convergence happen quickly, otherwise the euro area will fall apart. I am not even talking about the ECB's policy on Dutch pensions and savings. The introduction of the euro has perhaps been the most decisive step in the current relations within Europe and in the development of Europe. Are we gonna hold each other or are we gonna fall apart? These are such essential questions that a parliamentary inquiry into the creation of the euro is appropriate as far as my group is concerned. Not only to find truth, which is certainly an important part, but also to protect us from "there-is-no-alternative" thinking in the future. In the interests of the Netherlands, but certainly also in Europe's.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u13	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the initiators of the Peuro citizens' initiative, who are addressing this important issue today. I support the proposal to conduct a parliamentary survey. In fact, I will propose this myself, in the form of a motion, on behalf of the Christian Union, the SGP and the Animal Party. Then that motion can also be put to the vote. Many people still face the problems of the euro crisis every day, and I am thinking in particular of the vulnerable in society. Many countries are still experiencing the problems. Many of these problems have not yet been solved. Imagine if you could go back in time, with everything we now know about how the euro has gone. Would we still do the same thing? Would we have introduced the euro? What does the Minister say to that? Imagine if I could go back in time and give an opinion to the then government, then I would not have said much different than what my colleagues, Jan Marijnissen and Ewout Irrgang, said at the time. They said: Europe is not one country, but they are different countries, different cultures with very different economies. You can't force that unit through a single coin. One currency, one monetary policy, one interest rate, which you would like to use for countries with very different economies, which actually need very different solutions. Many economists have pointed out the dangers. How did they handle their advice? The Minister says there has been a lot of talk in the Chamber. That is what he is saying: that is how it happened democratically. But doesn't he forget how the public, the population, was taken? Were they even taken? Did the political parties give sufficient clarity at the end of the 1980s/early 1990s whether they wanted to introduce the single currency at all? Why was it not allowed to hold a referendum so that the public could speak out on this? In particular, the southern Member States have suffered a great deal from the expensive euro, particularly with regard to their exports. I could say a lot about that, but I don't have time for that right now. Mr Stiglitz has written a whole book about it. He has done a good analysis, but he also says that the euro's promise of prosperity for everyone has not been fulfilled. What does the Minister say to that? He's actually saying, what we're doing now only makes the problems bigger. What one sees as a solution for the euro only makes it worse for the euro and for Europe as a whole. He is talking, among other things, about the problem of austerity, but also about the way in which the ECB is blowing new bubbles into the economy, into the financial markets. What if things eventually go wrong, when countries finally get out? Is there a plan B and, if there isn't, shouldn't that be considered? If we're gonna make that plan B, we're gonna have to look back. We need to learn lessons from the past and we need to talk about that. It has often been a bit of a taboo subject. How's dealing with all these risks back then? That is one of the questions to which we must have an answer. That is why we also need a parliamentary survey. How has democracy been handled? How was the population taken? How has the mandate we gave the ECB been handled? Is that still the right mandate? How did we deal with the exchange rate at which we exchanged the guilder for the euro? These are just some of the many questions that I think need to be answered. Those questions have not been answered so far. Let us not wait for a parliamentary survey to take place until the problems have already occurred and the euro has fallen apart; let us do that parliamentary survey now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u14	Mr. Chairman. I had already complimented the initiators on their citizens' initiative. It's an important tool of people. If you manage to collect so many signatures and put them on the Chamber's agenda, it deserves a compliment in a democracy. In a democracy, however, the way in which something is argued and the words chosen are also important. We have seen in our Chamber that the initiator, who does not shy away from big words, chose to compare his initiative for a parliamentary inquiry into the euro with the need for it at the Nuremberg Tribunal or the Truth Committee. That's just said here, in our room. At our invitation, the initiators were here and they dared to make this comparison. I talked to them because that's serious. It is serious that people who take a legitimate citizens' initiative should be legitimate; there are also different views in the Chamber about the euro................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I talked to them about it. Their reaction was: a comparison is not the same as a parable. It was not taken back, but it was put aside, while it is already impossible for you to bring this forward in the heat of battle. That comparison was deliberately chosen by the initiators. That's not right, and it should never have happened. The PvdA Group has distanced itself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u15	The Chamber is now taking part in a discussion between the initiator and Mr Nijboer. We can't control that...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u16	That is absolutely not true, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u17	... because we have not seen an official debate here in the Chamber between Mr Nijboer and the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u18	Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u19	So I find that very annoying, because you're not...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u20	No, this is really wrong. It was a commission...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u21	No, no, wait a minute, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u22	I find it very difficult to judge this properly. So I think it is very good that we should focus on the tens of thousands of people who have signed up to this citizens' initiative. Let us focus on the content of this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u23	That's what I'm talking about. I fully understand that Mrs Thieme cannot be present at all committee activities, but a citizens' initiative has been tabled and the Chamber has organised a hearing on this matter. Many colleagues were present. I believe that everyone I see here was present, except for Mrs Thieme, and I can imagine that very well. It was just a public meeting of the Chamber in the run-up to this debate. So it's nothing personal. We spoke there. I have also appealed to the initiators. I see colleagues nodding now; that is what has happened. Part of it has also been reported. In this process, I address the initiators. It seems to me like the momentum to do that. I did that then, and I will come back to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u24	I thought you had just discussed that with each other in the back, so that is clear now. However, since you discussed this in that committee at the time, I think it is appropriate to use the precious time we have to deal with the concerns of the people who have signed up to this citizens' initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u25	Sure. I'm going into that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u26	As a point of order, I really do not think this is possible either. What Mr Nijboer said at the hearing was right, but he made his point. He is now doing something against which Mr Baudet cannot defend himself here. I do not think it is entirely right to do that here instead of talking about the subject we are actually here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u27	I do, and I choose my own words. A citizens' initiative has been taken. The Chamber invited the initiator to indicate his motivation. This kind of disgusting equation has been made aware. In a democracy, we have the floor here, in the Chamber, to fight it. That's what I do here with as much verve as I can. I think that is appropriate, because I think it is inappropriate to allow such comparisons to be carried out with just one and a half remarks and to settle for the remark that an equation is not the same. This is being done consciously and I appeal to the initiators to do so. That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u28	Mr Merkies, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u29	The point is that Mr Baudet cannot defend himself here. So he can't explain what he means. I am not concerned with the substance of what Mr Nijboer said. When he criticized him, I agreed with him, but that's not the point. Mr Baudet cannot defend himself against that in this setting. That is why I think Mr Nijboer should address the real issue: does he want a parliamentary survey on the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'll get to that. Mr Baudet heard the debate in the Chamber. I spoke to him loudly at the time, on the spot. There was a lame excuse. He now had five minutes to speak, so he had every opportunity to come back to that. He didn't do that either. So I do not agree with you that there was no possibility of taking this back. This has been done deliberately, it is no good, and I will refrain from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u31	I would like to endorse what Mr Nijboer said. We did indeed have this discussion in public at the hearing. In the context of the citizens' initiative and the debate we are having today, I think it is important for Mr Nijboer to be able to make this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u32	Thank you. I now turn to the content of the proposal, because colleagues are shy about it too. I understand that, too. I'd like to say something about that. In a democracy, the debate is being held in public and it is also taking a firm stand. This has also happened with regard to the euro. The introduction of the euro has been democratically decided, also by this Parliament, following debates. There is a great social debate, including internationally and not only in Europe, because the Americans too have had their say on this. Scientists and people in the country have also participated. Not everyone was in favour of it; it was at the time, but a democratic decision was finally taken on the introduction of the euro. In recent years too, as a Chamber, we have discussed the future of the euro over and over again, as well as what was needed. For example, some parties felt that Greece should leave the euro, preferably as soon as possible. Some also felt that this should be done, but in an orderly manner; I look at Mrs Schouten. This has been the subject of ongoing debates, sometimes every month and sometimes more often than once a month. It's a well-known fact. It is also known that not everyone agrees. That's a completely different question. The initiators are opponents of the euro. We have heard that, according to them, the euro is a kamikaze project. The PvdA Group does not agree; the PvdA Group does not agree, but we do not need a parliamentary survey to find out. We know that; that has been changed, and that has been democratically decided, in a fair and democratic way. If you don't agree with that, that's something else. That's okay, but that's really a different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u33	Sure. You can think differently about whether, in order to preserve the euro, you should further integrate or fill in Europe in a different way. That is looking to the future, but I think Mr Nijboer shares with me the observation that there is a great deal of distrust in the Netherlands and in the rest of Europe about the European Union and the European project. In order to do some justice to this mistrust or at least to respond to it, it would at least be good to conduct a parliamentary survey, which would at least allow us to review all kinds of stories about the euro. In this way, we do justice to people's concerns, because if anything is needed in Europe, it is confidence, monetary alone. Does Mr Nijboer agree with me from his point of view that a parliamentary survey would at least be good for the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u34	No, I don't think this will contribute to that. I do recognise that many people have great concerns, for example with regard to labour migration and labour competition. Workers lose their jobs, their wages are under pressure or they lose their jobs. Our list leader, Lodewijk Asscher, proposes to counter this. Because there are concerns, we are in favour of proposals against tax avoidance, European coordinated cooperation and sometimes transfer of powers. Because of the concerns we are in favour of forming a banking union, so that the financial sector cannot again give such a blow to people in the Netherlands and people elsewhere in Europe. These are the proposals that, according to the PvdA, restore confidence. In our view, a parliamentary inquiry into the creation of the euro does not contribute much to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u35	Shouldn't we, the Parliament, also have a good understanding of the way in which this monetary project was carried out, in particular because of the statements we have heard on a regular basis in recent years, which showed that what was actually being done was not known at all, that the risks were enormous but that they were taken for granted and that the euro was even seen as a possible means of coercion to further shape and push through this political integration at a later date? Those are things that people are worried about and angry about. Is it not important, therefore, that the bottom stone should emerge as regards the way in which this has been achieved, also in order to answer the question whether it is indeed true?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u36	The euro is an economic project, but it is also a political project. France and Germany joined forces, having a very different monetary tradition, and more and more European countries participated in this over the years. This has not only been a financial and economic balance, but has also been a political balance. That was already the case at Kohl's time in Germany and others in the European Union. So that is not something new or unknown and there is nothing mysterious about it. All this has been discussed in public, debated and all the parliaments participating in the euro have therefore not only been informed about this by our Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u37	I'm gonna ask you a quick question. Would Mr Nijboer re-introduce the current euro if he had the choice to do so or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u38	I think I would have done that in those years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u39	Would he do the same now that we see that the initiators have already mentioned the amount of money that citizens have secured, the extent to which the pensions of ordinary people are affected and the increasing distrust in Europe? We have just had a small debate on this, in which several factors emerged, and the far-reaching political integration is part of that. Would Mr Nijboer with that knowledge re-introduce that euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u40	Yeah, I would. I do not share Mrs Schouten's analysis. This has just been mentioned in our earlier debate. The euro is seen by some as the tool that brings all the prosperity in Europe. That position has never been shared by the PvdA Group. Now, to be honest, some people have put the euro in that group today, Mrs Schouten, as a source of all evil and misery in Europe. Of course, that doesn't make any sense. We've had a financial crisis. We've had migratory flows. We are dealing with the rise of populism in countries which have nothing to do with the euro. Trump is perhaps the most pressing example of this. In the past, when the euro was not there, the European project - Europe - was the fault of everything. The PVV can talk about that. But that's not a thorough analysis of what's going on in society, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr Nijboer blames me for making it a caricature, but I honestly think he is making a caricature of my input. I didn't say it was just that. However, I would be truly surprised if Mr Nijboer were to claim that the euro contributed to bringing the countries of the European Union closer together. Or has he been to Greece once? I was in Athens not so long ago, where I spoke to a young man who served on a terrace. He had studied medicine and really hated Germany because of everything that is happening now. I couldn't explain to that young man that the euro brought us together. Will Mr Nijboer acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u42	The European project of which the euro is a part has brought a great deal of prosperity. It is an illusion to think that Greece would have gone fantastic if it had not had the euro. Corruption is a problem there, people don't pay taxes and the economy is behind schedule. These are Greece's problems. We are helping Greece to recover, as we did with Ireland, where it has been successful, and with Portugal and Spain, where things are going a little bit better. The problem of Greece is persistent, because corruption is not just solved. However, it is not the case that the economy would have flourished if the euro had not been introduced. I really don't share that analysis. I do not share that it would have been so much better without the euro. Then one could have devalued and perhaps twice, but I doubt very much whether the economy would have been better for it or if the social conditions would have been better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u43	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that the Labour Party does not support the citizens' initiative for a parliamentary inquiry into the decision-making process on the creation of the euro, both because of the reasons put forward and because of the democratic decision-making process which has simply gone its way.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u45	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for their contribution to an essential debate on the monetary structure of the Netherlands. It's a special debate a few weeks before the election. We shall see who will be in the Chamber in six weeks' time, from Box K, from the initiators who also represent a political party, and from this Chamber. The CDA was and is in favour of the euro. There are great advantages for the Netherlands as a trading country. However, the euro is not going well. The southern countries did not put their economies in order and the convergence which was advocated in 1992 did not take place. Some of this was foreseeable. Greece's admission was not a good idea at that time either. The CDA Group voted against it. The Stability and Growth Pact, the important stick behind the door, has not worked. The first two of these offenders, France and Germany, were also close to the Netherlands, were not penalised and the subsequent infringements of Greece and Italy were also left unpunished. We have come into a banking union, and that is indeed a transfer of powers. There are good reasons for that. The Netherlands no longer only guarantees the relatively large banks in the country. We share that risk. Even if we did not have a euro, we would have a fairly integrated financial sector. The CDA is extremely critical of the way in which a number of things are and have expired. It was an explicit mandate of the European Central Bank under the Maastricht Treaty not to carry out monetary financing. The current buy-back programme of EUR 2,500 billion, over €6,000 per euro area resident, was not the intention of the Treaty. However, we are having a debate on this with the Minister on 13 February. We have drawn up an own-initiative paper because we believe that the European Central Bank does not, I repeat, comply with the mandate. Certain countries, France, Italy, also have very poor compliance with the agreements. We need to see how this can be improved. However, the question before us today is whether we should conduct a parliamentary inquiry. My group sees great challenges for the euro, precisely because of the policy of the European Central Bank and the fact that part of the Treaty is not being complied with. If it were to be respected, Sweden and Poland would already have joined. They are obliged to do so on the basis of the European Treaty. And since the problems are not over, we are proposing something else, namely that we make a request to the Council of State, which is formally called: to ask for information to see which institutional improvements can be identified. All the advantages and disadvantages must also be identified in order to see how the euro is going to proceed, also in view of a number of disadvantages which have clearly come to light. I would normally ask the government this, but since this is an instrument of the Chamber, I cannot put the question directly to the government and I will table a motion for that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u46	Mr. Chairman. The experiment with the euro has failed. With this judgment, the Party for Animals is in good company. A long line of eminent economists has preceded us. Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz has pointed out that nothing has come of the promise of convergence. The Member States have not grown together. Greece and Duitlsand are farther apart than ever. The euro has not turned out to be a binder, but a spatter. Figures show that citizens have not or hardly benefited from the single currency. Yeah, we don't have to trade in anymore before we cross the border, but how big is that advantage if you just have an ATM anywhere, especially if you put this next to stagnant incomes in large parts of the euro area? Many households are at the pre-century level in terms of purchasing power, with Greece as a deterrent exception. There, salaries have fallen by 30% since 2008, the economy has shrunk by a quarter and health care is hardly a shadow of what it once was, with all the consequences. The euro has not only not fulfilled its economic promises. In his response to the petition, the Minister spoke of a slight loss of national sovereignty. We are of a different opinion. The euro has seriously affected our sovereignty, especially since the crisis. The measures taken to maintain the euro have seriously undermined national budgetary law. The strengthened Growth and Stability Pact has made us, Dutch representatives of the people, ceremonial ribbon cutters of everything that is approved in Brussels. This opinion is sometimes put away as populist by traditional political parties, but here too we are in good company. On 18 January 2013, the Council of State published an information to the First Chamber, which warned against this danger. The strengthened Stability and Growth Pact would inevitably mean that Parliament's role will be 'less on codecision and more on accountability and ex post control' and I quote the Council. We know all about that. Politically-performed facts. The people's office has checked it out. So the gullible tone of the Minister in response to this citizens' initiative is totally inappropriate. We strongly support the citizens' initiative's call for a parliamentary inquiry to be conducted which can be heard by those responsible under oath. It was planned. André Szász, former director of the Nederlandsche Bank, was present at a number of cabinet councils at the time and told in the NRC of 30 May 2008 that Lubbers repeatedly wondered if the political authorities were aware of what they were doing with regard to the introduction of the euro. They have no idea; no idea, said Minister of Economic Affairs Koos Andriessen. I don't know. In fact, we are already very late in conducting a parliamentary inquiry into the greatest monetary experiment in history. A hasty introduction that had the character of: if it doesn't go as it should, then it has to go as it goes. "Scheiters der Euro, Dann shuiters Europa." Because this is an unnegotiable theme for many parties, they choose the flight ahead: more integration rather than less; more transfer of power rather than less. It is time for a parliamentary survey; just as much as I also believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with a special citizens' initiative. Mr Baudet has just spoken. Mr Hiddema is a guest of this debate. These gentlemen not only want a parliamentary survey on the introduction of the euro, they are also leaders of a political party. That is a party that wants to leave the European Union and to stop the euro. This shows the true nature of this citizens' initiative. This isn't about finding the truth. They are concerned with the cultivation of suspicion, with the pursuit of mistrust, but also, as Mr Nijboer just reminded us, with the making of very unfresh comparisons. The gentlemen have already come to their conclusion: the Netherlands must leave the euro, the Netherlands must leave the European Union. D66 does not allow the right of inquiry to be abused for such a political show trial. With Putin and Trump in power, a united Europe is more needed than ever. The European Union is not an ideal but an absolute necessity. Surely there is no one so naive to believe that the Brexit is a blessing, if it comes from the mouth of a president with "America first" as motto? The time has come for European countries to play a decisive role in the world on their own is long past. That certainly applies to the Netherlands. A nexit is not in the interests of the Netherlands. A divided Europe is playing into Trump and Putin. D66 isn't cooperating. D66 prefers to put all the energy into improving the European Union, i.e. to make it more democratic, more transparent, more effective than in a time-consuming parliamentary survey that will not lead to new insights. The fact that the Netherlands has been sleepwalking into the euro, as Mr Baudet is trying to tell us, is completely nonsense. The fact that Baudet disagrees with the introduction of the euro does not mean that there has been no detailed debate on this issue. For decades, there have been numerous investigations and debates, scientific but certainly also political, and there have been tough negotiations on the conditions under which countries could join.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u48	I find it extremely distasteful that Mr Koolmees is talking about Trump and Putin to further shape D66's European dream project. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who may not have anything to do with Trump, but they are worried about the fact that this European train is going through March, at the expense of taxpayers in order to save the banks and at the expense of democracy, which means that they no longer have a grip on their lives, on their pensions, on their jobs, on their land. If Mr Koolmees is trying to further complete his European project by pointing out dangers such as Trump and Putin, he is wronging the real concerns of those who say that we need to make a pass in Europe. If we want a peaceful Europe in which we respect all kinds of peoples within Europe, then we must also do justice to the different cultures and economies. I would ask Mr Koolmees to ensure that he keeps the debate on this citizens' initiative pure and simple. I ask him not to focus again, like all the other Europhiles in this regard, on the great danger outside Europe, which should lead to further European integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u49	My reference to Trump and Putin has everything to do with Europe. After the Second World War, the European Community, the European Union, was not founded for nothing: never again war through cooperation, through integration, by working together in the world. That is the origin of Europe. Of course, that has everything to do with each other. Of course, it also has to do with what is happening in the world right now, with China, with Putin and Trump. D66 has traditionally been a pro-European party. Of course, we need to work more together in Europe to meet these geopolitical challenges. We've been working on that since 1957. Since 1979 we have been discussing the European monetary system. We have Schengen, we have the internal market, we are slowly getting a common defence policy. Of course, that has everything to do with each other. The challenges of this age must be addressed by Mrs Thieme in terms of climate, environment and the depletion of the earth can only be solved internationally by working with these countries and in Europe. So this has everything to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u50	European cooperation is fine, but you don't have to have a common wallet to get it done. For peace and security in Europe, we did not need a euro. The euro appears to be causing instability. The fact that Europe is primarily focused on expansion, on more free market and on more free trade agreements at the expense of vulnerable people indicates that this European project is supposedly being sold as a project of peace and security, but in fact it is a project with one thing in mind and that is free trade, Eurocracy and a reduction in democracy. D66 should think a little bit longer instead of trying to sell the often.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u51	I am sorry, but in recent years we have been calling for a great deal of attention to be paid to a democratic and transparent Europe. There are things that really go wrong. I agree with that immediately. Today's challenges lie in the climate, the environment, nature, human rights, working conditions and the high values that we in Europe share together. We live with 500 million people in some kind of paradise in the world. This has everything to do with European cooperation and European integration. I have just said that since 1957 there has been talk of a "ever-closer union" because it is in our interest to work together, to make agreements together. This includes an internal market. That's part of free trade. This also includes joint defence of our values, including human rights, gay rights, climate, asylum and the reception of refugees. These are all European values. This includes an internal market with a euro.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u52	Really rounding up, Mrs Thieme.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u53	A party such as D66, which has democracy even in its name, should be concerned about the fact that the democratic deficit, the democratic deficit, is so great in Europe that it is absolutely careless and undemocratic to give Brussels all the power in terms of budgets? We must agree to this, and the Dutch Parliament no longer has any control over it, except by means of ex post control. That's what the Council of State concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u54	I do not know whether Mrs Thieme has read our electoral programme, but it says that we are concerned about the democratic deficit in Europe and that we want to strengthen democracy. That's not new. This is not only in this election programme, it has been an important issue in our electoral programme for decades. One of the reasons why countries such as Greece and Portugal have been in trouble in recent years is that there has been little control of budgets, which has allowed the economy of Greece and Portugal to derail. In the first years of the euro, growth has been very high in Greece, Spain and Portugal. The introduction of the euro doubled GDP in those eight years. Meanwhile, a lot of things happened underneath, affecting the economic structure and competitiveness. What we have now introduced, the six-pack, the two-pack, the co-thinking of macroeconomic imbalances, can stop this kind of bubble building. Mrs Thieme should be very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u56	For decades, there have been numerous investigations and debates, scientific but certainly also political, and there have been tough negotiations on the conditions under which countries could join. You really don't have to be such a very important intellectual to see that the introduction means less sovereignty. The Maastricht Treaty is literally about an ever-close union. Of course, the creation of a European Central Bank or the signing of the Stability and Growth Pact, whereby countries can get fines if they do not have their budget in order, that sovereignty is transferred, or rather that sovereignty is shared. Of course, it was known that a single currency has risks. It is not for nothing that Minister Zalm was nicknamed "Il Duro" when he kept Italy out of the euro because of these big risks to the Netherlands. In 2000, Mr Omtzigt said that the risks were also explicitly raised when the vote was taken on Greece's accession. The CDA then tabled a motion requesting a vote against. However, a large majority, including MP Geert Wilders, agreed to Greece's accession. These are just a few examples that show that the risks were well known and that they were also accepted, because the goal, a collaborative Europe, was more important. I am convinced that this is still the best choice today. In the interests of the Netherlands, a united Europe is the only answer to a world in which Russia, China and now America choose for themselves. Let us work on this and not waste our energy on a lengthy parliamentary survey.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u57	This sounded like a lockdown. If Mr Koolmees defends the euro, he will bring in all sorts of things. He brought in World War II, as did Putin, Trump and asylum. The answer to this is always: the euro. It's kind of crazy, actually. I'd like to have a clear discussion. As Mrs Thieme said, we want a parliamentary survey to look back at how the euro was introduced. That's what it's about. Mr Koolmees also mentioned a nextit. It's not about that. It is about how the euro was introduced. Mr Koolmees says we already know all the answers. That's a little his arrogance. It seems to us that this is not the case. In his examples, he does not talk about how much the euro actually paid. Is he still under the impression that it's paid off? How much did he say he'd make? There are differences of opinion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u58	Mr Merkies asks a number of questions. I'm gonna have to deal with them separately. Sorry about that, Mr. Chairman. No, the euro is not the answer to everything, certainly not, but European cooperation is also much wider than the euro. It is about issues such as climate, environment, security and the joint banking supervision that we have held in recent years. This European cooperation is important for a country like the Netherlands. The euro is part of that, as is the single market, which we have since 1986, is an important part of Europe's shared prosperity, which makes us stronger together. Such a discussion on monetary policy in Europe has been going on for decades. Since 1979 we have had the European monetary system, or the'snake', in which exchange rates were linked precisely because we wanted to integrate economically. That's since 1979. The euro is a follow-up to this. It has therefore been debated and discussed for 20 years, and studies have been carried out. So it happened overnight, no, that's bullshit, too. The euro is an important part of the European framework. Mr Merkies further asked what it has brought. The latest studies on this subject are the studies of the Central Planning Office, which refer to "one thirteen months" in terms of European integration and which refer to "one week a year for every Dutchman" in relation to the euro. There are many advantages and disadvantages to be mentioned and there are many comments to be made. In recent years, during the euro crisis, a great deal of studies have been carried out on the cost of breaking up. These studies give different results, but one thing is clear: breaking up costs a lot of money. That's all we know right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u59	Mr Koolmees has always eagerly quoted all these studies from the Central Planning Office. I am also thinking of Mr Teulings who wrote about it in his booklet. By the way, Mr Teulings has just written an article in which he says that it is not working. So Mr Teulings has at least come back from it. Is D66 gonna stick to it now? The euro seems like a kind of religion for D66 that you should not doubt. If new studies show that it is different, why does D66 even want to stop the investigation? Because that's it: a parliamentary survey is an investigation so that we can see what was really going on. However, Mr Koolmees already knows the answer for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u60	I have just explained in detail why D66 is a heartfelt and fervent advocate of more European cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u62	Well, I actually wanted to keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u63	But it is not about European cooperation. That is what I want to talk about, and that is what we talk about very often, but we are now talking about the euro and a parliamentary survey on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u64	I have also argued why the euro is part of European cooperation and that I do not believe that we have been messed up. We have had a lot of debates about it, all of which are contained in reports that Mr Merkies can well read. I think we should devote our energy to making Europe better.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u65	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the initiators for taking this citizens' initiative on the euro. The euro has had serious problems since the start of the financial crisis. Many Dutch people feel that we have exchanged a stable guilder for a less stable euro. These concerns are sometimes not even unjustified, because there were risks and gaps in the design and structure of the euro. Some of them were foreseen during the introduction of the euro, but were seen as something that would be resolved in due course. Countries would naturally grow to one another, so they were supposed to. In addition, some agreements have not been sufficiently maintained. In short, it is more difficult than 25 years ago to think of keeping the single currency truly stable and to get and keep the economies of the euro area competitive. But in order to answer the question before us about a parliamentary survey, we need to look at what we do not know about the creation of the euro. And there are many facts about this, from the Maastricht compromise where France accepted German reunification only if it could keep Germany in check with a single currency. The rest is also well known: the SGP to prevent countries from passing risks on to each other, breaking it by Germany and France, the euro crisis and its rescue plans, tighter budgetary surveillance and the banking union. As far as I am concerned, however, there are no questions which can be answered only by means of a survey. Moreover, some things are no longer comparable in time. The euro from then on is not the same as it is today, because the EU has changed its character in the meantime: from 12 Member States in Maastricht to 28 today. The key players in the decision-making process at that time think of people as former Prime Minister Lubbers.. have also shared their views with us all in detail in interviews. That's why we're not in favour of a survey. This is quite apart from the fact that the initiators had already finished their assessment of this, given the comparison they made here in the Chamber with the tribunal after the war. However, the question of how the euro can work better remains valid for a long time to come. This choice is greater than the two tastes you often hear: on the one hand, a euro with a federal European government, on the other hand, no euro at all. I think that this is more a form of wishful thinking from both camps in that debate: those who prefer to stop immediately with the euro and those who answer to every conceivable question that it needs to be regulated at European level. In this way, the European Parliament is waiting for more powers, more money and more influence, including for the euro. We do not want such a political union, but there is no reason to give up the euro. It may be a difficult road, but it is possible. To do so, we must continue to work hard to make it less possible for countries to shift their problems to another. The Netherlands has been and continues to be a precursor to this subject since the 2011 letter of the then cabinet. For example, the Netherlands is arguing for a simpler SGP, with clearly enforceable standards and the Minister has suggested the possibility of having a body other than the Commission, such as the ESM, look at the budgets. Because it is about the value of our money and a decision about our currency can affect every conceivable piece of our economy directly and indirectly, it has a great impact on the lives of all Dutch people. Therefore, this path is more a matter of evolution than revolution. Is that ideal? No, but the optimum currency area does not exist and will never exist. "One size fits none" actually applied to the guilder, which was then also linked to other European currencies. The influence and sovereignty that the Netherlands had on monetary policy at the time should not be overestimated either, because with the guilder too, the Dutch Bank was exactly one minute behind the Deutsche Bundesbank's interest rate decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u66	Mr Merkies has a question, a very short one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u67	What do you mean short?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u68	Because it's an interruption. Otherwise, it's gonna be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u69	It can be quite short. Mr Harbers always makes the following point: it actually started when Germany and France committed infringements; they should have been fined immediately, because then it would not have happened. Does he really believe in that? Does he really believe that after that all countries would have complied with the 3% standard? In fact, under Rutte himself, we also had deficits of more than 3%. Would that not have happened and would Rutte have complied with the standard if Germany and France had complied with the standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u70	I mentioned one of the facts in a long series of events in and after the creation of the euro. You can go much further back in time. You can even go to the eighties, when the French came up with an idea for the euro, then as a counterweight to the dollar. What took place at the beginning of this century was that at that time the European Commission did not intervene. I note that this was seen as a mistake in Germany itself after 2010, as something that could perhaps have been avoided with some extra cuts. This has also created certain expectations in the market, anticipating less stringent enforcement of the Pact. In that sense, it was decisive. In those circumstances, it was obvious that it was not an excessive offence to intervene. The Netherlands has always intervened. In that respect, the 3% standard is not so hard, because if you go beyond it, you have to get back under it. Fortunately, this does not have to be done in one year in the Netherlands; we had to do it for a few years as long as you get below that deficit line again. Germany and France could have done that in 2003 within a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u71	We have not exceeded that standard for one year but several years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u72	Yes, several years; that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u73	We were at 4%, 5%. In addition, there were several countries. We weren't the only country. I believe that at some point there was only one country in Europe that complied with the standard. I think that was Bulgaria. This indicates that there are other factors, such as the deregulation of the financial sector, the banking sector, and the euro itself. Does Mr Harbers deny that now? In fact, he makes it seem as if it was only a matter of exceeding the standard, as if everything had been okay if we had kept people to the standards and if France and Germany had kept to the standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u74	I didn't say that at all. I said: I mention one of the many facts that have been decisive for the whole structure, for the confidence that exists in financial markets or not and for the ways in which you maintain it in the future. Maybe things would have turned out differently, but we all don't know that. It worked out the way it did in 2003. Before the financial crisis in 2008, all countries were in the same boat, all borrowing at the same low German interest rate. But after 2008, when the tide became economically low again, you suddenly saw who was swimming without clothes. Those countries were the first to get into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u75	I would point out that the answers must also be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u76	Does Mr Harbers think that monetary union has failed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u77	No, but on the question of whether I would have given a different shape to monetary union if we had taken that decision in 2017, I say yes. That was one of the questions you asked someone else. With the knowledge of today, anno 2017, in a 28-year-old European Union, you would probably have made a different decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u78	One of the main players in the introduction of the euro, however, has come to the conclusion that monetary union has failed. That's Mr Bolkestein. He wrote in an opinion article: The Netherlands swims in a trap and doesn't know how to find its way back. Are these not a number of reasons why we should review how we can learn lessons from the past through a parliamentary survey? So we have to look at how to proceed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u79	At the same time, we know a great deal about the trade-offs that were made for everyone in 1991, 1992 and 1997. All this can be read back in the Acts of the Chamber. That's what I did. In that you can see that it is ultimately also a product of the weighting by Chamber factions of different considerations and arguments. On this basis, they finally decided whether they were for or against the introduction. I note that at that time an overwhelming majority, including my party, agreed to the decisions that were taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u80	I think that the comments made by one of the main players, Mr Bolkestein, are a reason for looking at how we should proceed now. If the VVD does not follow Mr Bolkestein, that is her own assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u81	This is exactly what I have just said in my speech: for a parliamentary survey, you should actually look for answers that you do not know. Mr Bolkestein spoke about this. I quoted Mr Lubbers. There are many from the 1990s who have already given their views in many interviews. That information is available. It's information that we can't just get out with a survey. As far as I am concerned, there are no further questions that need to be answered. However, the euro is now a matter for further discussion. That is why the debate on how to further strengthen that foundation under the euro will continue for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u82	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u83	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I say that Mrs Thieme is not present at the Minister's reply because of other obligations, namely another debate in the Chamber. The same applies to Mr Omtzigt. He has a hearing elsewhere in the Chamber. He'll be back on the second term. Even if they are not present now, they are following the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u84	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators for a new occasion, which is a regular occasion for discussing the euro, monetary union and this time in particular the history of origin. This concerns the extent to which the euro is the cause of the economic problems we have had in the euro area in recent years. That is actually the key question. Let me go back to the phase for the introduction of the euro, which determines the context in which this decision was taken. It's not a decision that just fell out of the sky. There has been a long preparation period, in which there has been a lot of debate in Europe and in the Netherlands, especially in parliament, and in which many reports and very many Chambers have appeared. We have indicated in the letter in the footnotes which letters and reports have been published. That is only a limited anthology. You could go back to the Werner report in 1970. The Delors report is of course very important. The development towards the ringing of our coins has not gone from one day to the next either. It's not like suddenly after the fall of the Wall that idea came into being. The political momentum was created then, but the idea had been present for a long time. There were also many less or more successful attempts to link currencies within the European Union. Already in 1973 the snake was formed, in which the currencies were connected within a certain margin and allowed to move in. The EMS and the ECU unit of account were introduced in 1979. This development has a much longer history. If we think that only after the fall of the Wall a purely political decision was made to link coins together, then we really do not do justice to that history. When we took the decision and discussed, for example, the Maastricht Treaty, did we not talk about the risks of entering into monetary union? I'm sure that's done. Read the pieces. This is also a reason for some groups to oppose it. Has there been any indication of risk by economists? That's definitely done. If political risks are recognised or if economists point out risks, should you not make the decision? I don't think so. Risks can be weighed. You can arm yourself against it, and you can take action. Then you have to make sure that those measures are implemented, that something happens to them and that you respond to changing circumstances. I do not think the way in which political decision-making is being discussed at that stage is correct. That does not do justice to the way the debate was held at the time. The Dutch government was aware of the risks at the time. Not only in the Netherlands but also in Germany and other countries was a lively debate about what it means to give up a single currency. This debate also took place in Italy, where there was a somewhat longer tradition of regularly devaluating the currency in order to repair the competitive position somewhat and for a short time. There too, it has been realized that if we adopt the euro, we will lose that instrument in our toolbox. People have wondered what that would mean. There was a lot of talk about that at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u85	You are looking at Mr Merkies, who is now standing at the interrupting microphone. I think it's okay if you finish your story or your introduction first. Then we're gonna see if there's room for interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u86	I need your help, Mr. Chairman. Do you want me to finish the whole story? That's one variant. Or do you want an introduction and then a point?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u87	How was your story built? If I know that, I can estimate when there could be an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u88	Perhaps this is a good time to consider the introduction as completed. I didn't really have an introduction; I had a continuous story.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u89	Then I take this opportunity to say that I allow three interruptions. We are doing the interruptions in two: a question and a follow-up question. I call Mr Merkies.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u90	As I mentioned earlier, I was not so much concerned with the fact that it has been discussed here in Parliament. It was about how the public, the people, is involved. It was not to be held in a referendum. Let us look at the period before the 1992 Maastricht Treaty. Does the Minister think it was clear what the parties stood for? Was it clear to the electorate that this party does want a single currency and that party does not want a single currency?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u91	That's a bit of a complicated question to ask me. Did the voters know at that time what the SP stood for? I think so. I highly estimate you. I think that Mr Marijnissen made that clear at that time. I don't understand the question very well. As far as the involvement of the population is concerned, you must realise that at that time the support of the Dutch people was very, very high. Surveys showed that. The criticism of the functioning of Europe that is now widespread, following the euro crisis, the 2015 migration wave and other events, was really different at that time. It is also understandable that it was different, because it was a different time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u92	The SP entered the Chamber in 1994. I am talking about the period before that and about the parties who ran for office at that time. I took a look at that. I could not find in any of the party programmes prior to the Maastricht Treaty what one wanted with the euro and whether one wanted one euro. Then you can't really make a choice as a voter, can you? At some point that wall will fall and it is apparently a project that the Heads of Government want quickly. Hasn't that got through much too quickly at the time, without consulting the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u93	I really do not think this is true, but I would like to suggest to Mr Merkies that we go back in time and see how long and in how many different forms of monetary integration has been anticipated in Europe. That has been discussed endlessly. Studies, reports and advice have been written on it. Parliamentary debates have been held and letters have been written by Cabinets since the mid-1980s. There have been several attempts to create currencies and monetary stability. Our memory is short. Just remember that in the European monetary system, in which currencies were sounded together, 23 currency crises arose in a short time. 23 times there was speculation, just to break up those coins. This happened in the 1970s, the 1980s and the 1990s. This led to monetary instability, economic instability and much damage to trade between countries. We've all forgotten that now, because it doesn't exist anymore. We have one coin now. Now it's easy to trade. You know what it's worth. You don't know what that tomorrow's worth, but it's a stable currency. Even during the entire crisis, it has been a stable currency. The decision to break these coins together and even to take the step towards a single currency at some point had a lot to do with the economic context of great monetary instability. Even against the Dutch guilder was speculated at some point. We have all forgotten that, but that is the context, economic and political, in which that decision was taken. Mr. Chairman. I spoke about the euro phase, the context in which the decision was taken and the history of that decision. At the time of introduction a lot has been said about the risks. The Dutch Government and the German Government, with which much was increased, have strongly engaged in an independent ECB with a strict mandate, as laid down in the Treaty. We did not want monetary financing and a no-bail-out clause. This means that countries are not obliged to guarantee the debts of other countries. That is still the case, by the way. Although we lend money to countries in crisis, they are still obliged to pay off their debts. That is why it is so important that we do not simply strip off debts against each other, but that aside. This also has to do with the guarantees we made at the time. Why did we do that? Because we knew that we were not taking a step towards full political union. Such a union would require countries from Brussels how, for example, they should address their pensions and how they should organise their pension systems or housing markets. A step towards such a union was deliberately not taken at the time, and I think that is still deliberately not being taken. But that means that countries also have to bear a large part of the responsibility for their own financial system, and therefore should not take over each other's debts. These aspects have therefore been discussed in full at the time. There was also talk back then about whether, if we are in a monetary union, we would not immediately need one banking supervision and one banking requirement system. There was even a hook made for that in the treaty back then. Unfortunately, that was not introduced at the time, I say. If only that had been arranged immediately, on a good solid level. But that time was the time of deregulating banks. However, has it been discussed at that time? We have already been asked: what does this mean for our financial sector and for our financial markets? Yeah, sure, there was plenty of talk about it. It's all been discussed. I come to the stage after the introduction of the euro and before the crisis. That is actually the most crucial stage if you want to understand how that crisis came about. Because what many people had not anticipated is that after the introduction of the euro, the financial markets were actually going to charge the same low interest rates to all countries to which money was lent. This was not strictly rational of the financial markets, since the countries still had a high degree of autonomy. In one country there were large risks in the economy, in the economy or in other areas of the macro-economy. In other countries it was all very prudent and the situation in the economy was much safer. But the markets do not differentiate between countries. The same interest was calculated everywhere, and it was very low. For the Nordic countries this did not matter very much, because there was always relatively low interest rates. For southern European countries, however, this meant that money suddenly became very cheap. This resulted in a huge over-crediting, because the money was cheap and easy to borrow. In some countries, this is reflected in public finances, but much more you saw it in households. In housing markets the prices suddenly rose enormously and everyone suddenly went into real estate. I would point out what happened in Spain and Ireland. Overcrediting in Greece has increased enormously during that period. Household consumption expenditure increased by 40% during that period before the crisis in Greece. Households therefore had 40% more to spend in a short period of time. Was there real economic growth underneath that? No, that was credit. And yes, out of that 40% additional purchasing power of households from that period, 25% has disappeared in the crisis. Everyone always stresses that Europe's policy towards Greece has failed because purchasing power has been reduced by 25%. Take a look at the years before that, where the problem arose from cheap interest rates. Only then will you understand. Was that the euro's fault? No, not on its own. It was the fault of national governments that did not pursue good macroeconomic policies. It was perhaps also the fault of the financial markets, which did not distinguish on the basis of the risks that still existed in different countries. Partly because of this low interest rates, these risks have even built up. And I'll say it one more time: in the meantime, we deregulated the financial sector. So the crisis came from that angle too. That's how I get to my fourth point. What happened when the crisis broke out? Was that the euro's fault? No, not at all. However, if you are in a monetary unit, you can no longer decide on devaluation or the valuation of your currency. So you don't have that instrument anymore. If it goes badly economically it is easy and attractive to devalue your currency, because then you are suddenly more competitive. But that problem was also discussed at the start of monetary union. In Italy, for example, it was said that it is a good thing that we do not have that instrument anymore, because then we are finally going to reform. Only the money became so cheap that the pressure to reform fell away, and the need to continue with that convergence fell away. Convergence is an important word in this respect. The pressure to continue this convergence in Europe and in the euro area fell, because interest rates were very low. Members are all politicians, so they know that the enthusiasm to intervene is very limited if there is no external pressure, and there is no need to reform or put the budget in order. Of course, that's a threat now. The instruments of interest rate policy and devaluation to tackle the crisis were therefore out of the hands of the countries. So they had to do other things. The crisis struck hard and acutely, which also had to do with the enormous risks that had built up in the financial sector in almost all European countries. We have had banking crises in Spain, Ireland, Greece, the Netherlands and England, including in non-euro countries. The crisis started in the U.S., I don't have to tell the Chamber. The impact of the financial crisis and its disruption have been immense. Because we are in a currency union, you do not have certain easy instruments, which make you really forced to tackle your problems. The interesting thing is that this has been done well in a number of countries, which are also the countries that are currently growing most: Ireland and Spain. Those countries had major imbalances in their economies in housing, banking and government, but they have been addressed and they now have growth rates of around 4, while unemployment there is falling very rapidly. There is also a lot of investment. Is that all the fault of the euro? No. Does that mean that, if you are in a currency union, you need to take even stronger national responsibility in the macro-economic field? Yes. Should we have dealt with the banks sooner? During that period, the banking sector experienced a huge increase in scale. Think of the Dutch banks, which were operating very cross-border throughout Europe. Yeah, we should have done that before. That's what we've done now. We have not forgotten the crisis in this respect, we have used it to strengthen the structure of monetary union: on the budgetary side, the agreements are now tighter and more binding. Yeah, it's true, there are countries that still drag behind this and don't always keep agreements. I am always very critical of that, as the Chamber knows. But the overall picture of the euro area is that we have been on average at a growth rate of between 1.5 and 2. The deficits have fallen to below 1.5% on average, albeit of course with differences. Debts in most countries are beginning to decline, while unemployment is falling rapidly in many countries. That is where we stand now, partly because of the many measures taken in and after the crisis. Mrs Schouten spoke about the rise of populism. In the Financial Daily, this is summarised as: it is the debt of the banks. Now I do believe that the financial crisis, which is wider than the banks, has had an enormous disruptive effect in Europe, but also in the USA, in terms of the existence of many people in the areas of pensions, home homes, job security and so on. But through this and beyond, there is, of course, a much longer trend towards globalisation, in which people lose their jobs or have less security. Migration is part of that. Yes, there are several aspects. In NRC Handelsblad I also said that the great steps that have been taken in Europe with European integration have been accompanied by risks. It also includes the launch of monetary union. In retrospect, we should have put it much more firmly, for example by regulating the banks immediately, for example by making the budgetary frame work much stronger immediately. This enlargement, deepening and broadening of the EU has taken such great steps that it has taken real risks. If you are to establish Schengen and remove internal borders, you must all secure the external borders. If you don't, you'll have the migration crisis as we saw it in 2015. Those kinds of risks have really been taken. Yes, I think that has contributed to much discontent among our populations. Mr Van Klaveren asked a question about the Matheo Solution by André ten Dam. In fact, that is the return to a European Monetary System, in which countries may have their own currency or unit of account, but you also have a euro, which in particular becomes a unit of account to convert from one currency to another. I don't see any major benefits of that. In a short time, 23 speculations have been made by the financial market to change or destroy it. This has not brought stability, and I do not see how it would help us. Mr Merkies asked if I agree with Stiglitz. In his book, Mr Stiglitz has the starting point and the end point that it is the euro's fault. He then puts his reasoning on that. However, this analysis is totally inadequate. I have just mentioned in my speech that the causes of the introduction of the euro have already arisen and have been further strengthened. The process of convergence has actually been disrupted by the low interest rate environment and by poor national policies in the years after. If I could go back to that time now, would I have introduced the euro? Yes, but instantly much stronger and as a more stable currency. Even then, national Member States should have done what they said to each other at the time, namely: we will have to gradually overcome economic differences with structural reforms, we will all have to become more competitive and the process of convergence must continue. Was that assumption, that process of convergence, wishful thinking? I believe that this is the term used by Mrs Schouten. The World Bank once wrote a report during that period, in which the bank called the European Union a convergence machine. That was also proven to be true. Every time countries joined the European Union, they saw enormous prosperity there. This happened in Spain and Portugal after accession to the European Union. As a result and, of course, thanks to the structural funds that helped them, the economy in these countries has developed enormously and prosperity has risen rapidly. The same applies to Central and Eastern Europe. Following accession to the Union, there was a huge process of convergence towards a higher level of prosperity and economic development. So the European Union did indeed have that promise and it has fulfilled it for many countries. The euro has not made this process impossible in itself, but national Member States have thought: from now on we have cheap money, we do not have to make such a great effort. This was made possible by the financial markets first and then severely punished. Is there a plan B? That's a question I hear a lot. My plan A and plan B is to make sure that the Eurozone works better and that the Netherlands is at the forefront of it. At the moment, that's pretty nice. That's my plan A and plan B. I do not think I need to respond to the plea for parliamentary surveys. That was addressed to the Chamber. The request concerning the Council of State is also addressed to the Chamber. Just for your information, I would like to inform you that the Scientific Council for Government Policy is in the process of examining European public tasks. This is also about the further development of the European Union and monetary union. In addition, an investigation is under way at the International Affairs Advisory Council. They will present a report on governance, i.e. governance and the functioning of monetary union. So these pieces are in preparation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u94	When I hear the Minister, I get the impression that he says: everything is actually fine, go to sleep well, because everything went well and we have assessed the risks well. It is strange, then, that what the Minister said about interest rates has happened. One could indeed borrow at much too low interest rates and could pump himself completely full of debts. I'd think that risk wasn't properly assessed. Many other risks may have been identified, but that does not mean that they have been properly assessed. Doesn't the Minister make the same mistake as at the time by closing his eyes on certain issues? That's why I was talking about a plan B. Shouldn't you think about it? The minister's gonna put it away real easy right now. But shouldn't you think about the scenario that can just happen? It may happen that a country steps out of the euro, perhaps a large country. You have to be prepared for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u95	In the first part of his speech, Mr Merkies says that I am throwing away the risks. I'm not gonna do that. I think we fundamentally disagree on whether the problems of recent years have been caused by the euro. I really disagree fundamentally with that. There is also a great deal of talk about the risks of entering into monetary union and having a single currency in the 1980s and 1990s. Absolutely. One thing, as I see it, no one had actually predicted and expected, and that is indeed that low interest rate. It was expected that those countries which are still in a bad position and which still have adjustments to make would be disciplined or forced by the financial markets. If you don't, you pay a higher interest rate. Despite the fact that the Treaty explicitly stated that "we do not guarantee each other's debts', in other words, each country is itself responsible for a net fiscal policy. The financial markets thought: from now on, it is actually one country; it is not just one currency, but it is also one country, and so we can lend very cheap money to countries, even if it is bad for them, because Germany will pay the bill. The financial market came back from that assumption, but it was already a crisis. That strengthened the crisis. That was after the banks collapsed. Mr Merkies has therefore misunderstood me; no one has foreseen that risk. I did not find that in the Socialist Party's documents or in pieces of others from that time either. However, this has made it possible for Member States to rest on their laurels, when they should have said in monetary union: we must now get our feet together quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u96	Those Member States had to deal with falling revenues because their exports also fell back.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u97	That didn't happen until after.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u98	That has, of course, been a gradual process. Those countries do suffer from this, because of the expensive euro. The Minister and I disagree on this. We're both doing a different analysis, just like a lot of others are doing another analysis. That is precisely why it is so good to look back at this moment. The Minister can say: we knew all the risks. I think, however, that an independent committee might think differently after thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u99	That's up to the Chamber. I have no further idea. Again, I'm not saying we knew all the risks. A lot of risks have been discussed. There are safeguards in the treaty. Of course, there were also assumptions that didn't come true. One of the reasons why they didn't come out was that the financial markets suddenly thought: all these countries have that in order and they guarantee each other; you can all borrow cheaply. This has led to a very high risk, which was indeed not foreseen. Was that the euro's fault? No, not at all, because the euro was also intended to bring monetary stability. National Member States should have dealt with this much stricter and more prudently.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u100	The last one contains the crux, because it doesn't. Precisely this convergence was the underlying carrier of the whole euro project, on which it was based. We were gonna grow closer together. We'd be more like each other economically. It hasn't happened and it's still not happening to a sufficient extent. Where is the wishful thinking, let me use that word again from the Minister based on it? What does he base the idea that this is actually going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u101	That's an interesting point. At the time of the debate on the introduction of the euro, Germany was not at all such a strong country economically. Germany was spoken of as "the sick man of Europe." In Germany, a number of reforms have been introduced which have led to the country becoming much more competitive. These reforms are also just about controlling wage costs. This is always a crucial factor in whether you can compete economically with other industrialised countries. Germany did. At the same time, the opposite happened in Spain. Spain was competitive because labour costs were still relatively low there, especially compared to Germany. Because of that credit bubble, which created a huge real estate bubble, the construction sector literally jumped out of the ground, the wages increased enormously at the same time. What's this gonna teach us? If you take measures that strengthen your competitive position, or, reflectively, if you let economic sectors get completely out of control and take risks, then all this can be influenced by national policies. So if countries have already thought 'we are now in a monetary union; from now on our food has been bought' I fear that this is the case for some countries, then they have made a great mistake of thinking. That's what Germany showed with its Hartz reforms. This showed the lack of reform, the opposite, in Spain after the introduction of the euro. In recent years, Spain has again implemented major reforms, in the pension system, in the budget and in the labour market. Spain is now very competitive again. It has created a trade surplus for several years. The same applies to Ireland and other countries. Some countries will still have to take steps to restore a healthy economy. The problem does not come primarily from Brussels, and the solution does not come primarily from Brussels. Anyone who tells themselves that... There are a number of people here today who say: the problem comes from Brussels; it is the euro. Others, sometimes in southern Europe, think: the solution, my help, my salvation comes from Brussels. Both are a big mistake of thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u102	I said that the problem was that we were going to join countries that were economically hugely apart, that were out of step with each other. It was thought that all of this would come together. Over the past four years, we have had almost weekly debates with this Minister on countries that have not complied with the agreements. We had made these agreements among ourselves to ensure that these reforms would come about, that countries would ensure that their labour markets would be put in order. It's still not happening. Hence my question: does the Minister really believe that one day we will all be about equal in terms of economic development, in terms of labour market, in terms of reforms, that we are alike?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u103	We don't have to; we shouldn't want to. Within countries, too, there are major economic differences between regions. Even in a small country like the Netherlands, it really matters whether you are talking about economic development in Noordoost-Groningen or Amsterdam. This is even more the case in Italy. Northern Italy is one of the most prosperous regions of Europe, and southern Italy is a less developed, less prosperous region. The question is whether you can manage it, if you can carry it, within countries and between countries. When financial markets say: I simply no longer have faith in the country, in the economy, and especially in a country's policies, a country goes bankrupt. That's what we saw in the crisis. Then we came to the aid of countries. If the financial market does not finance, we are prepared to do so, but then we need to reform. Mrs Schouten says none of that happened. I really don't agree with that. I am aware that Greece is very difficult. This also takes me hours and hours, but most of the programme countries Spain, Portugal, Ireland and Cyprus have done extremely well. Cyprus was really bankrupt, had a very large banking sector and was about to collapse. There we have intervened hard and Cyprus was out of the program within a few years, has a portable public debt and has good economic growth again. Spain is at the forefront of economic growth. Ireland is going very well again. So there are countries that show exactly what I am saying here: if you take the right measures yourself and if you put your affairs in order, both within the government and within the economy, there is no reason why you could not have a prosperous future within a monetary union. That requires discipline from countries. The help and the rescue do not come from outside in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u104	Mrs. Schouten, your second interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u105	I will end my interruption with this, so I have no further question. Some of the financial markets were right, because we vouched for each other. We started setting up the ESM and we met countries that were in financial trouble. Those countries themselves know that. So the big question is: if we really want to keep doing this, should we not really let the no-bail-out clause go back to work and take it as a starting point again?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u106	Yeah, the no-bail-out clause just still exists. We do not take over each other's debts; that is the no-bail-out clause. We have indeed created the ESM in the crisis, with which we lend money to countries. That doesn't mean you're taking over the debt; you're borrowing money to countries. I can tell you that the enthusiasm in the Eurogroup for debt cancellation is decreasing rather than increasing. The image that only Germany and the Netherlands are against debt forgiveness and that other countries are for that is completely wrong. The overwhelming majority of the euro group, including southern European countries, says that this principle must be maintained and that we are not just going to call off debts; this is a reassurance. As regards the ECB's policy, the mandate is clear. We have a lively debate with Mr Omtzig on whether what the ECB is doing now fits fully within that mandate. We'll talk about that later. This mandate covers the whole of the euro area and the ECB is pursuing policies there. That policy is very exceptional, but it is not. The same policy has already been pursued and is being pursued in the United States, Japan, the United Kingdom, the Scandinavian countries and Switzerland. So all countries are currently pursuing a generous monetary policy. As a result, interest rates are low, but the main reasons for this are macroeconomic developments and demographic developments. Interest rates have been falling structurally for 20 years. The debate on this subject will be extended to include Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u107	Are you going to continue, or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u108	I'm pretty much through it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u109	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. I see that there is a need for a second term. I give the floor to Mr Van Klaveren.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr. Chairman. I have already said in the first term that the Eurodebacle is certainly a reason for us to conduct a parliamentary survey. We reiterate our wholehearted support for the initiative and thank the initiators once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u111	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. I wonder what the gloom of a number of parties is about conducting a parliamentary survey. What are they worried about? Are they afraid of opening a cesspool, or do they already know all the answers? The parliamentary inquiry on the credit crisis has also been opposed for a long time: we knew everything, didn't we? But in the end, that parliamentary survey was done. That's a good thing, because this one has produced a lot of useful things. This will also be the case: there will be a parliamentary survey. I'd rather be here today than later. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that there is insufficient understanding of the extent to which directors, politicians and policy makers were aware of the consequences of the introduction of the euro, the associated risks and the consequences for the transfer of sovereignty;]] [[Whereas the causes of the euro crisis should be understood as fully as possible in order to avoid future crises as far as possible;]] [[calls on the Bureau to launch a parliamentary inquiry into the introduction of the euro,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Merkies, Schouten, Dijkgraaf and Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34387-3]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u112	Mr. Chairman. I thank the government for the answer that came to me through an associate. Right now, we're having a hearing on the Brexit. I organised this together with the co-rapporteur Marit Maij of the Labour Party to investigate this relationship. When you invite people, it's not very nice not to show up on your own. I apologize to the proposers for that. I am aware that two investigations are being carried out and the Minister referred to them. For the examination by the International Affairs Advisory Council, it is explicitly requested to remain within the terms of the current Convention. I understand that, but I note that we are not even maintaining the current treaty at the moment. I noted in my first term that Sweden and Bulgaria should immediately become members of European Monetary Union if we were to maintain the Treaty. So I don't mind if they look out there, too. The second reason why I would also like to ask the Council of State for an opinion is because, under the new pact, he is the Dutch controller of compliance with European budgetary rules and has special staff for that purpose. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the decision on the introduction of the euro has been taken with a view to ensuring the stability, reliability and resilience of the euro;]] [[whereas these agreements are not always complied with, with all the problems for the euro area;]] [[Whereas enforcement of the various agreements has proved difficult and that enforcement is the basis for a more stable euro area;]] [[the Council of State, which is also the Dutch auditor of compliance with the European budgetary rules, decides to ask for information on the possibilities for improving the enforcement of the various agreements under the Maastricht Treaty and subsequent EU treaties, including the Stability and Growth Pact, thereby identifying the pros and cons of different political and institutional options for the future of the euro,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34387-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u113	Mr. Chairman. I don't have to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u114	That is true, because both motions are addressed to the Chamber. The Minister does not have to give an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-02-01-tweedekamer-6.u115	I would like to thank the initiators, Mr Baudet and Mr Hiddema, for the citizens' initiative. I wish them good luck. I would like to thank those present in the gallery and those who have followed this debate through another medium for their interest.
