ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u1	I welcome the Minister of Security and Justice for a brief report, it seems, of a written consultation on the response to the Justice for Johan petition. One speaker has signed up, and that is Mrs Bergkamp. She has two minutes' speaking time, including the tabling of any motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u2	Mr. Chairman. The case of Johan van Laarhoven is a special case, which has not yet been mentioned. The National Ombudsman is investigating the role of the government to see if it has been proper. I have my doubts about that. Now the most important thing is that the law and the treaty do their job. Since, as far as I am concerned, nothing is taken for granted in this case, I shall table the next motion, signed by a large number of colleagues. It's a long motion, but I'm the only speaker. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Johan van Laarhoven in Thailand was sentenced to years of imprisonment for money laundering;]] [[noting that detention conditions in Thailand are appalling;]] [[noting that the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office is considering prosecuting Van Laarhoven in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that a civil case is pending in which the judge-supervisor has ordered Van Laarhoven to be heard in the Netherlands;]] [[noting that Van Laarhoven is not directly able to defend himself in the Netherlands because of his Thai detention;]] [[noting that Thailand and the Netherlands have a treaty relationship with respect to the Law on Transfer Enforcement of Criminal Judgments (Wots), which may provide for the transfer of Dutch detainees after four years of detention in Thailand to the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas in July 2018 that four-year period expired for Van Laarhoven;]] [[Whereas (diplomatic) preparations should be made in good time for shipments under this WOTS Convention;]] [[calls on the government to make efforts to make all (diplomatic) preparations as soon as possible, as soon as his sentence in Thailand is irrevocable, to enable Van Laarhoven to be transferred to the Netherlands by July 2018 or as much earlier as possible, and to inform the Chamber on this at relevant times, for example in the unexpected situation that Van Laarhoven will not be able to come to the Netherlands in July 2018,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Krol, Mr Kuik, Mr Buitenweg, Mr Thieme and Mr Azarkan.]] [[She's getting No. kst-3010-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u3	I have two questions. I hear Mrs Bergkamp talking about diplomatic preparations and a diplomatic commitment on the part of the Dutch Government, specifically for this case. What does Mrs Bergkamp mean by that? My other question is: to what extent does she intend to make a difference between this Dutch person who is detained abroad and perhaps many more Dutch people who are detained abroad in rather miserable circumstances?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u4	That's two questions. In my motion I ask the government to make (diplomatic) preparations. So that is wider than just the diplomatic preparations. To execute such a WOTS, you need to be in order, contact the Thai government and have contact with the judge. So it's gonna take a few steps. That is why I call on the Minister to make the preparations in good time. In addition, the Wots of course entails a number of conditions, for example that Jan van Laarhoven's punishment in Thailand must be irrevocable. That is also what I indicated in my motion. Mr Van Oosten asks why we are at the top of this matter. Of course, there are other people who are in terrible conditions. I also think that, diplomatically speaking, we should work for me there. But this is a very special case. I would point out that, as a party, we have had to ask several written questions in order to get the bottom line. It took us a very long time to get any information at all. I refer to the fact that the National Ombudsman is investigating. He's done a preliminary investigation. That makes this case special, and that is why I am tabling this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u5	A final question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u6	I am familiar with Mrs Bergkamp's commitment. I don't care about that either. But I don't quite understand something. That WOTS Convention applies in principle to any Dutch person who is detained in the relevant Contracting State. This creates opportunities for the government to make an effort or not. I'm looking for the answer to the next question. To what extent does Mrs Bergkamp want more to be done in a specific case, other than what is actually the result of the law? Or is it consistent with that and is it in fact nothing more than what should normally be required of the government, given that that treaty has been concluded?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u7	I have already said in my introduction that this is, of course, a very special matter. I would point out how the trial went down, with the request for legal aid. The Dutch government played a role in this, because that request for legal aid condemned Mr Van Laarhoven in Thailand. The Dutch government therefore had a specific role in this. That is why I think it is important to table this motion in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u8	That's clear. I give the floor to the Minister for Security and Justice to give this motion an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u9	Mr. Chairman. I will cut my judgment on the motion in half and start with the part I sympathize with. As Mrs Bergkamp rightly points out, there is a treaty between the Netherlands and Thailand allowing convicted persons to apply to serve their sentence in the Netherlands. That is what is required, and so is the case in this case too, where the sentenced person himself requests a transfer. For this, the foreign penalty must first be irrevocable. Furthermore, the country of conviction must be prepared to hand over its implementation. So in this case too, the convicted person will have to inform the Dutch embassy in Bangkok in writing that he wants to be eligible for transfer to the Netherlands and that he will not use further remedies in Thailand. At that time, the Netherlands can initiate a procedure. Before the conviction is irrevocable, a WOTS journey is not possible. That's the part of the motion I'm sympathetic to. If such a request reaches us, it will be dealt with swiftly by my ministry. As Mr Van Oosten rightly pointed out, this is not only true in this case but in general when Dutch convicts abroad use the opportunity to serve the sentence in the Netherlands. However, I must be critical of a number of considerations of this motion. I'm really doing that on state-of-the-art grounds. I say this with some emphasis, because I know how much D66 and other signatories to this motion are attached to the pure operation of the rule of law. The motion contains considerations relating to a pending court case in the Netherlands. Under the rule of law, minister and chamber must exercise extreme restraint in an ongoing trial. The motion states, for example, that the Dutch Ministry is considering prosecuting Van Laarhoven in the Netherlands. In the meantime, the state of play has developed a little further. Last Friday, the Public Prosecutor's Office issued a subpoena concerning Mr Van Laarhoven, in connection with fraud, money laundering, scams and participation in a criminal organisation. We are therefore in a situation of an ongoing trial, in which it is then up to the judge to rule on it independently. A motion referring to an ongoing trial cannot therefore receive the support of a minister of security and justice. I can answer Mrs Bergkamp and the other petitioners if they formulate the motion in such a way that all references to pending court cases go out and are asked in the operative part to give the convicted person all the possibilities that the law gives rise to. Then I can embrace her. I can't do that this way. I really don't think that's legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u10	I'm just trying to think along with the Minister. I can imagine taking out the third and fourth observation: 'noting that the Dutch Public Prosecutor's Office is considering prosecuting Van Laarhoven in the Netherlands' and 'noting that a civil case is pending'. If I take out those two observations, the references to that case will be out. By the way, the Public Prosecutor's Office has been threatening this case for years. When it comes to the operative part, I ask the Minister to make the preparations as soon as possible, of course, if the conditions of the Wots are met. So I wonder if the Minister means that the operative part is wrong. I ask him to do everything possible as soon as possible if the conditions of the Wots are met, so if Mr Van Laarhoven himself indicates that he wants to go to the Netherlands and if his sentence in Thailand is irrevocable. If I interpret it that way, can the Minister live with this motion? In fact, can the Minister take over this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u11	There is another observation with which the motion is moving on the path of the judge. That is the conclusion that Van Laarhoven is not directly able to defend himself in the Netherlands because of his Thai detention. That's something the lawyer should argue in court. It's something that doesn't suit Chamber and Secretary of State. The operative part states: "The government requests that all (diplomatic) preparations be made as soon as possible, once the sentence in Thailand is irrevocable, to enable Van Laarhoven to appeal to the WOTS (...)." That part can, but "by the end of July" is partly in the hands of the gentleman himself, but also partly in the hands of the Dutch judge who will assess such a request. So I can accept the effort, but where reference is made to a hard date, I am back in the area of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u12	Just a little more concrete. The Minister's request is to delete, in addition to the third and fourth observations, the fifth observation, as well as the part of the operative part which says "by July 2018 at the latest or as much earlier as possible'. In that case, it is a positive opinion. Otherwise, the Minister would advise against this motion on formal grounds. Can Mrs Bergkamp state whether this gives her reason to amend the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u13	Two more things, though. I can imagine taking that one observation out too. Then all references are gone; there is a point the Minister has made. Indeed, the operative part states "by July 2018 at the latest or as much earlier as possible." I realize the Minister is also dependent on the Thai government and the judge. That's why the words "if possible" are there. I would therefore ask the Minister, when I give this interpretation to it, because that is also part of the motion, knowing that the Minister cannot influence everything, and knowing that this is dependent on the Thai government and the judge to make every effort to make the preparations. Let us mention a specific date, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u14	In doing so, Mrs Bergkamp is entering the legal maze in which Chamber and Minister should not end up. There's gonna be a trial later. The lawyer's probably listening right now. He's gonna want to use these statements in court. Again, that is why we must be as cautious as possible. If there are dates mentioned here, it will be said before you know it: the Minister has or the Chamber has determined this. We shouldn't go on that path at all. This gentleman convicted in Thailand is entitled to the possibilities offered by the law, like others who have been convicted abroad. I will also make every effort to do so. Furthermore, we must keep our distance from the individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u15	Mrs Bergkamp, the Minister is persisting and I want to end this VSO in a moment. That is why I ask you whether you will change the motion or consider it. The Minister shall advise against the motion if this part of the operative part continues to be part of the motion, otherwise he shall leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u16	I take this opportunity to say a few more words about it. I'm really trying to think along but I'm also trying to take a step, because otherwise we're gonna be in front of the stage. I can imagine that he will be transferred to the Netherlands by appealing to the Wots and the Chamber will be informed at relevant times, for example in the unexpected situation that Van Laarhoven will not be able to come to the Netherlands in July 2018. That's what I keep in mind. Then I'll take out the data. I would like to say to the Minister: if that date is not feasible, I expect the Minister to inform us in good time of the reasons why July 2018 is not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u17	Can the Minister undertake to do so? It's a question of a commitment. It is not part of the motion but it is part of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u18	I can provide that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u19	I see there's still a lot of emotion. I will give one last chance to Mrs Bergkamp and then to Mr Van Oosten. Then we close the debate as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u20	Thank you very much for this opportunity. I appreciate that very much. We'll get the data out. We'll keep the information in there. We'd like to keep it "as soon as possible." So I'm adjusting the motion as discussed. I take out the observations and the dates with the exception of the information and I make them 'as soon as possible'. I think that I am very much moving towards the Minister. I therefore hope that he will be able to take over this wide-ranging motion in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u21	There's a new motion coming up now. I think it is right that I should reply in writing on the basis of the text, but I indicated where we could find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u22	This gives rise to a final question from Mr Van Oosten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u23	A motion is being proposed. It is commented on by the Minister and then adapted on various sides during this VSO. I would also like to be able to take a good vote to my group. I'm stuck with a very important point. I have just put that question to Mrs Bergkamp, but I am now doing so in the direction of the Minister. Surely one Dutch person who is detained abroad in appalling circumstances cannot expect a different commitment from the Dutch government than the other Dutch people who have been detained abroad? Then we'd make a distinction, which I can't explain properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u24	Thank you. A brief response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u25	Mr Van Oosten is right. That was also the reason why I indicated that the instruments apply to all Dutch prisoners abroad, but I would like to promise to use them vigorously in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u26	I certainly do not need to explain to the Minister and to the other parties that this is a very special matter and that there are reasonable grounds for establishing that the Netherlands has a special responsibility in this matter. Of course, the rules apply to everything and everyone. There hasn't been any changes to the motion. Three observations have been taken out: the third, the fourth and the fifth. In the operative part, the words "by July 2018 at the latest or as much earlier as possible' shall be amended to "as soon as possible'. I think the changes are now crystal clear. Now that this motion is so clear and meets exactly what the Minister is asking, I ask him if he can now take over this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u27	I don't understand. I have indicated that I think it would be wise to put it on paper for a moment, that I would be inclined to give a positive opinion, but I would like to see the final motion for a resolution before me. That seems normal to me in the traffic between the Chamber and the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-07-04-tweedekamer-28.u28	Thank you. The Minister indicated, in consultation with the first petitioner, how the flag hangs. There's gonna be a new motion and it's gonna stop by. The vote on this motion is scheduled for next Thursday, unless it is decided to postpone it to another time.
