ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the budget for Infrastructure and Water State. A warm word of welcome to the Minister and the Secretary of State. I'm glad you're here. We have as many as 16 participants in this debate. A number of groups have been sent more people. Today we are doing the term of the Chamber. I propose to limit the number of interruptions to three per group. We are also doing two-way interruptions. I hope that everyone will also speak through the President, because that has occasionally gone out a little bit. This is how it's gonna be okay. Tomorrow we'll do part two. Then we're gonna listen to the two rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the Group of the Party for Freedom, as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. He has ten minutes' speaking time in the first period. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This cabinet will invest 2 billion extra over the next three years to catch up on infrastructure, according to the government agreement. "A catch-up." That's a bit mildly put. Because where the Rutte II cabinet wanted to build bridges, the money crane to build bridges and roads was closed down. A total of 6.4 billion was saved on infrastructure by Rutte II and Kunduz. 6.4 billion! It's nice to see two billion of that now reversed. But of course that remains insufficient, all the more so because structuralally only 100 million will be added. This, while according to the Mobility Alliance, this will require at least 1 billion. I would like to hear from the Minister why it has not been possible to meet the wishes of this widely supported Mobility Alliance. Mr. Chairman. "The Netherlands is slipping away," headlined De Telegraaf after the publication of the National Market and Capacity Analysis earlier this year. The recently released Mobility Image 2017 shows an even worse picture if possible, namely that the travel time loss will increase by 28% over the next five years. 28% more files, while already file record after file record is broken; a sad prospect. All the more so because congestion is already causing 3.7 billion dollars in damage to our economy. So this is only gonna get worse. In order to limit this as much as possible in the short term, it is therefore necessary, in addition to additional money for infrastructure, to make sensible choices instead of symbolic politics. The freight tax is the most striking example of such a symbolic measure. It is interpreted as a measure to reduce congestion, but it is simply an ordinary increase in charges that is passed on to all citizens and businesses through the transport sector. Of course, the PVV would also prefer to see the bulk of goods transport by rail or inland waterway settled. But the reality is that about 70% of freight transport is by road. And that doesn't change anything in the next ten to twenty years, as the NMCA shows. That is simply because there is no alternative for the vast majority of road transport, unless this cabinet intends to build a freight line through each village, or unless, thanks to the global warming, half of the Netherlands will soon be under water and we can supply our inner cities with ships. It is clear that the first point that the PVV wants to give this new minister and secretary of state is to base their policies and choices on facts and figures, and not to get bogged down in symbolic politics. First of all, as far as the PVV is concerned, we should look at the distribution of infrastructure expenditure. This distribution is based on a kind of hand-clap polder model to keep as many parties satisfied as possible. But she doesn't match reality. As far as PVV is concerned, it would be much more real and fair to distribute the infrastructure resources available on the basis of the mobility needs of the Dutch population. And whether we like it or not, that's still the car. This is demonstrated by the 2017 Mobility Image. In fact, especially among older people, the number of car kilometres travelled has increased by 63% over the last ten years. And so, with our ageing society, it is likely that car use will continue to increase in the coming years. In short, it is high time to adapt the distribution of available infrastructure resources to the mobility needs of the Dutch population. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. In addition to dealing more wisely with the available resources, we should also use the available asphalt more wisely, as far as the PVV is concerned, so as to make better use of it. The PVV also has two constructive proposals here. Firstly, there must be an end to the mess of different speed regimes on our main road network. Currently there are no less than six different regimes: 130, variable 120/130, variable 100/130, 120 and so on. It's impossible for the driver to follow. The PVV therefore proposes to reduce the number of speed regimes on the main road network from six to two, namely: everywhere 130, except where there is no alternative because of road safety, than 100, for example in the case of busy bottlenecks and ramps and exits. How does the Minister feel about this? Mr. Chairman. Secondly, we have asphalt in the Netherlands that is hardly used, namely the peaks and the plus strips, which are closed most of the day. The PVV calls for them to be upgraded to full lanes as soon as possible. Especially for those on the left, this is a very simple task. I would also like the Minister's response here. Mr. Chairman. Not only is our road network closing down, but also the parking spaces in the border regions in particular are flooded by Eastern European truckers. And not only the parking spaces but also business sites and residential centres are increasingly being used as illegal campsites for Bulgarians and Romanians. In addition, there are other problems in road transport with regard to labour market displacement and cabotage. It will only get worse if that terrible EU mobility package is implemented, all the more so because they know that there is no chance of success and because there is a structural lack of enforcement capacity at the time of the inspection. That is why we have tabled an amendment to make 100 extra fte available to ILT in the short term, which amounts to more than 50% additional capacity. I wonder how the Minister looks at this. Mr President, concluding. The PVV supports the catching-up of this cabinet to repair the damage that Rutte II and the Kunduz agreement have done to our infrastructure. That is not an easy task, because the 6.4 billion in infrastructure cuts are not just being cleaned away. It is therefore essential that the 2 billion of the coalition agreement is spent on the right things and that this cabinet starts working on the various solutions that I have just put forward. If not, Rutte III motorists can once again rely on a future in traffic jams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u4	Thank you. I call Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD Group. Mr Dijkstra has 24 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is a densely populated country with over 17 million people, with many infrastructure such as roads, rail, waterways, airports and ports. And all this in a water-rich delta, which is largely below sea level. The world looks at the Netherlands with admiration. It's beautiful how we've all organized it here next to each other on this little piece of earth. That is certainly not self-evident. This has traditionally been achieved thanks to hard work and good-looking innovations. The Dutch expect that the infrastructure is simply well organised, just from A to B, affordable, reliable, safe, fast and clean. On average, every Dutchman travels 11,000 kilometers a year. All together, that's 187 billion kilometers. I compared it to from here to the sun and then it's 1,250 times to the sun; very far anyway. Not only do we make intensive use of the road together, but also rail traffic grows by 2% every year, and this continues. Aviation is also continuing to grow. Next year, we're going to go to 77,5 million passenger movements, of which Schiphol is responsible for 68 million. So much goes well too. For example, freight transport is in the elevator thanks to a thriving economy and world trade. The Netherlands, Schiphol Airport and the port of Rotterdam benefit. Both mainports are good for about 114,000 jobs each and every one of them! It is worth around 9 billion in value added. Despite the growth in traffic volume, emissions have been reduced and air quality improved. That's good. The Netherlands complies almost everywhere with European air quality standards and is almost close to the strict standards of the World Health Organisation. In the case of nitrogen oxide we are already at 99.98% of the cases, in the case of particulate matter 87%, in the case of ultra-fine dust a lot lower. So we still have problems to solve there. Mr. Chairman. We must also realise that these beautiful images are far away from everyday reality on the road and in public transport. Unfortunately, we end up in traffic a little too often or we are in an overcrowded train, if we can already sit, while transport is just a bitter necessity. We're not in traffic for fun. We're really not stuck in the train for fun either. 'Cause besides being in a bad mood, losing precious time in which you'd rather be with your family. Traffic jams damage our economy and the environment. They are also bad for our jobs, our prosperity and our well-being. Discontent is not only in increasing traffic jams or slow and inflexible public transport. Many drivers also feel like a milk cow from the government. Or they simply lack a serious transport alternative. Many travellers in public transport also feel that they are not getting value for their money. That's not good. People don't want traffic jams, they want safe and smooth roads. People don't want dirty trains. They want fresh trains. They don't want to delay, they want to arrive in time. They want them to be able to just store their bike and that it's still there when they come back. They don't want to have any extra taxes on driving or buy complicated tickets for a bus, tram, metro or train. The VVD wants to tackle and solve problems. I list roads, innovation, innovation in public transport, the importance of mainports, freight transport and I end up with road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u6	A question from Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u7	You've made new friends in the coalition: D66. This morning, we all saw a new toll system passing by as an experiment in Amsterdam, the opacity towards road pricing. You just mentioned the word "milk cow." Is pricing for the VVD negotiable?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u8	In the coalition agreement, we agreed on what we are doing and what we are not doing. The coalition agreement seems very clear to me. There's a Maut in there for trucks. That is not something we have thought of, but perhaps we will discuss it later. I am not going to respond to a proposal from a local D66 group, coincidentally from Amsterdam. We have a coalition agreement here, and I am dealing with the national parties here.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u9	I would like to come back to the freight tax you just mentioned. That freight tax, of course, is an adjustment. Can the VVD guarantee the driver in the Netherlands that the freight tax that is currently being introduced for freight traffic will not apply to the regular driver?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u10	Not for the next three and a half years, because we have a coalition agreement and there is nowhere in it that we are going to tax cars in this respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u11	Now that we have a block of interruptions, I thought: we will do so immediately. The VVD spokesperson said how bad the traffic jams were. Traffic jams are increasingly caused by accidents and accidents are caused to a large extent by appendecides behind the wheel. At least this morning in De Telegraaf, the spokesperson of the VVD had a strong opinion on this. He was talking about taking phones after an accident. I wonder what the VVD thinks of the GroenLink proposal not to wait for an accident to happen, but to see in advance how you can make it possible by technical means that you can use your phone when you call hands-free and when you're on navigation, but that you can't tap anymore. Would the VVD be able to poke to see how you make it technically impossible to get behind the wheel? Less accidents. Less traffic jams. GroenLinks and VVD happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u12	Yes. I do not know exactly what the proposal is, but I certainly want to look at it, because you need a comprehensive package of prevention, enforcement and sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u13	This is certainly on the side of prevention and also of innovation, for which the VVD can often be pushed. But that does mean that as a company, the ANWB, Shell and Gasunie do it as an employer says to your drivers: this is no longer allowed. Or you're going to encourage the insurers to say: if you want to be insured with us, you can't do that anymore. This sometimes does not comply with liberal principles, because then you have to agree that something is no longer allowed in that car and that something is made technically impossible. Would Mr Dijkstra still be able to poke for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u14	I think we should do and-and-and. That can be done with technology that can be maintained. I am also pleased that Mrs Van Tongeren has highlighted the role of insurers, because I recently indicated in an interview that, of course, they will not compensate if it turns out that it is because of smartphone use. So I think it's en-and-and-and-so: prevention, enforcement and sanctioning. I just don't think it's possible for you to get behind the wheel. The VVD thinks that we have also said that you should be able to put that under reckless driving. As well as that now applies to booze and drugs, this is in preparation for appendages in the bill. If you do, the judge can also, after everything has been proven, impose a heavier penalty. It's bad enough as it is, but in the event of recidivism, I think you should never be able to get behind the wheel again and then your driver's license must be taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u15	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u16	I mentioned a number of cubes. I'll start with roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mr. Van Raan, standing there suggesting you'd like to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u18	I'd like to interrupt on the mainport block, but maybe we can wait until...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mainport is my fourth point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u20	Then you'll have a moment to prepare for that interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u21	Please come back. Mr. Chairman. Roads. Let me just say it the way I think it is: investing in tough infrastructure remains very much needed. The VVD is deliberately saying that in this Chamber. The expected growth in road traffic until 2022 is only partially absorbed by the extension of the road network. As a result, the loss of travel time can increase by 28% compared to 2016. So in six years we go to almost 30% more travel time loss. The social costs of congestion and delays on the main roads alone are between EUR 2.8 billion and EUR 3.7 billion. It's a shame. And then I haven't even counted the secondary roads yet. I'm really freaked out. The VVD wants to continue the construction and widening of roads. That's what it takes. Fortunately, in recent years there have been significant steps to keep the Netherlands more accessible, but we must continue to do so. That's gotta improve. I come to the notation consultation to discuss the details of the multiannual programme Infrastructure, Space and Transport, but I would like to mention here the A4 at Leiden, the A7, the A15, and the routes to the south, east and north of the country. I would like to mention the A1, the A2, the A12, the A28 and the A58, as well as the 200 million national resources that we have made available for Amsterdam, the 200 million for the Rotterdam/The Hague region and the 200 million for the East freight corridor. I believe that this has made good choices in the coalition agreement. We need to get to work fast. And the beauty of it is that we now have the money for that too. Because creating infra just takes a long time and is complicated. A good choice has also been made with the missing links, partly from the previous coalition agreement, such as the extended A15, the connection A13/A16 at Rotterdam, the Blankenburg tunnel and the Utrecht ring. I realize it's taking a long time, so I also want to take quick wins for the short term and take steps to get these long-term projects going. Mr. Chairman. My core message is to reduce asphalt work and traffic jams. The file sample shall be reduced by a cup. How does the Minister see that? What is she going to do to bring that traffic monster, which hangs like a blanket all over the Netherlands, with all kinds of tentacles and ugly heads to all those roads, a big defeat? I realize we can't completely rule out delays. I can't go around the country uninhibited with an asphalt roller, but it's always better. We need to narrow down that file monster. Of course it's also a combination. A combination of asphalt and smart solutions. That combination is essential, as is a better O.V.; I'm about to come up with that. Also according to the ANWB, the fileswaart rises strongly. They say: with decent numbers up to 70% by 2030. That's not acceptable. The Netherlands must not stand still. The people who are in traffic every day know why I am emphasising this here. That is why I am also pleased that the VVD, together with the other parties, has made additional funding available for infrastructure through the coalition agreement. This money is distributed according to a distribution key between roads, railways and waterways. This is also done in consultation with municipalities and provinces. We have to make agreements with them to tackle the underlying road network too, because 60% of the delays are there. A good connection between state roads and provincial and municipal roads is therefore essential. I've prepared a motion to tackle the file sample. I think it's a nice frame: such an ugly thing above the country, as we saw last Monday and Tuesday. Everyone's standing still. That's really not funny. Let's work with each other to keep reducing traffic pressure and fileswaart continuously. As far as we are concerned, the bottlenecks I mentioned in the coalition agreement, the congestion top 50, which we all know, and the national market and capacity analysis are decisive. At least they deserve priority. But there's more. Think of innovation, new developments such as the self-driving car or the self-driving car. Think of cleaner transport, for example in the form of the hyperloop. That's an innovative concept, a kind of air-empty tube, where you could be transported very quickly. That deserves a lot of work and support, especially in the early stages. The VVD wants the hyperloop to be taken seriously and the possibilities investigated. I would like to see a large pilot that is backed by government-wide support, with, of course, attention to private funding, but also with intensive cooperation between knowledge institutions, European funds and own investment funds. It's a matter of taking chances and sticking your neck out. If there's a place to go, it's in the Netherlands. The VVD together with other parties will present a motion on this, because innovation begins in the polder. In order to defeat the file sample, it is also wise to remove obstacles in existing legislation. The current legislation cannot stand in the way of developments. With digital data there can already be a lot. The possibilities are huge. Car manufacturers make their product range more sustainable. The e-car, the electric car, and the ICT car are coming in. Hydrogen's on its way. Self-driving and self-driving becomes the future, with more ease and safety. It is not a question of whether, but of when. Clean, self-driving cars will also be an energy source at standstill. This is also good for the inner cities, which benefit from cleaner air. The VVD does want people to be able to choose for themselves whether they drive a car and if so, in which car they drive. With a more level playing field between fuels and new, affordable models, consumers can simply choose. I don't care if that's for a regular, fuel-efficient diesel, a clean petrol car, an electric car, or a hydrogen-powered car right away. At least the world of mobility is changing considerably. The VVD sees this as an opportunity for the Netherlands. It is an opportunity to make our knowledge and skills checkout and to use innovation in business together with universities for better accessibility. This requires more experimental space and cooperation between entrepreneurs, government and education. We need to explore new opportunities to achieve a smarter and more sustainable transport together. I think the Eindhoven region is quite a shining example of this. In addition to all the high-tech, it is necessary to be able to continue driving. In Nijmegen I see a very nice low-tech example. Higher vocational education institutions start there fifteen minutes earlier than the university. This approach is low-tech, but extremely effective. 22,000 students travel across rush hour. Mr. Chairman. In the context of our fight against the congestion monster, the VVD wants to see better use of the peak lanes. I therefore also call for greater safety through signage, matrix boards, and faster recovery in the event of accidents. An old colleague of mine e-mailed me. I haven't seen or talked to him in 15 years, but he knew where to find me. He travels to Utrecht every day. He was on the A27 at Utrecht. It was 8:15 in the morning and there was a truck with a flat tire. That can happen of course, but he actually said: that is a bit the fault of that driver, because he should not go with such bad tires on his way. There was a service car at work, secured by red crosses and a dart. The traffic was now up to Hilversum. He wrote to me: "Someone who doesn't check his tires will be helped immediately, but the thousands of drivers who waited until Hilversum didn't. Why are they getting hurt? Why don't you go help a driver like that after rush hour?" I'd like to get a response from the Minister. What would be the possibility of putting someone like that aside for a while? Mr. Chairman. Then I come to innovation in public transport. Fortunately, that world doesn't stand still at all. You plan your trip through a personal travel planner and based on your own preference. You can currently indicate what is fastest, the cheapest or perhaps the most sustainable. New providers such as Uber and Abel therefore deserve a chance. The VVD wants the available data to be opened up to all mobility providers. Then you can make custom travel advice. The VVD wants to know from the State Secretary whether the company that organises the OV-chipkaart can share much more travel dates. The VVD also believes that all mobility providers should have access to the OV payment market. What does the Secretary of State think about that? Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, we need to finance flows of public transport, especially for the less crowded parts of our country, 'departure', as I believe they call it in jargon. Public transport must be in line with demand. So we're not going to let buses run with hot air anymore, but buses with travelers, who drive when they're needed. Perhaps there are alternatives that are much better, which we are missing now, just because the timetable now sets us a limit of 'you have to do so, because that is what we have agreed'. Let us become more flexible and modern. The VVD also wants more train lines in the region to be separated from the main network and tendered regionally, as stated in the government agreement. Other modes of transport will also become possible as far as possible. Public transport must be more user-friendly and cheaper. I see that Mr Gijs van Dijk is interrupting.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u22	I referred to Mr Dijkstra's speech on uneconomic lines. So what is the solution for all those people in the region, who need to be able to count on a bus coming by at a fixed time so that they know they can go from A to B? I live on Texel myself. It's very nice to know there's a bus driving around. It's not always full, but it's highly appreciated. In the tourist season it is full, perhaps not in the autumn, but I do know: I can come from A to B. So what's a solution? According to the VVD, we have to get rid of these lines, but how are all these people in the region supposed to get from A to B?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u23	Well, I'm not saying you need to get rid of it, but you need to make it more modern and more flexible. Just as you say: driving according to what the question is. Is there a lot of demand in the summer? Drive! Isn't there a question in winter? Do not drive or find alternatives that are smaller, cheaper and more flexible and that also take you from A to B. How you organize it doesn't matter to me. That traveller should be at the centre and not so much a concession that is fixed for so many years and which obliges us to have hot air buses. I don't think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u24	Then I hear two things. On the one hand you may be able to drive smaller vehicles, because those buses are not full. I can follow Mr Dijkstra in that. That makes sense, because that's a waste of all the warm air. On the other hand, the traveller in the region would like to know that he can come from A to B at two o'clock in the summer and in the winter. How does Mr Dijkstra see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u25	I'm from the region myself. I am also regularly in the Achterhoek, where they are very innovative. Then you don't talk about buses anymore, but then there's just a garage company that makes cars available that it does have. Think outside the box! It's about getting from A to B in a way you want: affordable, fast, clean, safe, and so on. How you organize that doesn't matter to me. That could be with volunteers or a car company like that. I live in Lienden myself. You don't think a bus comes by there three times a day, do you? That's about once. So people are used to it. You just have to get from A to B and be reachable, but there are all kinds of conceivable solutions. The solution is really not to let the old-fashioned bus run with 50 passengers, through a region where nobody then boards. That's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u26	I'm starting to feel a little creepy now, too. For us it is very important that this accessibility is there. I would just like to say that this one time a day for a lot of people who depend on it, I am thinking of the elderly and disabled people, because they must be able to rely on public transport being accessible and available. You suggested that they could be volunteers. So you're just gonna get rid of regular jobs? That's really stupid, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u27	It's about getting you from "A" to "B." Such a fixed schedule with fixed times, I think that's been a bit. You can also call a neighborhood bus. Then he comes along, picks you up with six people at once and drives certain times. Please leave it to initiatives from the market and organisations. Please do not record that in that way, because that really is an outdated concept. It's about getting from A to B in a safe way. How you organize that doesn't matter to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u28	Apparently the VVD doesn't care that it "but" happens, and then through the market and then preferably by volunteers, because that is cheap. We are concerned that there is a certainty and that people can rely on it. When you say "we're just gonna cut lines and people have to see it," there's a chicken or egg issue: when it's almost gone, people don't go with it anymore. But with that, you're dumping a very large group. However, I would like to ask the VVD whether they have thought this through and whether they would perhaps reconsider these statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u29	For me, the traveler is central. He has to be able to get from A to B properly. There are all kinds of initiatives that are often more innovative than the old-fashioned thing we know. Let us please give that a chance; that is my plea. Mr. Chairman. I was still at the block about O.V. It needs to be more customer friendly, cheaper and easier. I think a lot is possible if we dare to think a little outside the box. A solution must also be found for the low-performance high-speed line. I refer to Mrs De Boer's three strikes out principle at the time. Where are we now? The traveller needs to get his money's worth. What's the Secretary of State gonna do about it? I'm getting to the mainport block. Then I come to road safety and then I come to a conclusion. The mainport. I just mentioned all the numbers. The role of the mainports Schiphol and Rotterdam deserves constant attention. The VVD stresses the importance of these mainports for e.g. the Netherlands. That's not self-evident. Be careful with it. The mainports give us jobs and make our country very attractive as a country of residence. Does the Minister share our opinion? The same applies to freight transport. We are big in that, but there are a lot of demands on freight transport. Sometimes they're justified, sometimes they go a little far. At least the facilities are left behind. I am looking for some kind of co-financing to get truckers care places, the people who are on the road every day, so that public, but preferably private facilities can be provided right away around the main freight corridors to the east and southeast. May I ask the Minister to look into that? Finally, road safety. Besides extra asphalt, smarter public transport and innovation, road safety remains important, especially with the smartphone in traffic. Everyone grows up on the smartphone. All children have one and use the smartphone on their bike and think that it can also be used in the car. That is not the case. And then we have a 1994 Road Traffic Act that doesn't really take that into account, because then we didn't have any phones in the car. I would like to draw particular attention to the dramatic consequences of appendecides in traffic and behind the wheel. Often it is young, innocent victims who fall because someone had to rap, rather than keep their hands on the wheel. Then a child is killed on a dark road and indescribable suffering is done, in a split second. Nobody wants that. That's why the VVD strives to increase the penalty rate, and that if possible, we rap under reckless driving and thus also legally equate it with other forms of reckless driving, such as driving under the influence of drink or drugs. Apps as motorist or driver just can't. That must be the norm, and we must set that standard in this house. Everyone knows, but it still happens. But if you do, you run a risk. Awareness is therefore urgently needed, as well as prevention. You just have to talk to each other about it: it's just not possible, guys; it's over. Prevention is best, but if there is damage, then the damage is infinitely great and forever. Insurance companies also have a role to play here. I was just talking about that with Mrs. Van Tongeren. For example, they can exclude mobile use and simply do not compensate for damage caused by smartphone use in a major accident. The police, which now controls and detects, especially in the case of serious accidents, must check by default whether there was a smartphone in the game and determine what that means. I would, of course, like this to remain legal. I understand how complicated that is, but that is an assignment I would like to give to the cabinet in the run-up to that new law. Because those responsible for a fatal accident must also be able to be punished effectively and not get away with community service. I therefore also want prevention, targeted enforcement and sanctioning. I want the culprit not to get away with community service, but to get a conditional or unconditional prison sentence. I also want a permanent driving disqualification for recidivists. I'm asking the Cabinet to respond to this. Our asshole approach is being tightened up. We had earlier investigated a progressive penalty system, in which minor offences, such as 53 km/h or 56 km/h, are less punished and serious offences and substantial exceedances heavier. We want this as well as tougher penalties for reckless driving in our earlier plea for traffic enforcement. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. This budget, with this coalition agreement and the new financial resources, is taking a good step towards keeping the Netherlands accessible. Are we done? No, absolutely not, because the traffic jams will continue to grow. So we really need to fight the file monster. Public transport, which we just talked about, can be much more demand-oriented and modern. How exactly, that's what we're gonna talk about. ICT and innovation offer us new opportunities. Let's use it and unlock that data, just for the traveller. I have stressed the logistical employment, the importance of the main ports and finally road safety. It remains extremely important, so let's get to work, or stay in applicable terms: work in progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u30	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Kröger from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u31	Mr. Chairman. I would like to welcome the new Minister and Secretary of State. I really look forward to working with them both over the next few years on this beautiful green wallet. The fact that "environment" has disappeared from the Ministry's name does hurt me, because this ministry remains crucial for the greening of the Netherlands. This is the case, for example, in aviation. Aviation is running hard against the borders of man, the environment and the climate. Schiphol, Lelystad, Rotterdam, Maastricht: everywhere it wrings and sands. Our airspace is full. As a result, it becomes increasingly complicated to fly, leading to more nuisance and safety risks. Moreover, if the fierce growth of aviation continues, we will never achieve our climate goals, according to recent research. We're gonna have to fly less. ProRail's boss made a wonderful call for international train traffic as an alternative to flying within Europe. This is a solution for the climate, but also for the growing hustle and bustle at Schiphol Airport and for our airspace. We would like an investigation into what is needed to achieve more international rail traffic, so that fewer flights are flown. Is the Minister prepared to carry out such an analysis, of the current bottlenecks and of the investments needed for this purpose and to share them with the Chamber? The aviation sector itself wants to grow steadily. The neighbors are braced. The confidence of residents in agreements with Schiphol on reducing the nuisance seems to be reduced to a minimum. Does the Minister care about this? Attempts to silence complaining residents, as in the recently agreed chain bond, will really not help. The paper reality of the sound calculations also undermines people's confidence. All forecasts and reports are based only on calculations. But sound experts really indicate that calculations become much more reliable when you support them and validate them with measurements. Can the noise measurements that are already being made be used for planning, forecasting and air traffic reports? And can the Ministry map out what is needed for an opaque noise measurement network in the Netherlands? I am considering an amendment on this point. It is also incomprehensible to residents that the peak load is not reported. The plane that makes you sit upright in your bed at 5:00 in the morning is not included in the calculations of noise pollution because only averages are used. Can the Minister take an example of countries such as Australia and Germany and see how peak taxes are dealt with there? I'm here for air quality. Ten years ago, the Netherlands should have met the European fine dust standard. Unfortunately, that still hasn't worked out. In the meantime, new scientific research has made it clear that we actually need much stricter standards and the judge has severely challenged the Netherlands. The cabinet has expressed its desire to comply with the much more ambitious WTO standard. This requires a truly ambitious action plan. We are looking forward to this. Many cities want to get started quickly for healthy air: no more dirty diesels or two-stroke mopeds, good on and many bicycle facilities. GroenLinks has a number of specific questions about this. When can the cities consult with you on the new national air quality plan? Will that plan implement the judgment of the judge or the ambition of the WHO standard for really healthy air, for which you also want to work? It was agreed in the Board's agreement on bicycle parking that 560 to 700 million would still be needed until 2030. All stakeholders should contribute to this. How are you going to make sure this actually happens? This year the study on the health effects of ultra-fine dust for residents of Schiphol started. As far as we are concerned, that is a very important research. RIVM has offered to share the results of the measurements in an intermediate report if required. Would you ask RIVM to share this interim report with us next year with the available results? Mr. Chairman. I come to our waste policy and the circular economy. The cabinet ambitions regarding the circular economy are beautiful. But as with climate and air quality policies, of course, what you are going to do is what you are going to do. Over the past few years, the focus has been on waste separation, but for a circular economy, the Secretary of State knows that there is a need for change throughout the chain: more efficient resource use, re-use, recycling and sustainable and energy-efficient production. Compared to what is stated in the government agreement on the climate transition, it is rather lean in terms of the proposed measures for the circular economy. Anyway, I can also interpret it positively, and I would like to do so: there is plenty of room for the Secretary of State to work with the Chamber in the coming years on a truly ambitious plan to shape the circular economy. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that she has a constructive partner on this subject with GroenLinks. As soon as the transition agendas are in place, we need to work on a concrete action plan as soon as possible, with concrete measures. Can the House expect these transition agendas in January? However, my group is concerned that no funds have yet been made available in this budget for the implementation of these transition agendas. Is there a budget for that? And where is that reserved? I am considering an amendment on this point, so please respond. If there is one file on which the new Secretary of State can immediately show that the circular economy is her intention, then it is deposit money. Research and experience from abroad show that deposit money is an extremely effective means of dealing with litter. We therefore expect the Secretary of State to take up the deposit money file with real speed and quickly come forward with a proposal for deposit money on plastic bottles and cans. Finally, I would like to mention an often underexposed aspect of the circular economy: the whole subject of the non-degradable substances. In a truly circular economy, there is no room for persistent substances that accumulate in the environment and in our bodies and are poorly degradable. The whole crisis around Chemours and GenX is a good example, or rather a sad example. Does the Secretary of State agree with me in this analysis? If so, how does it intend to ensure that we phase out these persistent substances? And what deadline do we set for that? Finally. Our environmental policy is as good as it is maintained. This is what we see in the toxic discharges at Chemours and in the noise around Schiphol. We are very concerned about the situation around the ILT. There appears to be the same mistake as the NVWA before, namely cutting capacity under the pretext of more risk-oriented control and efficiency improvement. This is a paper reality. It is essential that the maintenance of our environmental policy is in order. So does this Secretary of State. She made a very nice amendment on this last year as a Member of Parliament. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State if she is prepared to identify the impact of the fact that there is less money for the ILT. What type of inspections are being cut and what are the possible consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u32	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Van Tongeren from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a recent conversation with a group of young people, who were suddenly talking about death and about their chance to die on their own. So I asked once, what do you think, what would that be? They were quite stuffy for murder, and for just riding through a forest or being on the beach at night. It was also said that we are getting warnings about drugs on all sides, because you have a great chance of dying of them. Then I said they were all on the bike, too. No, they all could, because they had a very good insight into that. We're sitting here with traffic spokesmen, so people here might know the answer. I also tried in the group this morning whether people know how many people die in the Netherlands every year from murder, drugs and traffic. In traffic, it was the last time we measured 629, by murder 93 and by drug abuse 150. That scared the hell out of those kids. Is that right? Where'd you get those numbers? Let me see? I showed them that, and then they also saw that 21,000 people are seriously injured in traffic. That's not a bruise or abrasion to the knee. And it's not just a one-time thing, it's every year. One of the things that GroenLinks wants to work on together with this government in the coming period is much more attention to road safety. Because if we all complied 100% with the traffic rules, there would be hardly any deaths. So only by explaining and enforcing traffic rules you don't get there. Several of us have sat with a nice explanation from someone from Sweden about their model. I think there are very attractive things in that. One of those things I was just talking about in an interruption on the VVD. We should not only rely on this reasoning: "We are the good drivers and the others are always the bastards. They make the mistakes, because we do not. And if those bastards stop doing that, nothing will happen." Everyone knows, of course, that it doesn't work that way, because we all make mistakes ourselves. Wouldn't it be much better, for example, to look around the appendectomy what you can do technically to make sure it just can't be done? There are several technical possibilities on the market, which you can use voluntarily, or voluntarily with some support. You can also make sure it can't be done at all. I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to look at this and also whether she would like to start with its own drivers from the Council of Ministers' own pool. There's just a system that can be chosen. The ANWB is doing it, the Gasunie is doing it and Shell is doing it. Several companies are experimenting with this and looking at how we can further introduce it in the Netherlands. In the same vein, I would like to ask the Minister the following. We're talking about new vehicles. The coalition agreement and various spokesmen talk about emission-free and self-driving, but we continue to plan our ways as if nothing is going to change. If we use more of these technical possibilities for safety, you'll have to do something with your road layout. If we have self-driving cars, you could lose a lot more. If we are going to make more use of electric speed bikes, it would be very useful if you get more connections for that. Are these rulers willing to look into that? How do we get from what we're rolling out now?We already have plans up to 2028, all for just standard and more asphalt to a future-proof national road network that fits well with the other transport models? How do we ensure in the future that everyone who goes into traffic in the morning comes home alive in the evening? Then to Sustainable Development Goal 9. I adopted that. Several MPs have adopted Sustainable Development Goals. This is about sustainable infra. Now we have heard from the previous minister a number of adversaries to that effect. I would like to hear what the plans are and what period we can hear about making the road and the use of renewable energy around the road more sustainable. We have heard some plans from the previous Minister and I wonder how this Minister will do it. Then there is another point from the coalition agreement, which must be a mistake. On page 39 it says that the information of the government on traffic and delays and the like will be made available via apps. So we want to discourage the appendectomy on the one hand, and on the other hand, the government intends to communicate more information through apps, so that you know when there are traffic jams, delays and redirects. I'd like a little explanation on that. I am also very curious about the position of D66 on the beautiful possibility of pilots with alternative forms of transport and payment, because a proposal has been made from Amsterdam for this. That proposal is in line with what GroenLinks has already proposed. Perhaps together with D66 we can make a nice first pilot proposal for this. I would also like to know what the rulers think of that. We've asked questions about the finances before. I would like to know what is happening now and how these two govern ments look at that. On my previous points they are already very busy in consultation, I see. You can postpone maintenance, but it still has to be done. Just like painting your house; you can do that later, but it still has to be done. So those costs don't go away. They're still falling somewhere. How are we gonna look at that? I read that, for example, a quarter of the bridges are in urgent need of maintenance. How are we gonna do that? What are the plans for that? I read with joy in the coalition agreement on the Maut. I would like to know when it will come and how it will be implemented. I also read with enthusiasm that from 2030 onwards no new cars will be sold, unless they are emission-free. I'd like it a little sooner, but it's a good thing it's in there. So all that remains to be done is to sell emission-free new cars. But how do you do that? This means that all used cars lose their value immediately. You may have cross-border effects. You have to anticipate that for a long time, because there are rich people with cars, but also people with a narrow scholarship. And those are the ones that generally drive used cars. If you make this decision, they suddenly lose a piece of value. I would also like to receive an answer from the rulers. Over the years, I have always made proposals for innovation. Those proposals were also supported from time to time by the VVD, for example sidewings on trucks, which greatly reduces fuel consumption. We also had some promises from the previous minister. How about those sidewings and that more economical driving trucks? What about the electrical charging in this cabinet's plans? Isn't there going to be a double energy tax on the people who use it? What about the netting control when loading yourself or loading elsewhere? I see that I am almost at the end of my speaking time, so I would like to call on the leaders to look together with GroenLinks and the other groups at a traffic system in which everyone who leaves the door in the morning comes back in the evening. I know that this is a vision high about it, but I want us to strive for it and not accept that 628 people are not coming home every year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u34	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Amhaouch from the CDA group. He is preceded by Mr von Martels, who is going to speak to us for nine minutes. The floor is up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u35	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much. The CDA input will indeed become a co-production. My colleague Mustafa Amhaouch will be responsible for the second part. I am going to talk in particular about two things that are essential to us, namely reducing congestion and increasing road safety. That's the essence. Extra infrastructure for one purpose: traffic control. The coalition agreement gives some air. For years, savings have been made and the infrastructure budget has been cut. Fortunately, this cabinet comes with an extra EUR 2 billion. The real question now is where that money is going. In the coalition agreement all roads are mentioned, such as the A4, the A7 and the A15 in the Randstad and also the A1, the A2, the A12, the A28 and the A58, the roads to and from the south, east and north. We will begin the discussion in the context of the MIRT on 11 December. However, the CDA already wants to send the signal that one aspect is crucial for us, and that is that all the extra money must be at the service of preventing traffic jams. If we don't, we'll be back in the same traffic in no time. We would like to draw the Minister's attention explicitly to the possibilities of combining things smartly. The coalition agreement also frees money for rail, bicycle paths and N-roads, for example. The challenge now is to combine such things. For example, think of a new bicycle path underneath the track on a modified N-road. Then there's road safety. Improving road safety is a continuous process. Mr President, I believe there is an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u36	Yeah, it's been announced before, but now it's really coming. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u37	Does Mr von Martels think the RAI, the BOVAG and the ANWB are crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u38	That's a rhetorical question, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u39	I'd answer it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u40	No, the answer is, of course, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u41	That's good to hear. I agree with Mr von Martels. They say that more asphalt does not help against traffic jams at all. Does Mr von Martels agree that building more asphalt is not the instrument? Does Mr von Martels agree with that non-crazy RAI, non-crazy Bovag and non-crazy ANWB that the only good weapon is driving into the traffic monster?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u42	I've heard a lot of theories about how to solve the file problem. As far as I'm concerned, it's still a combination of factors. One can't do without the other. We'll also need extra asphalt. I'm sure of it. We are convinced of that. And that too is supported by all kinds of scientists who are convinced of it. But I agree with you: I know the theory of these organizations. They are certainly not crazy, but we will have to look at how we can reduce traffic congestion, also in conjunction with all the things they put forward. I really do not have the illusion that we will be completely free of congestion within a number of years, but we must make a contribution to resolving certain nodes by making additional financial resources available for the construction of asphalt.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u43	Mr Laçin, because you have already visited twice, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u44	I am curious, because in the coming years 2 billion will be invested in mobility, what the CDA thinks of the way the money is distributed. According to the old key, a large part of the money goes to asphalt. What does the CDA think of this in the context of an integrated approach to mobility issues?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u45	I am convinced that this cabinet will soon offer comprehensive solutions. Of course, as Members of Parliament, it is up to us to take a critical look at whether this key in the proposal that they are proposing is properly placed. You say it's an old-fashioned key, but I think all things play a role in achieving solutions. Let us then take a critical look at what proposals are being made.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u46	Then I hear Mr von Martels say that the 2 billion is there, because that is a fact, and that we can see together in the Chamber how we are going to distribute the 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u47	Of course we have to take a critical look at that, but that 2 billion is a bonus. There is also 500 million structural. That's what we're gonna look at. I would like to leave the proposals put forward by the directors to the Chamber for assessment, because that is of course very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u48	I hear my colleague from the CDA at a previous interruption saying that building asphalt alone is not the solution; one cannot do without the other and that the organisations that were just mentioned are not crazy with their solution. Do I understand now that the CDA is opening the door for the billing?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u49	Sorry, I didn't get that last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u50	That the CDA is opening the door for the billing now?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u51	No, there's a very clear deal about that billing. The CDA has always been an opponent of that and we certainly do not open the door to that. On the contrary, it stays closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u52	The remark to these organizations, BOVAG, RAI, ANWB, that they are not crazy and that one cannot do without the other, had nothing to do with the charging?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u53	No, not with that. There are, of course, certain limits that you apply as a party. We have already introduced this in the past, and we are sticking to it. Mr. Chairman. Then I will move on to the subject of road safety. Improving road safety is a continuous process, which therefore requires constant work. The previous minister ended with a plan that has not yet been completed: the new Road Safety Strategic Plan 2030. The new cabinet is well aware that road safety should be high on the agenda. This is clearly reflected in the coalition agreement. That doesn't mean it's finished. It is precisely in the area of road safety that we must continue to look at and examine how we can do better. The coalition agreement has a clear mission with regard to road safety. How can this task be carried out, I would ask the Minister, especially when it comes to the safety of the N-roads in the region. I would like to receive a clear overview of the progress made and a mid-term review from the Minister. The measures taken must also work in practice. That is why I ask the Minister to provide structural information to the Chamber. Road users must be able to participate safely in traffic. The situation has deteriorated in recent years. The number of serious road injuries continues to increase and the number of road deaths is also increasing. In 2016, no fewer than 629 people were killed. I think that's what the previous speaker, Mrs Van Tongeren, was talking about. It is an unprecedented number, although in the 1970s and 1980s we were at 3,000 to 4,000 deaths a year. Fortunately, this has improved, but every dead man is too many. More than a third of the road deaths, 231, are car passengers and almost a third are cyclists, 189. The coalition agreement really aims to bring down the number of road victims by realising the manifesto "Transport safety: a national priority," by investing in safe road layout at N-roads, by smart enforcement and better registration of causes, by lighting on highways at night and at night and by a progressive penalty system. The question is whether the Minister will merge these agreements with the new 2030 Strategic Road Safety Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u54	We are both in this Chamber, and I think everyone in this Chamber is in favour of making traffic safer. Now you get more and more cars on the market that have all kinds of smart gadgets to avoid cyclists by themselves, make an emergency stop and keep driving within the lines. But what's happening? In a headline it said: smart car suffers from dumb driver. People don't know these features very well and immediately turn them off. They don't really know how to use it either. They think it's weird the first time and stop. Does your group agree with GroenLinks that drivers should be instructed or informed about these features through dealers or otherwise, so that they are used more? One of the ways to get roads safer is to work on the people's side. The other side is to use the technique properly. Would your group feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u55	Very strong. I also fully support the plea you just made. Following on from my story, I would also like to point out that we see solutions in technical developments and that we must offer them an opportunity. So I say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u56	There's been a program called The New Driving for years. GroenLinks is thinking about new and smart driving, to teach people a more environmentally friendly and technically well supported safe driving style. There used to be some money available for that. Nowadays there isn't any more. Should there be support for Parliament, I would like to come forward with a motion or an amendment in that direction. Of course, I would also like to hear what the rulers think of this. Thanks for the support. Then we'll see if we can get along those roads together.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u57	In that respect, I think we can find each other. If this is the new political enterprise, I fully support it. Mr President, I can move on, I presume? How are the consultation partners involved? What will be the role of the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Freight transport is a transport sector that requires a specific approach. Our picture is that there are unnecessary accidents there, for example if there is not enough room for adjustment on care or pitches. Safe situations are often lacking. Perhaps I will come up with a joint motion on this subject with a fellow coalition party, but you may hear that tomorrow. We need to pay attention to freight traffic. We also want attention for the cyclists. There must be a lot of bike parking places, especially at NS stations, because they are an important link in the transport movements. Fast cycle routes can also help to prevent traffic jams. Living-work traffic with a distance of around 30 kilometers is still often done by car. If there's a quick bike route, more people take the bike. In this respect, I am very much in favour of the vgv. We have the tgv, the train a grande vitesse. I think it would be fantastic if the vélo à grande vitesse in the Netherlands would also make more progress. Maybe there will be more speed bike routes in the future and is the vgv than a concept in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u58	The SP also believes that cycling should be encouraged. When I hear Mr Von Martels like this, I wonder how the CDA could have agreed to an increase in VAT from 6% to 9%, which has a direct impact on the costs of the bicycle maker for repairing a bicycle. How are these things compatible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u59	Could you please explain something to me? I don't quite understand the question, or I didn't hear something.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u60	The CDA stimulates the use of the bike. That's what you just said. On the other hand, however, you agree to a VAT increase of the low rate, from 6% to 9%. This directly affects the bicycle maker and the repair of a bicycle. How are these things compatible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u61	In this respect, we can combine all kinds of issues. I certainly did not expect this question in this context. Let me first tell you how many bicycles have been sold in the past year. Did you know that bicycle sales have fallen dramatically in recent years? A few years ago, 1.3 million bicycles were sold. In the last year, there were only 1 million. Strangely enough, the bike sales are falling back. Back then, we didn't have a VAT increase at all. I would like to say that the subject you are referring to does not really apply today. That 3% doesn't work either. There have been fewer bicycles sold in recent years, but more has been spent on cycling. That has everything to do with the fact that there are more e-bikes on the road. However, the number is falling. The number of kilometres for commuting is still at the same level. That is why we are in favour of releasing money for the bike highways.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u62	I am particularly involved in this; it is a political choice that is being made. I can't get an answer to my question...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u63	I'm still answering it. Eventually goes...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u64	Wait a minute, Mr Laçin is working on his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u65	I can't get an answer to my question, so repeat it. What does the CDA think of the VAT increase, which directly affects the repair of a bicycle at the bicycle maker? I have a second question to ask, because Mr von Martels himself is talking about the decline in the sales of bicycles. Is making the repair of bicycles more expensive than an incentive to sell more bicycles? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u66	No. I merely point out that in recent years, when there was no increase in VAT, there was a decline in the sales of bicycles. It had nothing to do with the purchase price. I therefore regret that you are raising this issue, because this 3% increase in VAT is separate from the fact that I am now putting forward. I am concerned about road safety and the reduction of congestion. I would like to talk to you about the VAT issue, but let us choose another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u67	I want to discuss it with you at any time, in every debate we have. We will. This 3% VAT increase directly affects the repair of a bicycle at the bicycle maker. The fact that you're disconnecting it is your choice, but I can't get a clear answer from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u68	I am not saying that the effect of that 3% is completely gone, but for the bikemaker that is also not so relevant that people will have their bike repaired less. It's about the fact that people have more to spend. You also know that this is an effect of the coalition agreement. Eventually the consumer will quietly offer his bike to the bikemaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u69	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u70	No, Mr. Von Martels is continuing. I've heard you three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u71	Mr President, I shall continue. There is another aspect to the security of our infrastructure, namely the possibility of a cyber attack. We do not want hackers to be able to open bridges or locks anywhere. We want to see the risks exactly in view. The damage could be enormous. Would the Minister like to have such an overview drawn up? Finally, I come to the problem of the smartphone in traffic. Much has already been said about this in the Chamber. The minister's predecessor, Minister Schultz, indicated that she was considering a complete ban. In addition, she would engage with telecommunications companies, among other things, to use smart technology to prevent people from getting behind the wheel and texting. Does the Minister intend to take over and work on this, to be safer on the road with each other? The CDA calls on the Minister to conduct an active campaign to make everyone, young and old, aware of the dangers of using the smartphone in traffic. The CDA considers it very important that the region remains well connected with the big cities and the urban areas of the Netherlands. In this context, regions also have a well-understood self-interest. If regions are well connected to urban areas, the disadvantages for shrinking regions will be reduced. If you live in a shrinking region but are connected within half an hour at your workplace, it is even attractive to live in a shrinking region. I would like to stress this here and ask the Minister to pay particular attention to the distribution of funds, because the viability and economic growth of our regions depends heavily on good infrastructure. Can the Minister make this commitment? How will the Minister ensure that the region remains well connected to urban areas? Let me say something about the Air Quality National Cooperation Programme. The CDA believes that air quality bottlenecks need to be addressed successfully. Everywhere we have to meet European standards as quickly as possible. When does the Secretary of State expect to send the supplementary plan for remaining bottlenecks to the Chamber? We are approaching 2020, when the EU requires that we at least meet these standards. Therefore, a European policy path for the evaluation of the follow-up to these standards is likely to be launched. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he is. If so, what is the timing of this? Then something about asbestos remodelling. The CDA wants more work to be done on the plan to deal with asbestos remodelling. Motions have recently been adopted on this subject, including a motion to simplify the reorganisation process in dialogue with the sector. Is the Secretary of State going to get on with this? When can the Secretary of State give a feedback to the Chamber? Then there is the coordination of asbestos remodelling. Three departments are currently involved. We expect greater coordination in this area, particularly in the areas of innovation, market forces and the quality of asbestos restructuring. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u72	Thank you. Then we will listen to your partymate, Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u73	Mr. Chairman. As mentioned in the coalition agreement, you cannot avoid good rail and air connections to keep the Netherlands mobile and accessible. Now that things are going well economically, read: the sun is shining, and it's best to fix the roof. For the CDA, it is important that we work together with the regional authorities. They know what is important for developments in the economy and viability, now and in the future. They often also underline this with a proper co-financing of their own. Mr President, I am going to try to work with cubes; let me see if that works with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u74	Make us crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u75	The first block is cross-border rail. It is precisely the railway lines that connect us with our neighbouring countries that are important for our activity, our jobs and the economic growth of the regions. The coalition agreement refers to rail links with the rest of the world. It concerns, among other things, Hamont-Weert, towards Belgium, and Eindhoven-Germany. The CDA considers it important to look further at rail links with our neighbouring countries. Where can we work together with our German and Belgian friends? That is why I ask the Secretary of State to make an overview of such train connections. How can they be realised in the future? We also ask the Secretary of State if she wants to make the most of it in order to contact the EU for financial support for this international mobility. What conditions are attached to this? For the specific project Eindhoven-Germany, as stated in the coalition agreement, we also ask for attention to Eindhoven station, an important junction in the south, in addition to the adaptation on the German side. We know that the high-frequency rail links are now very busy at the stations. Due to developments in the mainport region, it is very important that things are handled both at the station and around the station. Let's see if we can do that again with the region. The CDA calls for more action for needs that fit in with current and future regional development, with co-financing of the regions, municipalities and provinces. For example, I ask the Minister whether, if municipalities and provinces are willing to co-invest, the Empire can achieve this. The CDA calls for specific attention to be given to the implementation of the Maaslijn Nijmegen-Sittard: for electrification, capacity increase and access via station Grubbenvorst-Greenport Venlo. This project is currently being delayed costlyly, given the uncertainties, and there is incomprehension among many citizens, students and entrepreneurs about realising the entire project, including the station mentioned. The CDA wonders whether the funding of the Maasline is going well. Can the Minister indicate whether she is prepared to facilitate this project in consultation with the relevant provinces? I'm going to the next block, Mr. Chairman, on optimal use of the existing track. The CDA believes that more than ever we should strive to maximise the capacity use of rail. The CDA therefore wants the impact on rail use to be taken into account when purchasing new material. Now, according to our information, it appears that due to reduced use of the double-deck trains.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I ask the Minister how this can be done and how we can deal with it effectively and efficiently in the future. In addition, I ask the Minister... That must be the Secretary of State. Forgive me. I'm sure we'll have that change for a while. In addition, I ask the Secretary of State if it would be possible to see whether the railways could be used as optimally as possible within safety standards. Can the Minister, together with ProRail, arrange a work-on-the-rail plan so that the traveller has as little trouble as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u76	Mr Van Dijk, because it sounded like you were going to a new block.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u77	Yes, very good. That works well with the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u78	It is very clear with those cubes, also thank you for that. Mr Amhaouch raises a number of valid questions. It's too busy on the tracks. There's got to be more capacity. We see in rush hour that trains are overcrowded and that people have to stand. But I have also read the coalition agreement and there are plans to open up the railways to other suppliers and to more market forces after 2025. My question to Mr Amhaouch is how this corresponds. On the one hand, Mr Amhaouch and the CDA quite rightly want to make better use of the railways, but if you then start cutting up the railways and offering them to all kinds of providers, then my question is to what extent this will increase the capacity and, above all, ease for the traveller.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u79	The passenger will also have to be at the centre of this market opening. I think the trail's already open. Arriva and the NS are already on track. I agree with you, however, that there must be a proper balance. If we're going to cut it all up into very small pieces, I think we're gonna lose a certain critical mass to absorb the big and perhaps even uneconomic peaks. So we're gonna have to take a really good look at how we're gonna fill that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u80	That is one of my concerns about cutting up the track, which I am not in favour of myself and which I will say about later. Already at Arriva in the north, we can see that trains do not connect, that there are fewer staff on the train and that the social security for conductors is less there and more so with the NS, that there are quality differences. Is that the road the CDA wants to take?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u81	I cannot go along with Mr Van Dijk's suggestion that it is more unsafe for conductors. I would first like to know from the Secretary of State if that is the case. It cannot be that depending on who is on the track, there is a difference in safety for passengers and staff. I do agree with Mr Van Dijk that there should be a balance and that we should not cut all the traces into all kinds of small pieces, because then we would not be doing very well. I would also like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u82	Mr Amhaouch is a spokesperson track and also stands up for the track, which is good, but there is more than trace. Rail investment is quite expensive and not super flexible. For example, how does he feel about such a flexbus or FlixBus, where you can go to Antwerp for €5, to Brussels for €7 and to Berlin for €29? How the hell is that train gonna compete with these kinds of initiatives that just really take you to where you're supposed to be?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u83	But also a bus has to be by road. We just said the road is full of traffic jams. It can be a solution and, of course, we have to look at the mobility issue in its entirety, but I think there is still a lot to be gained on the track too. For example, in the south of the country, the A73 is already beginning to sludge. I was just talking about the Meuse Line. If we can relieve the A73 for the students towards Nijmegen then we have already won a lot. So I think you need to balance and you need to start from the integral mobility issue, but I'm not gonna say here that flexbus or FlixBus is the solution to everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u84	I think it's good to see where investments have the most return. Sometimes it is not just public investment but this kind of initiative that allows people to go cheaper and safer from A to B. If Mr Amhaouch is looking at rail, will he please look at other connections than the ones in Limburg that are currently mentioned? Think, for example, of the Amsterdam-Utrecht-Arnhem line and then cross the border.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u85	I think I just said in block 1 that was about cross-border rail, that we would like an inventory of all cross-border tracks. The Netherlands has quite a few borders, in the north and in Overijssel, Drenthe, Gelderland, Limburg, Brabant and Zeeland. I think there are seven provinces involved in international rail. So our eyes go further, but I just named a number of those who are also in the coalition agreement which do have priority, especially in the south, where many economic developments are taking place, which we should not forget. Then I'll move on to my third block. That's smart maintenance, smart maintenance. Here we can also apply innovation to maximise the use of existing rail. ProRail already cooperates and tells us that the number of train delays can be reduced by almost half by predicting failures, predictive maintenance in English. Technical problems are solved even before they shut down the track. With sensors and combinations of all kinds of data, ProRail can now predict for switches when it goes wrong and therefore perform timely maintenance. The CDA wants this system to be applied much more to bridges and locks. Can the Minister indicate the possibilities for this? Then I'll make a flight up to the airplane. The pilots and the Vereniging Nederlandse Verkeerskliegers have sounded the alarm clock about the insecurity of Schiphol in terms of the safe handling of air traffic, including following the report of the OVV. The CDA believes that security is paramount. That is why it must be given top priority. I call on the Minister to involve the expertise of the people on the ground and in the air from different stakeholders in the discussions that are being held for this purpose. All ideas that contribute to enhancing security must be taken seriously and implemented under the motto "apply or explain." Can the Minister explain what her approach will be in implementing all the OVV's opinions? Then it's the sky. Much has already been said in this Chamber, and there will be a number of further debates on the reclassification of airspace, including with regard to Lelystad Airport. It's getting fuller in the air. Therefore, airspace is divided into areas where specific competences and restrictions apply. In the context of the redesign of airspace, which is needed for Lelystad Airport, it is now helping to hear that your colleague, the Minister of Defence, is going to make an effort to look at all the possibilities in the redevelopment of airspace, and where Defence can contribute to a more effective application, including for civil aviation. We would also like to thank the Secretary of Defense for that. I also hope that this Minister, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, will take a critical look at how both ministries can work better together to classify airspace. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u86	One second. Mr. Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u87	Mr. Chairman. This is my second interruption, I believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u88	Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u89	I was just triggered by the fact that safety is paramount and also that the OVV report is leading in it. If you read the OVV report, it actually states that when air traffic movements are extended over the Netherlands, whether Lelystad or Schiphol, the government must first take back the central direction and also that an airspace classification decision must be made, structuralally, before we can talk about enlargement, otherwise security will be compromised. Does the CDA agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u90	Already, in the current situation, so before we start reorganising airspace, safety was important, it is important and it remains important. In the report, the OVV has clearly stated that it is not unsafe now, but warns that safety must not deteriorate, so we must seize every opportunity to make it even safer. Yes, with the reclassification of airspace we can create some space again, also for growth for Schiphol where it is needed and so that we can fly even safer.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u91	The CDA says security is important. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u92	"Priority" we even called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u93	Priority even. That's great. But is it the most important priority for the CDA, and the most important? Or is it one of the priorities?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u94	Security is a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u95	Number one? Or number two? Or number three?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u96	Priority. We're not gonna put people in danger, we're not gonna put people in harm's way. We're not gonna put people on the plane in danger. We're not gonna put people on the track or working there in danger. Security is a priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u97	So that's number one; good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u98	Then I'll get to my last block. It was also mentioned by the colleague of the VVD: the developments with the hyperloop. That, too, is innovation that I am concerned about. The CDA has received a call from a large number of companies and parties for a one-off investment in a hyperloop test facility in the Netherlands. This will set the standard for the European hyperloop. This would be a huge incentive for a sustainable transport system and innovation in the Netherlands. I would like to hear from the Minister how she looks at this and what possibilities there are. Is this going to be a private construction or a pps construction? We do believe in this innovation, especially with the issues of future mobility and spin-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u99	Thank you. Then Mr Laçin of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the first IenW budget of the Rutte II Cabinet, or Shell I as we saw at the VVD Congress last Saturday. It is a cabinet that chooses the big business and foreign shareholders and accounts for those choices among millions of Dutch people. On the one hand, the cabinet gives 1.4 billion dollars a year to shareholders and tax authorities abroad, on the other hand, millions of people in our country are allowed to pay more for their daily messages and services.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u101	Mr. Laçin, you have a clear voice. If you keep a little distance from the microphone, people can just sit back in their seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u102	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. This is even true of the most basic good we know: clean and safe drinking water, a product that is already under pressure from discharges from the chemical industry and manure and poison from agriculture. Every journey by public transport becomes more expensive due to the 50% increase in the low VAT rate. And against the 100 million for driving bike use, it says that every repair on that bike simply costs more. I would therefore like to give Mr von Martels what I wanted to ask him in an interruption, which was not allowed. He said it doesn't matter that much to the bikemaker. I'm asking him if he even talked to bike makers before he said this. These aren't choices that belong to the greenest cabinet ever. They're choices from a slightly less gray cabinet. Examples of these choices for capital over man and the environment are reflected everywhere in policy. For example, the cabinet says it wants to get rid of the maximum number of flights as a border for Schiphol. The cabinet thus completely ignores the fact that there are already over 110,000 severely hampered residents around Schiphol. So that's a city the size of Dordrecht lying awake from airplane noise and can't sit out decently anymore, but according to this cabinet a few people can join. Doesn't that wake the Minister himself up? In order to maintain the enormous growth of aviation, a strip of asphalt in the Flevopolder should be opened in 2019 to capture 2% of Schiphol's flight movements until 2023. 2% of Schiphol, while Schiphol grew by 6% in 2016, a solution of nothing. We have not yet discussed the errors in the environmental impact assessment, which have been discovered by very persistent volunteers from the HoogOverijssel group, the 80,000 signatures that have been handed over and the thousands of e-mails to MPs calling for the airspace to be reorganised first, then doing the EIA again and then looking at a possible expansion of Lelystad Airport. In addition to noise pollution and additional pollution of the environment and nature, the intended low-fly routes also pose risks to bird collisions. When does the idea finally land that this is not going anywhere? What does the Minister hope to achieve with this? Then there is the public service, which is made more expensive by this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u103	There is a question from Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u104	I have a question for the colleague of the SP. Is he now in principle against Lelystad Airport or does he impose a number of conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u105	I'm setting a pretty good number of conditions for that. We are not opposed in principle, but we consider the link with Schiphol to be extremely important. Schiphol has experienced unbridled growth in recent years, but it has not complied with the selectivity policy agreed at the Alders table. All low-cost carriers and Middle East carriers have been brought in at the expense of new policies. I call them cargo flights, which are now struggling at Schiphol Airport. There must be a solution to this. I have mentioned this in previous debates on selectivity policy 2.0. Only then will we have to look at Lelystad and at the reclassification of airspace. We must also do the EIA again, with good data. We had a debate on this last week. Only then will we have to consider whether enlargement of Lelystad adds anything to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u106	Do you agree that Lelystad Airport is very important for employment in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u107	It will be an incentive for local employment, but I do not think it will solve the employment problems there. I believe that the Empire and the Province can also make very different investments to boost employment in Flevoland and Lelystad.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u108	If employment falls, do you not care?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u109	Those are your words, I'm not saying that. I say that employment, including in Lelystad, can also be driven by choices of the Empire and the Province in a different way. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Instead of making full use of continental high-speed trains as a clean and quiet alternative to the growth of old-fashioned aviation, this cabinet wants to free foreign commercial parties to compete with the NS. Again, we see that the interests of foreign shareholders are above those of the ordinary Dutchman. The traveller just wants to get from A to B, with a simple payment system. He doesn't want to worry about the question: can I get in there or not? That must be the thought. What drives the cabinet to go down the dead end of market forces, while there is a trend worldwide to reverse privatisations and do more public work? Mr. Chairman. The SP welcomes the 2 billion extra invested in the coming years, but considers the old distribution key, with the money going back to asphalt to a large extent, a missed opportunity. A real transition, in which we look comprehensively at different forms of transport, i.e. rail and inland waterway transport, in order to tackle the hustle and bustle of the environment, is not enough in this way. Then the environment, starting with air quality. The SP is very concerned about air quality in the Netherlands. 2017 was an important year in that respect. Environmental defense went to court to enforce cleaner air and was hereby agreed. As far as we are concerned, the current air quality programme is too non-binding and the government is not taking sufficient action to achieve its own objectives. RIVM recently found that the standard for nitrogen dioxide is persistently exceeded, especially in busy streets in large cities. Some of the Dutch live shorter by air pollution. It is therefore important that we take that up and resolve it. I therefore ask the government what measures it intends to take in the short term to reduce emissions of particulate matter and nitrogen dioxide. As far as SP is concerned, voluntary agreements with industry and intensive livestock farming are no longer enough. We are therefore looking hopefully at the expensive promise made by this cabinet to ensure that air quality meets the WHO standard. Mrs. Van Tongeren just ran away. She mentioned some examples of annual deaths. Road safety was mentioned and a number of points, which I have just forgotten. But I missed one important point, which is asbestos. Asbestos causes 900 to 1,300 deaths every year. That is certainly an important point that we want to address as SP. This figure is higher than the number of deaths per year in traffic. 2016 was a sad low point, with a record number of casualties. Unfortunately, we know from research that until 2035 the annual number of deaths from asbestos will not be reduced. In 2024, the ban on asbestos roofs will also apply. Of course, we welcome this, but we are very concerned about progress. Giant steps are needed to clean all roofs in 2024. Does the Minister consider the remaining budget of 35 million sufficient or will the cabinet seek additional resources? Does the government agree with the SP Group that removing asbestos on rooftops is also a good time to install clean energy extraction techniques? And how are you going to implement the adopted SP motion to compensate victims of asbestos without legal detours? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u110	I would like to hear a clarification from Mr Laçin. Recently we had a round table, including a representative of the GGD. What surprised me in a way was that this physician was very critical of the objective of having asbestos-free roofs in 2024. His story was: something has to happen, but as long as it's there, basically nothing happens. It's only risky when fibers are released. So what you have to do is do it smarter. Instead of getting over it massively, you'd better opt for a smart approach by making a good risk inventory and then designing it in that way. Do you feel for this approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u111	Sorry, I was distracted by the chairman. Would you like to repeat the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u112	I saw you get distracted. Yeah, the chairman, huh? The story of the GGD representative was: make sure you make a good risk inventory, draw money for it, see in which order it has to be done and then just deal with it systematically in order of necessity. That means you don't have to sit so tight on that 2024. It's much better to bet your budget in a different way. Do you support that approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u113	I support part of that, because I agree that we need to work on a risk-based basis, that we need to make a proper inventory where the risk of the fibres being released is highest and that we should be the first to get to work there. So far, I agree with the GDD. Only in my view, the GGD ignores the fact that asbestos is deadly. So many studies show that asbestos causes many deaths every year. On the contrary, we must welcome the ban on asbestos roofs, which will enter into force on 1 January 2024. We must make every effort to do so. So I cannot support that part of the argument. I do agree, however, that we need to work risk-orientedly and first to clean up where it is urgently needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u114	The most risky roofs are in fact the oldest roofs, where spontaneous fibres are released. If you do that, you'll avoid killing asbestos. Doesn't that mean that you can use your resources well? Then you can give yourself time to be orderly and calm instead of going through it with a ram, as it were. The latter could even lead to additional victims, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u115	There you point to a good point. We, too, believe that we should look very closely at the number of cleaners in this sector. Are there enough of you to do that for 2024? If so, we'll make it easy with a strong stimulus, including from the Empire. But I will also come back to your other point. As far as we are concerned, the ban on asbestos roofs by 2024 is a good decision. That's what we want to go for. To achieve this, we do not choose to release 2024. No, then we need to see if the budget, if the grant is sufficient, or if there are enough cleaners, so that we are asbestos-free by 2024. Because asbestos victims are not just prevented by a different approach. Asbestos victims are still mainly people who have previously come into contact with asbestos, including at work. Thus, with the ban on asbestos roofs or any other approach, we will never prevent asbestos victims. May I go through, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u116	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u117	Okay. I would like to make a few brief points. First of all, the circular economy. GroenLinks said a few things about that too. The coalition agreement does not contain more than two sentences on the circular economy. In what way is this cabinet going to give concrete substance to the national-wide programme of the Netherlands circular in 2050? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Then microplastics and deposit money. More than ever, plastics and packaging are produced, but households are ultimately responsible for the correct way of waste separation. On top of all other rising costs, they are also increasingly charged for collecting or turning in the residual waste. The packaging industry itself is not put in the way of strawbreed. Meanwhile, the current way of collecting plastic is not enough. Today we have read that Clean Rewards in two years has been able to collect 6,000 small bottles and only 300 large bottles. In two years! I'd like a response from the cabinet. What has been proven is that the expansion of deposit money leads to much less stray waste. Why doesn't the coalition agreement say directly that there should be an extension of the deposit system? I've got a few more minutes, and I'll make one final point about the ILT. We have been calling for more resources for inspection services for years. These have been cut back in recent years, which means that abuses cannot always be detected and enforcement is inadequate. Yesterday, during the Water legislative consultation, we talked about a second company that is losing GenX. Prompt that night was in the media. The company turned out to be Custom Powders, from Helmond. But then we are not yet at the possible third company, which has thus discharged into Eindhoven, where 130 nanograms per litre has been found, almost the limit prescribed by RIVM. So how's that going? Is there a third company? We are seriously wondering what awaits us at this point. Chemours has a permit for discharge. Now there will be another company and in Eindhoven there may be another company: what are we waiting for? Can the Minister respond to this? In recent months we have also often seen images of abuses in the transport sector. This is my final point. There is no maintenance of cabotage and driving and rest periods, and in the parking spaces the situation for drivers is distressing. Exploitation and displacement of drivers is the order of the day and we are letting it happen. How many signals does this minister need to underline that the ILT is currently failing due to a lack of capacity? Is the Minister going to fix this deficit? I am considering tabling an amendment on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u118	Thank you. Then we are going to listen to Mr Jetten from the D66 Group. I note that we have an hour and three minutes left in pure speaking time. That would mean we'll be done by 7:00. Then we'll just let dinner break sit. This is for your information. I call Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u119	Thank you, Mr President. I see "eight minutes" here, but if it's okay, I've got a little more in the first term. Mr. Chairman. On behalf of team IenW of D66, I warmly welcome the two directors. I wish them good luck, too. Mr Jessica van Eijs will deal with the issues of the environment and circular economy, and I will focus on accessibility and transport. Mr. Chairman. The economy attracts and we notice that from the crowds on the road and on the train. This calls for additional investment in infrastructure and a different view of accessibility. Not a mode of transport should be central, but the fastest way to get from A to B comfortably and clean. New techniques offer plenty of opportunities for this. The coalition agreement is smart about that. D66 wants people to take the bike more and more easily. Most Dutch live less than 25 kilometers from their work, an ideal distance for the bike, especially for the e-bike. We therefore want to improve the network of bicycle connections, more bicycle storage at stations and a safe and comfortable cycle path. That's why I'm glad this cabinet is pulling out 100 million for the bike. When municipalities and provinces invest with us, a huge fund is created to make that bike even more attractive. At the same time, this is also good against congestion and for our health and the environment. A few questions to the Secretary of State. How is it going to make the most of this amount? How is it going to create an investment fund for bicycles with municipalities and provinces? How does the Secretary of State ensure that the new bicycle infrastructure and the new stables meet the requirements of this time? So no road safety poles, but also more space for e-bikes and baking bikes at the stables. And how can we always look smartly at large-scale infra-projects to see if we can improve things for the bike as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u120	You want to promote cycling. I couldn't agree more. In the past few years we have seen a stagnation in commuting. Despite good recommendations and good ideas, this is hardly developing. Do you see any possibilities there? Do you have any good ideas on how to promote that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u121	I think that with that extra investment that we have released, we can do a lot. I myself live in the Arnhem-Nijmegen region. In recent years there has been considerable investment in highways between major cities and between business areas. There are also many more bicycle streets inside the city. You will notice that the use of bicycles will increase enormously. Let's apply the lessons that have already been learned in a number of places in the country, now also in the rest of the country by investing more in bike highways, by looking smartly where we can improve bicycle connections and by making the bike sheds comfortable and giving enough capacity. I think a lot of people will like to choose the bike. I was just saying that the e-bike is really perfect for the average commuting distance of 25 kilometers. If we just make sure that people can choose the bike, they leave the car more often. Mr. Chairman. Next to the bike, D66 opts for public transport. By investing significantly more in the rail sector over the next few years and giving new taxi and taxi concepts ample scope, we are committed to smart and fast door-to-door transport. The extra money from the coalition agreement is mainly intended for border-ov and urban regions. Additional trains, trams and metros are needed because of the huge hustle and bustle in the city-ov and the mega chart for housing in those areas. But also in the region it must and can be done better. It has just been discussed: we have to trade the old-fashioned local bus for much more demand-oriented transport. Is the Secretary of State prepared to reach a joint agenda with the metropolis regions Rotterdam-Den Haag and Amsterdam-Utrecht in the short term for better urban development in the Randstad? What legislation does it intend to amend in the short term in order to enable new OS concepts in the region? And is the Secretary of State prepared to reduce the Kiwa rates for a taxi license as soon as possible to a cost-covering rate, so that entrepreneurs there get more space? In the area of rail, the cabinet also opts for 3kV overhead contact line voltage. Trains can thus increase faster and thus create additional capacity on the track. On what time can we get started with the roll-out of 3kV? 3kV also leads to energy savings and thus a closing business case. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to finance this business case partly with private money and Invest-NL? And isn't electrification of the Meuse Line in Limburg a wonderful pilot project to roll out 3kV in the short term and gain experience with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u122	We know D66 as a party that wants to promote sustainable and green transport and transport. Does D66 agree with the SP that handling the old key, with over 53% of the 2 billion going back to asphalt, is a missed opportunity? Can we look in the Chamber together to see if we can spend the 2 billion otherwise, for example in more rail and, above all, more inland waterway transport to transport goods? Is D66 willing to think along with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u123	I will come back to the investments in roads that this cabinet is going to make. I can reassure you immediately: we also made agreements in the government agreement to make water and rail much more attractive to freight transport. So that's where we'll find each other. We also agreed in the coalition agreement that we should move towards a mobility fund from 2030 onwards. I think that the agreements we have made on this are better because you will have an integral view of how you can best deal with the accessibility of each region as well as possible. At the same time, we are now dealing with the MIRT-systematiek and the Infrastructure Fund. We must also simply acknowledge that we as the Empire have already made agreements on this with many governments, with provinces and municipalities who are happy to be able to start these projects in the coming years that they have been working on for so long. I also think it is good governance to finish the Infrastructure Fund properly until then. In the meantime, as a Chamber, let us look closely at how we can make this mobility fund contribute to these integrated accessibility solutions as far as possible from 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u124	We also see this mobility fund as a serious problem. It's just too bad it doesn't come until after 2030. Well, why not before, I'd like to ask you that way. You say that you want to make inland waterways and rail more attractive to freight transport. If we stick to that old key, how does the D66 group see it? How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u125	I think Mr Laçin should also acknowledge that, as Mr Van Aalst of the PVV said so well, this cabinet is catching up with infrastructure investments. The previous cabinet has done far too little about this. We are going to invest significantly more in roads, in railways and even 100 million extra for bicycles. It is truly unique that the bike has been given such a prominent place in a coalition agreement. We are already working on this mix as a new cabinet and we are also going to use all kinds of smart solutions to ensure that freighters opt for water and rail much more often. Mr. Chairman. I had just spoken briefly about 3kV, but I also have a question about the additional resources for rail. I am curious to see the state of play of the potential management and maintenance deficits previously shared with the Chamber. I am curious to see what the Secretary of State can do to deal with these deficits. I agree with the CDA's words on smart rail maintenance, but I also wonder if the Secretary of State is prepared to look with regional carriers and concession providers at more late-night work so that the costs of maintenance can go down. For D66, full commitment to smart and sustainable mobility also means opting for innovation. Just a small and busy country needs to have new technologies. After all, the recipe of more and more asphalt is insufficient. The Netherlands now belongs to the international top of innovation. Think of SmartwayZ in Brabant, transport companies working on truck platooning and students from our TUs who set the tone internationally with solar cars. In Delft we are also working on a new miracle, the hyperloop: in a few minutes from Amsterdam to Groningen or from Amsterdam to Paris. That would be great and, among other things, make much of the traffic and flying unnecessary. Internationally there is a need for a good testing location. Flevoland seems like an ideal location for that. Is the government prepared to work with industry on this? A number of other groups have just spoken about this. Together we are considering tabling a motion on this point. Innovation also requires digital security for our vital infrastructure. I am thinking of bridges, locks and quays. In the coalition agreement, we allocated some 7 million dollars to cyber security. I would like to hear from the Minister what plans she has to work on cyber security in this area. For D66, as I have just said, the centre of gravity is bike, public transport and innovation. But the increasing traffic on the road also calls for action against traffic jams and for cleaner air. D66 wants to focus the additional resources for roads on smart investment. In particular, we want to improve road safety and the flow of traffic. For example, longer access and exits on busy highways, more digital information boards and smarter use of smart traffic lights, turbo roundabouts and that sort of thing. Is the Minister prepared to look at smart solutions in the philosophy of the mobility fund to be formed in the event of bottlenecks on motorways in the coming years before using additional asphalt? We can also make better use of our infra by seducing motorists to get on the road at other times. Thanks to ICT and apps, we can organise that simple and smart. This cabinet will carry out pilots with the Mobility Alliance to see what are the most effective forms of payment to use. Is the Minister prepared to take the lead in starting some of these pilots together with companies and regions in this cabinet period? In the coalition agreement it was agreed to work together with the city and the province to improve the Northern Randweg Utrecht. By ensuring uneven ground crossings, we improve road safety and the flow of traffic. The city council and provincial states have already allocated extra money for this. Is the Minister prepared to agree with the Utrecht region as soon as possible on the contribution of the Empire to the NRU? And does it want to make an effort to implement the improvements to the NRU as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u126	I hear my colleague from D66 say that he is happy with renewal and not just to build asphalt. How pleased is Mr. Jetten of D66 with the idea of the toll system, the road pricing, of his colleagues in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u127	We agreed in the coalition agreement that we would start pilots with regions and companies. I think it is right for regions and companies to discuss with the Minister what pilots they would like to carry out. We also clearly agreed in the coalition agreement that we should get rid of this old-fashioned discussion of toll gates. I think these days, with all those smartphones and all those smart cars, we can come up with very different ways to reward or seduce people to get on the road at other times. Let's just use a couple of pilots to investigate what's effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u128	So I can conclude that D66 is happy with the charging as it is now going to be introduced in Amsterdam?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u129	Nothing has yet been introduced in Amsterdam. I note that a number of political groups in Amsterdam are already taking the lead in coming up with proposals for pilots to investigate what are effective forms of paying for use, and that is exactly what we agreed in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u130	So D66 is happy to pay to use?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u131	If we want to fight traffic jams and keep the Netherlands moving, we can do so by investing extra in asphalt, by investing extra in rail and by making the bike more attractive. But we also need to look at ways in which we can seduce people to get on the road at a time when that road has enough capacity and space, and we're going to investigate that. In addition to our group's concerns about the maintenance of rail, there are also concerns about the delayed and delayed maintenance of roads. According to the budget, there is already a deficit of about 0.5 billion, which could in future amount to a potential budget deficit of 1.2 billion euros for main roads and waterways. How's the Minister gonna handle this? Mr President, then road safety. Much has already been said about this, and that is right, because safety must be paramount for all traffic operators. Traffic accidents are increasing and road accidents are the main cause of death for young people at the moment. We need to reduce the number of victims. I am therefore proud that we agreed in the coalition agreement to embrace the manifesto 'Transport safety: a national priority'. Branch organisations, municipalities and police are eager to give hands and feet to this. My appeal to the minister is: don't spend a year in the ministry thinking about what to do, but take this manifesto and go straight to work with that manifesto in hand. D66 calls for special attention to be given to two issues: firstly, improving accident registration, so that we can address more targeted unsafe situations and locations, and secondly, it has also been said a number of times that telephone use in traffic. As far as D66 is concerned, the emphasis must be on prevention and awareness. I'd like to draw a comparison with the bob campaigns. It took us years to change the social standard for alcohol behind the wheel with these bob campaigns. That will also be the case with telephone use, so we really need to bet heavily on that. The Minister has also received a spicy dossier, namely aviation. In the years to come, we need to reduce the nuisances of flying even better, better inform residents of airports and drastically reorganise airspace. That's a question of direction, decisiveness and care. The Minister has used these words several times over the past week, which creates expectations, but also confidence. The cabinet is coming up with a new aviation note and D66 wants this note to provide longer-term rest and clarity on the aviation dossier. In doing so, we focus on nuisance reduction for a better living environment and air quality. Only if there is less noise and less emissions can more be flown. The sector stands at the bar for smarter and cleaner aircraft, but we, too, as a government, can drive greening. What efforts will the Minister make to achieve excise duty on kerosene and VAT on airline tickets at European level next year? The government also has its own purchasing power, with the green deal for biokerosine. What efforts are we going to make as a government to ensure that the biokerosin is more used by airlines that use the Netherlands? Of course, we have to consider whether the biokerosin used is really decent biokerosin, so that we do not cause a problem elsewhere in the world. The biggest challenge to reduce nuisance and facilitate increasing air traffic is the reclassification of Dutch airspace. D66 has been advocating this for years. At what time does the Court receive a plan of approach for the reclassification of airspace? How does the Minister ensure that stakeholders are given a role in this process? Important in this reclassification of airspace are agreements with Defence and with our neighbouring countries. Minister Bijleveld has already indicated his goodwill in dealing with the defence budget, but we do not yet know what to expect from our neighbouring countries Belgium and Germany. Can the Minister indicate where it stands in this process and when results can be expected there?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u132	"Air transport is the nail to the coffin of the climate." I wonder if my colleague Jetten read this headline this morning in De Volkskrant. I have here the research that this article was about. My question is whether D66 shares the analysis that it is only with fewer flights that the objectives of the Paris climate agreement can be achieved, so that we really need to reduce air traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u133	There are two things to note. Firstly, there has been a huge increase in the demand for flying in recent years. If we can believe the predictions, this demand will grow enormously in the coming decades. People just want to fly: for their work, for family visits or for vacation. I think we should look carefully at how we can facilitate this in a decent way. I do not agree with you that we can only green up aviation by flying less. It's a huge challenge, though. Aviation is the dirty little boy of the class when it comes to transportation. That is what the aviation sector itself needs to do. I therefore find it reassuring to see that parties such as easyJet have already announced that they want to offer short distances in Europe with fully electric aircraft in the short term. I find it reassuring that in the coalition agreement we agree that dirty and noisy aircraft will receive additional fees, so that we encourage airlines to buy the cleanest and quietest aircraft. I think that at this point D66 and GroenLinks are different. I would like to look at the challenge of getting the aviation sector green and quiet as soon as possible. I hope we will find you by our side in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u134	My question was not whether you agreed with my analysis, but my question was whether you agreed with the analysis from this research, which shows that despite all the technological progress and despite all the innovation that is needed, and which GroenLinks really wants to welcome and encourage, we will still have to fly less to achieve the Paris objectives. I repeat my question. All the profits that we are now achieving in reducing CO emissions through technological progress are currently being offset by the growing demand for flights. Does Mr Jetten see the possibilities of generating more accessibility with fewer flies?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u135	D66 is a strong supporter of rail connections across the border. I just talked about the hyperloop, too. We also need to develop such alternatives. There I see huge opportunities for the future. And for aviation, these kind of reports are just really good wake-up calls. We have to go to cleaner and quieter in the years to come. That is why we also agreed in the coalition agreement that we in the Netherlands are no longer blinding ourselves to total or maximum numbers of flight movements, but that we in the Netherlands are going to steer against interference. The aviation sector itself is at the stake here. The government can send extra, for example by excise duty on kerosene. That is where the challenges lie. If we can do that, the aviation sector could grow. Doesn't it get cleaner and quieter? Yeah, then that room for growth is just very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u136	Does Mr Jetten therefore support GroenLinks' proposal to ask the cabinet to really come up with a concrete plan to facilitate more international rail traffic within Europe, so that fewer flights need to be flown in Europe? Does he support us getting a concrete investigation? What buttons can we turn on and what measures must be taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u137	I think that analyses on how to improve international rail traffic can never hurt. So I look forward to the answer of the Secretary of State on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u138	When D66 was in favour of a meat tax, there was a conference that said: we should not have a meat tax. Mr Pechtold also said in this House: yes, the congress is the highest administrative body, and that is what we are following. That was the end of the meat tax for the time being. Now the D66 Congress has also adopted a motion on the reclassification of the airspace and the opening of Lelystad. It states that Lelystad cannot be opened until the airspace is classified in such a way that the nuisance is minimal. This means, in ordinary human language, that it concerns the reclassification of after 2023. So does Mr Jetten agree with the D66 Congress, which said that, if it opens, Lelystad can't open sooner than after 2023? Or does Mr Jetten ignore the ruling of the highest body in D66 and, therefore, is he going to shop selectively in the statements of the Congress?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u139	In my opinion, this Chamber has passed a dozen motions on Lelystad Airport this autumn. D66 was one of the co-subscribers in many of those motions. These motions, then the Secretary of State, have given a number of assignments for the opening of Lelystad Airport. It's about just moving flight movements from Schiphol Airport to Lelystad, so you don't get that crazy autonomous growth that we've seen at Schiphol Airport in recent years. We have adopted motions on speeding up the reclassification of airspace. We have adopted motions on the reduction of nuisances over the East of the Netherlands. A lot has happened since that autumn debate. Since that debate new information has come out about the EIA for Lelystad and we have received some very interesting analyses from, among others, HoogOverijssel. As a result, our group is once again looking critically at Lelystad Airport. That is why the Chamber is currently holding a number of technical briefings. You also know that these technical briefings will continue at the initiative of D66 and the CDA. The minister will be coming soon with the routes for Lelystad. We will be making a very critical assessment of the nuisance caused by these routes and whether the EIA has been properly implemented. Then we will probably have an extensive debate with the Minister in January on whether the conditions for Lelystad have been sufficiently fulfilled or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u140	Thanks for the answer. You are actually answering another question, namely are there any motions tabled by D66 in this house? That's right, but the question was: is D66 going to take over the motion adopted at its own congress? Will the D66 Group in this House take over the motion of the D66 Congress, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u141	As a group, we see the motion of our congress as in line with the commitment we have been making for months at Lelystad Airport, namely the line that we are very critical of the possible nuisance and nuisance caused by Lelystad Airport. The motion passed by Congress is an important push in the back for our line. This means that, in the forthcoming debates, in the new information from the EIA, we will be very critical when determining the routes of flight, as to whether the conditions have been met.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u142	That is a welcome answer, because with D66 we will also look critically at whether D66 is indeed carrying out that motion of one's own congress.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u143	That's good. Mr. Chairman. My last block is freight. The Netherlands is the most sought after EU country for transport companies to settle down. To maintain that position in the world summit, our mainports, brainports and greenports must remain competitive. This cabinet provides a fairer playing field for our ports and is strongly committed to stimulating inland waterway and rail freight transport. This offers opportunities for sustainable and smart transport and for stooling our road network. The introduction of the Maut is also important. After all, transport does not respect borders and requires a level playing field at European level. With Maut all trucks pay fairly to our infra and not only the Dutch license plates. It has also been agreed that we are partly committed to greening and innovation in the transport sector. The coalition agreement literally states that the Maut will be introduced as soon as possible. What is the Minister going to do to do that as soon as possible? Can it send the Chamber a roadmap and a rough schedule? Finally. The coalition agreement also states that a green deal with inland navigation and shipping will be concluded. Given the sustainable opportunities offered by this form of transport, D66 would like to take this up quickly. The House of Representatives has already taken the initiative to organise a round table on this subject next week. But I would also like to hear from the Minister what role she sees for the government in making that green deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u144	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Eijs from the same group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u145	Mr. Chairman. Anyone who thought that environmental matters were only for goat woollen socks was mistaken. Last week, the AD reported that the environmental sector is flourishing. It's even become a real job engine. Care for the environment also provides jobs, the AD concluded. Economists of the CBS concluded that 140,000 full-time jobs were added to this sector in 2015. Those are nice conclusions D66 thinks. Besides the people with goat wool socks, the environment is now also something for people with vigogne wool socks in the Oxfords or loafers. Mr. Chairman. Great agreements have been made in the coalition agreement on the environment. The government continues to take responsibility for healthy air for residents. This is why a new National Action Plan on Air Quality is being drawn up and municipalities are being given more opportunities to ensure healthy air and to opt for an environmental area. D66 sees environmental zones as an important means of ensuring that the inhabitants of cities breathe cleaner air. They have a right to that. I see a big role for municipalities to make their own choices here. After all, they know what works best in their city. The National Action Plan for Cleaner Air also plays a major role in resolving bottlenecks in certain areas and thus in meeting European standards. D66 wants to make haste with the Air Quality Action Plan and asks the Secretary of State if she sees this urgency. In addition, we would like to be more clear about the plan of action and what concrete steps it has already taken in the field of air quality in these three areas. D66 wants all public transport to be emission-free as soon as possible, on green electricity or on hydrogen, so that there are no diesel trains in the Netherlands as soon as possible. A lot of ov also drives in the cities, where air quality is a bottleneck. Does the Secretary of State see opportunities to extend the fine examples that we see in the country, such as electric and hydrogen buses, in consultation with local authorities? The fact that dieselgate came to light is two years ago. At the time, my group asked questions about this. We are still watching this very closely, including in Europe. Also today the news report that the ACM has decided on a fine for Volkswagen. The government agreement agreed that from 2030 onwards all new cars will be emission-free. Europe also recently presented its ambitions for electric cars. Unfortunately, this was not entirely in line with our ambitions. That is why we ask the Secretary of State if she sees any possibility of resolving this mismatch in policy. Does it see opportunities to find support in Europe for greater ambition in this area or the possibility of forming a European leading group in this area? We'd like to hear it from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. You will understand that I was pleased when I heard that Secretary of State Van Veldhoven would start working on the circular economy portfolio. With her ambition and commitment in the past in this area, I have every confidence in it. But I will also, of course, follow her critically and check whether the agreements of the government agreement are being implemented quickly enough and whether the current policy on circular economy is still ambitious enough. Wasn't it Secretary of State Van Veldhoven himself who tabled a motion as a Member of Parliament at the time asking for a monitoring programme for the government-wide Circular Economy Programme? I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State about the implementation of this motion and whether we can see any results. In 2016 we set the transition agendas together. If it's okay, we can receive these agendas at the beginning of 2018. There is currently an agenda for biomass from food, plastics, manufacturing industry, construction and consumer goods in the making. However, there is still no specific transition agenda for textiles, while textiles also have a major impact on the environment. Did you know that the production of a pair of jeans costs 8,000 litres of water and one kilo of cotton costs 17,000 litres of water? D66 therefore wants to encourage high-quality textile recycling. The Salvation Army recently also called the doorbell about this. D66 wonders: are the current transition agendas or the covenant of sustainable clothing and textiles sufficient resources to actually stimulate this high-quality recycling? To stay on this topic: textiles consist of many different materials. It is not always clear which substance is good or bad. When you want to know more about it, there is a lot of conflicting information. Is organic cotton or polyester the most sustainable choice now? This is confusing for both producer and consumer and it does not help to choose a sustainable textile type. That is why D66 asks the Secretary of State if she can clarify what is and what is not sustainable, so that it is clear what the sustainable choice is. Mr. Chairman. We have agreed that the Netherlands wants to be completely circular in 2050. And this includes the socially responsible procurement policy. This should be as sustainable as possible. After all, the government has a large purchasing volume and thus the strength to stimulate societal transitions in a smart way. D66 believes that sustainability should be an assessment criterion for all tenders. Then it really pays for companies to be sustainable. We therefore consider it logical that the public authorities should take into account the social costs of unsustainable products or services, such as social costs of CO emissions. We have also drawn attention to this earlier, but we are happy to return to it and therefore ask the Secretary of State to look at the possibilities of taking these social costs into account as a criterion for purchasing from the government and also to offer opportunities for new socially responsible entrepreneurs, so that they too can participate and encourage their commitment. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's views on this. Finally, Mr President. A wise man once said: every right implies a responsibility, every opportunity an obligation, every property a duty. We have the right to clean air, so we also have the responsibility to keep this air clean. The circular economy offers plenty of opportunities and that is why we are obliged to seize these opportunities with both hands. We occupy a place in this House of Representatives and that brings with it the duty that we take care of our environment and the world around us. We only have one globe; let's take it easy. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u146	Thank you. Then Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are discussing the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water Management. I welcome both directors. It is your first budget and so is I, so hopefully that will create a link. Before I start, I would like to reassure Mr Dijkstra, because the bus to Lienden runs every hour. So you can just take the bus home tonight. Not by car, that's good for the environment. Then that's corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u148	Point of order. I live a bit in the outskirts. That's a three-mile walk. I'm taking the car tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u149	Three kilometers of walking is healthy, too. Anyway, that point has been corrected. Mr. Chairman. When people drive away from home in the morning to work or training, they want to be sure that this can be as safe as possible. Everyone wants to make sure that he arrives safely and that he gets home safely by the end of the day. That seems to be an open door, but that security requires a lot of effort in a full and complex country with an overcrowded infrastructure. Our highways are filled with traffic and people at peak moments. And our trains and stations are full of travelers. Of course, they all care about comfort, but safety is of the utmost importance. And it is up to the government to create the framework conditions for that. With this look, we will also assess the budget and the new plans of the new cabinet. So you want to make sure that the train runs on time and safely and that you have a seat, even in rush hour. And also for the car, you want to be safe on the way. Mr. Chairman. I would like to focus on three points: rail procurement, freight transport and, if I still have time, plastic soup. First of all, the trail. The Government Agreement states that, on the expiry of the concession of the NS, towards 2025, the option of opening the rail market on the main rail network is left open. This means potential: tendering and more parties going on that main rail network. This brings with it the high risk of more expensive travel and fragmentation of the railways. The question is for whom this contributes to collateral, except for a number of new market players. And for what problem is this a solution? NS and unions aren't for it. Of course, the NS has to deliver quality, and we have to stay on top of that, but if they do, there is no reason to put the passengers and staff at the NS in uncertainty and a fragmented track. The traveller wants to travel quietly and no hassle with switching and waiting times. Chop up our own headnet, what's in it for the traveler? What's in it for the employees? The traveler wants rest on the track. I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u150	I fully agree with Mr Van Dijk that the traveller should be at the centre. But does he also agree with me that in recent years, decades on a number of regional lines more other carriers have started to drive and that on those lines, where the NS used to drive one old stop train in the hour, now is a good product for the traveller, with sometimes four times an hour a stop train, which fits perfectly with bus transport? So does Mr Van Dijk agree with me that, precisely when it comes to regional accessibility, we should put regional authorities in the lead so that they can make regional concessions with a smart combination of bus, train and other concepts?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u151	There are two discussions. One is about whether you should also contract the main rail network. That's what the coalition agreement says. That main rail network is now on the NS. The NS is doing that now and we can stay on top of it as a room. Because we can give direction to the NS through the Cabinet, through the Secretary of State. We can make conditions for the NS. It is true that there are other carriers in a number of regions, and that they ensure that this is also included in the call for tenders, that they also continue to run uneconomic lines, because that is crucial for the region. We were just having a little debate about that. Also in the region you should always be able to travel by public transport from A to B. You don't want to scare people out of there. What the cabinet is doing, or what it wants to propose, is to go and get the main rail network, at least after an evaluation. That's what I'm worried about. So I'm warning you about that. You have rightly said that our trail is full. A number of other groups have said the same. We must do everything we can to increase capacity, with new equipment, but not with new providers. That's not the way we should go. From the region of Arriva we hear from conductors of NS that they are concerned about social security at Arriva. We hear that Arriva does not work with the same conditions and the same staff and that social security is not taken into account. There are concerns about this, and we must also bear this in mind in the current procurement procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u152	I conclude, therefore, that Mr Van Dijk supports part of the coalition agreement, namely the intention to examine whether a number of stops or stops can also be included in the regional concessions. Mr Van Dijk is only critical of a possible further procurement of the main rail network, but we find each other on the point that we simply need to give very clear framework conditions to NS, that we need to be critical if performance is not achieved and that we have to have the courage to draw conclusions from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u153	I would like to add one more thing that is important. It is an integral responsibility. This is particularly true of the NS. So you are talking about the stations and constant consultation with the Ministry about social security and staff, for example. We do not have that power, to put it bluntly, with regard to those regional providers. I'm worried about that. There are indeed a number of lines that have been outsourced and tendered at the moment, and that now works well for the region, but I think that we should continue to pay attention to safety and that we should set the same quality standards as for the NS. I'm allowed to move on, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u154	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u155	I am sticking to the issue of tendering. How does the Minister see aspects such as security, reliability and affordability in a fragmented and crippled main rail network with the market drive instead of a reliable partner, on which the government can and should steer? And here's another thing: yesterday several media reported that the province of Limburg is already planning to launch a call for tenders for an intercity line, namely that of the direct intercity Eindhoven-Düsseldorf. As a result, the market approach is already being chosen early on for an intercity path and thus for the beginning of uncertainty and fragmentation. What is the position of the Cabinet and what is the position of the Secretary of State in this regard? How does the Secretary of State guarantee the quality and security of passengers on this route? Then there's the freight traffic. In the truck on the road is for many drivers in the Netherlands a way of living. It's a nice job. The transport sector is a thriving sector with proud employees for a reason. However, many drivers experience that their profession is being hijacked by transport companies competing with old Eastern European trucks with drivers treated like animals. For months they sit in a cabin for a hunger wage. That's not good for these people, and that's not good for safety. It is bad for the sector and it increases the nuisance in the parking spaces in the Netherlands that are full of foreign trucks. Stronger European regulation is urgently needed. I've been asking questions about this recently. There are regular signals about wild west scenes, with concerns about the level of control and control of the participation of foreign truck drivers, especially with regard to statutory rest and driving times and their control. Can the Minister comment on this point? Does it want to provide places that bring responsible conditions and safety closer? How, for example, is it dealt with with international drivers who are now avoiding paid parking locations and who are therefore more difficult to trace and control when it comes to the rest and driving times to be used? In what way does the Inspection Leefenvironment and Transport respond to this? Is there sufficient capacity at the ILT? How will we work with the Ministry of Social Affairs and the SZW Inspection? Is it not time for a joint plan to deal with the various inspections? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. Finally, the plastic soup. In May, the Chamber received a cabinet letter on the broad shared ambition in the Chamber to reduce the number of small plastic bottles in the litter by 90% within three years. This great and important ambition is chosen when it comes to reducing litter, because it is better for the environment and because it contributes to improving the living environment of many people. But it requires a far-reaching ambition to live up to that ambition. The previous Secretary of State also indicated this in a letter to the Chamber. I quote: "The petition motion of the Plastic Soup Surfer calls for effective measures and sets a high ambition of reducing small bottles in the litter by 90% within three years. Without proper justification, the feasibility can at present not be sufficiently assessed. At the end of 2017, I expect to be able to make a well-founded statement on the feasibility of the ambition." What about the implementation of this ambition, which is supported by various parties of the current coalition? How does the government intend to contribute from the coalition agreement and from this budget to the ambition to achieve this within three years? What would a plan to make this happen look like? What will the Dutchman notice about this and how do we involve industry? Finally, what budgetary choices is this cabinet prepared to make to finance this necessary ambition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u156	Thank you. I'll suspend for a few minutes, so the ladies from box K can wash their hands. Then we'll move on later. I hope to be able to finish this debate before dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u157	We're gonna go on cheerful. We are going to listen to Mrs Dik-Faber from the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Happy on" even! I shall begin by welcoming the Minister and the Secretary of State to the Chamber. For both Parliament is, of course, well-known territory. It is good that both directors have experience of the dossiers they are going to deal with: infrastructure, mobility, environment and water. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union is committed to improving air and water quality in our country. We must ensure that our children and grandchildren can breathe clean air and have sufficient and safe drinking water. The Christian Union also wants mobility to be smart, sustainable and integral. This means cleaner transport and smart mobility solutions. That is urgently needed, because the Netherlands is filling up. Traffic pressure is high and trains are overcrowded. The ChristianUnion therefore wants to invest in light rail in the Randstad and in shorter travel times and more direct connections on the rail. The Christian Union is also committed to a circular economy. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to start with that last one. It is not for nothing that I have embraced SDG 12, one of the sustainable goals of the United Nations. This objective concerns sustainable consumption and production. I'll start with the circular economy. Products and materials still end up as worthless waste too often. It is good that there has recently been a commodity agreement. I hope that the transition agendas that are now being worked out will actually lead to the closure of cycles and, in addition, to less litter. The Clean Reward pilot has just been evaluated Today we have also received that evaluation from the Secretary of State. What does the Secretary of State think of the results? With these results, how does the Secretary of State intend to achieve a 90% reduction in litter in three years, as included in the petition motion of the Plastic Soup Surfer? Mr. Chairman. There are also many opportunities for reuse in the area of clothing. Among other things, the Salvation Army collects a lot of clothing, 27 million kilos of textiles each year. The government also encourages the collection. The big problem appears to be the high-quality recycling of the collected textiles, including due to the large amount of fast fashion in the shops. It has also come to my attention that the labelling is often incorrect. This is not really helpful for consumers who want to make a sustainable choice, but cannot do so because they do not have the information. Mr. Chairman. I therefore welcome the answers to my parliamentary questions. The Secretary of State will consult with the clothing industry and other stakeholders, including concrete agreements on the percentage of recycled textiles. When will the Secretary of State consult on this matter? In addition, recycled textiles are effectively used by the uniformed services through their own procurement policy. My question is whether this is going to happen in a state-wide manner, not only by the government, but also by other governments. Mr. Chairman. I find it striking that 76% of the municipalities do not buy the fleet sustainably and do not require minimum environmental conditions. This is evident from research by Nature & Environment, which has become known to us last week. Because the lowest price is awarded, it often amounts to the purchase of diesels. What does the Secretary of State think of this outcome? Is it prepared to discuss this with the VNG? What about the buying of cars by the government itself? Mr. Chairman. A subject that my group has often drawn attention to in recent years is the mopeds and moustaches. As of 1 January, the most polluting mopeds and scooters may no longer be sold. In answering previous questions, the then State Secretary replied that she found the suggestion to phase out the moustache an interesting option that she would explore. More information would be available at the end of the year. Can the new Secretary of State report on this? Then the bike. The Christian Union is pleased that the new cabinet is spending 100 million to invest in cycling infrastructure, so that we can expand cycle highways and bicycle storage. How does the Minister work on this, together with the provinces, municipalities, civil society organisations and other stakeholders? There is an administrative agreement called the Tour de Force, but there are also socially important partners, such as the ANWB and the Fietsersbond. Is the Minister prepared to make an investment plan with all these partners, i.e. with government and civil society? Mr. Chairman. The safety of traffic has also been mentioned by others. The use of a smartphone in the car is literally life-threatening, not only for yourself, but especially for other road users. In traffic you have to deal with what happens on the road. We therefore want the cabinet to make a stronger commitment to tackling smartphone use behind the wheel and to preventing accidents. What's the Minister gonna do about this? Mr. Chairman. I'll be on inland waterways. Inland waterway transport makes an important contribution to the relief of road traffic and to the reduction of transport emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u159	Mrs Kröger, you've already had three interruptions. Well, we'll do another one, but very briefly then and in one go. I'm a weak chairman. I also turn on your sound; that's how it goes today.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just a little bit more about the block of the circular economy. The Christian Union has always been in favour of deposit money. I would like to make it clear whether Mrs Dik-Faber is still in favour of the rapid introduction of a deposit money system for bottles and cans in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u161	Indeed, the Christian Union has always supported the expansion of deposit money. We will, but I think we need to see what the logical order of things is and what agreements we have made with each other. There is a framework agreement and there is a pilot Clean Reward. I got it today. To be honest, I haven't been able to look at that. I have heard sounds that the results are disappointing. So I'd like a cabinet response to that first. The Chamber itself has also agreed on a round table, of which GroenLinks is one of the initiators. So we're all gonna go through that process and then we're gonna see what the smartest solution is to fight the litter on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u162	Very good. You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u163	Okay. I was in inland waterway transport. Inland waterway transport makes an important contribution to the relief of road traffic and to the reduction of transport emissions. It is good that the coalition agreement is also working on a green deal with the sector for the sustainability of shipping, inland waterway transport and ports. The sector is already very aware of the need for greening. How does the Minister intend to involve the sector and the trade associations in drawing up this green deal? Mr. Chairman. There are many opportunities to make inland waterway transport more sustainable, for example by stimulating hybrid engines. Driving on electric motors within port areas reduces emissions enormously. This requires charging points, but also can reduce waiting times by achieving more quay kilometres in the port of Rotterdam. Is the Minister prepared to include these measures in the green deal? I'm considering a motion on that point. My last point has often been raised in the Chamber: the lock at the Kornwerderzand. Widening and deepening the lock at Kornwerderzand is of great importance for the maritime sector and the regional economy. It boosts the shipyards, possibly up to 2,600 additional jobs, and it contributes to the shift from road to water transport. Last year a motion was passed on a state contribution of 30 million. Can the Minister promise that the realisation can be started as soon as possible after the funding has been completed? And does the Minister see opportunities to allow work on the Nieuwe Afsluitdijk to take place at the same time as the lock is widened? Thank you, Mr President. I look forward to answering all my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u164	I have not heard it in Mrs Faber's contribution, but I am curious to see the ratio of the possible procurement of the main rail network from 2025. That's what the coalition agreement says. This means that the NS may no longer be the fixed carrier, but perhaps another carrier. What is the status of the Christian Union in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u165	Let me first say that it is not 2025 yet. So we still have a long time to go. Nor does the coalition agreement say that we are going to contract, but that we are going to keep that as an option. Probably the Labour Party is now too far ahead of all sorts of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u166	I hope so. I hope that I am unnecessarily concerned about this possible tender, but does Mrs Faber also see that various privatisation actions in the past have often not led to better transport and more efficiency but rather to the opposite and that this is a good reason for many people to be concerned, for example the people who work at the NS and who are wondering why this is an option in the coalition agreement at all? Do you share those concerns of those people from the NS but also of the travelers?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u167	With regard to public transport, I think it is first and foremost important that there is good, adequate and affordable public transport for public transport passengers in our country. What has happened over the past few years? On certain lines, we have said that we are going to award them. Then it is no longer the NS that drives there but then the tender is won by another company. That often results in better performance. This was not thanks to the support of the Labour Party, but with the support of the majority of the Chamber. It has created jobs. It has ensured better O.V. performance and affordable O.V. for people. In places where there were no trains at first or where there was a threat that there would be no more trains, trains then started to run, sometimes up to four times an hour. You are all familiar with the Valley line, which has often been raised by me as a spokesperson. All this was not thanks to the Labour Party, but thanks, among other things, to the Christian Union, with the support of the majority of the Chamber. So we're gonna talk about this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u168	I call Mr Van Raan of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We too will make our contribution in two. Mr Ouwehand deals with harmful substances. I, too, have a story in three blocks. I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u170	That's today's trend: cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u171	Yeah, today's theme is "blocks." I didn't, but I did now. The first block is "a nice view." The second block is "a difficult split." The third block is "an elegant way out." First the view: wouldn't it be nice if we lived in a world of clean air, sustainable mobility and sustainable handling of raw materials and if we were to eliminate harmful substances? These are exactly the key points in the policy agenda that are on page 9 of the current IenW budget. That's a nice picture. So much for the block "a nice view." We're going to the "difficult split" block now. If we look at the elements of the IenW budget in conjunction with them, there will be a very different picture. The coalition parties very much like to see "the coherence," "the overall picture." We also saw this in the discussion on the Tax Plan: "the overall package." That other image is the image of the difficult gap. One of the spearheads is: to a clean air. Well, very nice, but at the same time there is a compulsive commitment to the growth of aviation, including the expansion of Schiphol Airport and the opening of Lelystad Airport, with major consequences for safety, environment, climate and the surrounding environment. No action shall be taken against the increase in ultra-fine dust associated with the growth of aviation. That is a well-known phenomenon. Does the Minister agree with our conclusion that if the results of the research, which is being carried out, will not be known for another three and a half years, a possible extension will have been done long ago? It would be very unfortunate if you found out that fine dust emissions are very harmful. I'd like an opinion. At the same time, the State brought an appeal in a case of Milieudefensie in which it called for more commitment to clean air. The State has been ordered to do or leave everything necessary to ensure that air quality meets EU standards immediately. Yet "delay" remained the magic word. A new air quality action plan is yet another year to come, as we have heard. The State has been delayed for 12 years in the field of particulate matter emissions. Enough is enough, we think. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Another spearhead is: towards sustainable mobility. At the same time, however, VAT is increased on train tickets. Every day, not according to us but according to the NS, this will scare thousands of people off the train. The key point is "to sustainable mobility," but at the same time it stimulates road traffic. "From A to B" is what the VVD calls it. We call it "from A to abyss," because we know that more asphalt doesn't work. Apart from the undesirableness of sacrificing soil for extra asphalt, more asphalt is not a solution to the congestion problem. After all, more roads do not lead to fewer traffic jams. I'd like a reflection on that. And then: sustainable handling of raw materials. At the same time, however, the emphasis in the circular economy still seems to be on recycling, whereas we really need to move towards reduced consumption. Even when it comes to recycling, the government keeps its ears on conservative industry organisations, which continue to oppose necessary interventions, such as expanding the deposit money system. My colleague Esther Ouwehand will go into the final point in more detail: the elimination of harmful substances. Mr. Chairman. So it is an extremely difficult split: on the one hand, brilliant intentions and on the other hand, doing things that destroy those intentions. I look forward to the Minister's response in this area. And then the block "the nice way out." To correct this split policy is, to put it mildly, clearly still a great deal of work to be done. A good starting point to get out of that maze, which splits, would be to realize that the system of infinite growth on a finite planet is holding us captive. Does the Minister agree with us that what once seemed to be a good system has become obsolete and stalled, and that we will have to achieve our basic services within the limits of the ecosystem? Maybe she already hears the book Doughnut Economics by Kate Raworth. If she does not know it, she can consult Minister Kaag, who now has a copy of the book. We need to meet our basic needs within the limits of the planet. If we find that the current system has stalled, I would like to zoom in on two examples. They are about what the Secretary of State said so beautifully in her previous role as MP, for example on air quality: in her Healthy Air Action Plan, D66 stands out for the introduction of environmental zones, the reduction of speed increases and the reduction of livestock. Does the Secretary of State agree with us that we still need to work on this and we can take a first step in this today? The second is litter and the long-awaited expansion of the deposit system. There is a wonderful goal here to reduce the number of bottles in the litter by 90% in three years. Research has shown what is the best method for this, namely the expansion of the deposit system. The Netherlands is no longer the frontrunner in this. We trust that the Secretary of State will follow up on this. What's the right follow-up in her eyes? We still have a number of fine motions in the second term, which will certainly appeal to the Secretary of State and the Minister. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u172	We look forward to that already. I call Mrs Ouwehand. She's gonna talk to us for three minutes. We are very curious how many cubes that will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u173	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, welcome to the rulers, who we know from a previous life here in the Chamber. We've got a war going on here. Yesterday, in Europe, a decision was taken on satsumas, the most widely used agricultural poison in the world. It's about in all our bodies; that's how much it's used. You can't drink a beer or eat a sandwich without getting pomegranate in. Europe intended to say that it could be used for another ten years. The good news is that this has now been reduced to five years. The bad news is, of course, five years is far too long. We have had a lot of debates about this in this Chamber. Together with D66, the Animal Party has already received a motion in 2014 stating: let us at least not sell that controversial agricultural poison to private individuals. Thus, a ban on the Roundup of Monsanto and a ban on the sale of satsumas to people who do their shopping in a garden center or anywhere else. At that time, the cabinet said that this motion could not be carried out entirely and that the following compromise was reached: it may still be sold, but people may not cast it on the tiles. We said at the time that was a bit unfeasible. We now know from the stories of Mr Dijkstra of the VVD that he is still pouring that pine on his tiles, because he can take away his algae. So that it wasn't enforceable, is evident from the stories of the VVD fraction. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u174	Yes, indeed an interruption. Are you not present at the wrong debate? I think you have the wrong leaders before you, because Mrs Schouten is dealing with plant protection products. That's what you're talking about, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u175	Yes, but the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, formerly the Environment, is about the use of agricultural poison outside agriculture. This concerns the sale of chemical pesticides to private individuals, but also the use of chemical pesticides by municipalities to combat weeds. Its predecessor has launched several initiatives. If it's right, the use will be significantly reduced, but we're not quite there yet. So I would like to ask a few questions about that, hopefully with the support of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u176	This subject has been discussed so many times. I do not know how many times you want to bring it to your attention, but if it is weekly then I think at some point: I think enough has been said about it now. In Europe, we have come to the conclusion that we should extend it by five years. We are in agreement with this in the Netherlands, especially since the Minister has also taken this view.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u177	That's great fun, but the beauty of it is that very exciting things have happened around satsumas. In the European Parliament, several parties, who are also represented in this House, and not least the CDA, voted in favour of a resolution that says that within five years we must get rid of this stuff, both inside and outside agriculture. Even Esther the Lange of the CDA seems to agree with us. I never thought I'd say it, but I pay tribute to Esther de Lange, who voted in favour of that resolution. Another CDA colleague in the European Parliament also voted in favour of that resolution. That's what I was going to submit to this cabinet. It's funny, because the current minister was at the time, I think, talking to Prime Minister Rutte about her upcoming post. So she missed that vote, but it's on my bulletin board behind my desk. The only parties who do not think that you should phase out and should be removed are the VVD and the SGP. Those were the only two parties opposed. The rest of you say to each other, "Come on, guys, put an end to..." That's a unique thing, isn't it? So my question to the Secretary of State for that matter would be: should we not follow the example of France? That says it'll be over in three years. Ready. Then it's mostly about her wallet outside of agriculture. That is also very important for what we are going to ask farmers. We also ask farmers to reduce their use significantly. Then you would say: we are the first to set a good example outside agriculture. And then we should not look at Mr Dijkstra, who still pours it on his tiles. The green deals that have been made on the exceptions to the ban on non-agricultural arthropods will expire in 2020. Can we agree that, if voluntary measures fail, there will be a legal ban within three years on the use of satsumas on all the exceptions that are still allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u178	I've got to get something straight. I did raise my thumb, but I'm not gonna toss pine on my tiles. Simply because I don't get home much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u179	Okay, then I resist the temptation to ask if anyone else in Dijkstra's house might do that. The cabinet tells consumers that they should not actually use chemical pesticides, should use integrated plant protection products, and should only use such products in their own garden in extreme need. It does not seem that the VVD Group has taken this approach of the cabinet to heart. I would therefore like to agree with the Secretary of State that, in 2020, we will be completely rid of the use of fertilizers outside agriculture. The sale to private individuals would be evaluated in 2018. A bill has been in preparation for a long time to provide the legal basis for the effective implementation of that ban. Can we look forward to that proposal in the short term, so that we can actually get that sales ban, which was requested by the Chamber in 2014, going quickly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u180	Thank you. Then Mrs Van Brenk of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u181	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS looks forward to many good debates and fruitful cooperation with these two new rulers. Figures show an increase in the number of older road fatalities. There is a multitude of causes to this, but it is important not to assume the negative in advance. Stereotyping is lurking and we really must avoid that, without closing our eyes to problems that may arise. Not every older driver is too slow for traffic and not every novice driver is reckless. The new 2030 Strategic Road Safety Plan will be presented in 2018 as a successor to the current plan. It is good that specific attention is paid to groups with a relatively high accident rate. We take the scooter as an example. That is what we are really calling for attention to be paid to. The number of scooters in the street scene is increasing sharply. In 2013, 250,000 drove around and there are estimates that there will be around 600,000 in 2030. It's great that people stay mobile, but given the number, there's plenty of reason to pay attention to this. Scooters are assigned by municipalities. The Ministry has made a manual on scooting mobile use available to municipalities, but we find this really too non-binding. Firstly, we must wait and see whether municipalities use them; long live the freedom of policy! Too often it happens that scooters are put in front of the door so to speak: here is the key, this is the brake, this is the throttle and good luck with it! Secondly, people are not tested for anything. A scooter can move at 30 km/h. It's a machine you need to be able to operate and there are special rules for it. It is therefore not surprising to make a few more demands, not only in the interests of the drivers themselves, but also in the interests of the safety of other road users. We know that Safe Traffic offers local courses in the Netherlands. But isn't it wise to require a course of scooting, funded from the Wmo? In doing so, a certificate of good effect must be awarded before someone actually starts using the scooter. Consideration should also be given to a refresher course at certain intervals. We also call for attention to be paid to the use of mirrors. Can't they be made mandatory, like a hearing test and a vision test? In addition, consideration should be given to phase out the so-called tricycles and to make four wheels standard. In 2015, 2,700 people had to go to the emergency room due to an accident involving a scooter. Very often it was by tilting. If you have four wheels as standard, it is much more stable and reliable. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u182	There is an interruption by Mr Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u183	Isn't Mrs. Van Brenk from 50PLUS getting through this a little bit? When you get one of those scooters or when you're awarded them, don't you get an instruction manual? Is she actually arguing for some kind of scooter license? Where does this end? Older people also ride electric bikes. Do these people have to get a diploma in a minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u184	I am glad that the VVD is asking for this, because there is only one supplier who delivers a manual and by chance also adds what the obligations are in traffic. Maybe it's unknown, but we hear a lot of stories from older people who have never driven a car or anything like that. They were used to shopping around the corner with a bike. Now they're just going into traffic with the scooter. That's really worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u185	I'm scared anyway. Where does this end? Where does people's own responsibility begin and end? People aren't crazy and do they realize they have to deal with this responsibly? That's not so complicated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u186	It's not crazy to teach people how to handle this, is it? We are in favour of a certificate. We're not talking about a driver's license or anything. It's just a matter of taking a course that offers Safe Traffic Netherlands. If people are offered this facility from the Wmo, we think it would be wise for them to have the other facility. Mr President, I shall continue. Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid (Stichting Scientifice Onderzoek Verkeerheid) started a thorough investigation into the safety of scooters in February 2005, but no results have yet been found. Can the Minister inform us about the progress? Does she agree with 50PLUS that more priority should be given to this? I'm on my way to public transport. A trial will take place in Amsterdam with free public transport for the elderly. This is already the case in Rotterdam. Pensioners can travel there for free after the morning rush and also in Eindhoven. This is done in the context of poverty reduction. In the meantime, that part is already on the sign of the municipality. 50PLUS welcomes this test. As far as we are concerned, people cannot stay at home because they cannot afford a bus ticket. In our view, public transport can also contribute to reducing loneliness, which is also large among 65-plussers. The Minister knows that too, because the coalition agreement calls for the fight against loneliness. There's even money for it. 50PLUS wonders whether a discount card, out of rush and tied to income, is not important to support people because of that poverty. 50PLUS asks what the minister thinks of a broader pilot, in more places in the country, with the aim of introducing it nationwide. Mr. Chairman. We are concerned about the accessibility of less densely populated areas. We see more and more local choices being made: whether volunteers are going to man the local bus or public transport is falling completely from the cores. It is precisely because of this development that regular jobs disappear and people are driven back into the car, or they are forced to stay at home. For the elderly, this is disastrous. 50PLUS considers this to be a poor development and wants to know what the Minister is going to do to improve this, especially in the light of the fight against loneliness. For this reason, public transport is also important for the elderly and people with disabilities. How does the Minister maintain accessibility, including in relation to the UN Convention, and affordability of public transport and target transport? A few weeks ago, 50PLUS received the answers to questions on an issue that showed that without medical support, it was possible to make a credible report of poor driving behaviour at the CBR. In that case, the licence shall be suspended immediately. It is good if action can be taken quickly, but this can also lead to abuse of the regime. If someone's having a bad relationship with their elderly mother or just wants to cut someone off, then that's possible. As far as we are concerned, we need to establish clearly defined criteria on the basis of which a person's driving licence can be suspended, otherwise it will lead to arbitrariness. Is the Minister prepared to do this? In doing so, the Regulatory Board gives a rather broad view of the ability to participate in traffic; poor viewing behaviour, for example. I give a quote from Part II, Article 1: "Handling a wrong viewing technique and a bad viewing behavior, whether or not using mirrors, so that in dangerous situations the rest of the traffic is not adequately monitored." In this way, on a random morning in traffic, you encounter many candidates for suspension. It's amazing how many people are getting behind the wheel. Technically, this should not be allowed, but it is taking hold and is a threat to road safety. How do we improve enforcement in this respect? How do we make appende behind the wheel socially unacceptable? Can the Minister indicate what attention is being paid to the dangers of driving training? 50PLUS supports the proposed ban on cyclists' appetizers and as far as we are concerned we can add other participants. The previous minister announced a proposal. When can we expect this? Mr. Chairman. Aviation runs left and right against borders: noise, emissions, an overcrowded airspace. The dilemmas are huge. The rule agreement mentions the import of a flight tax as an option. This must of course be done at EU level, otherwise Dutch passengers will go to Düsseldorf and Dortmund. To what extent does the Minister consider this measure feasible at EU level? Is it prepared to start with this rather than in 2019? What is a possible charge on noisy and polluting aircraft dependent on? The aviation section also mentions smarter and cleaner flying. What exactly does smarter mean? 50PLUS argues in this respect for greater commitment to quieter and cleaner methods of flying, for example electric. D66 told me that, too. What methods does the Minister see to encourage this? In addition, 50PLUS urges the Minister to speed up the reclassification of airspace. Experts will let us know that you really don't have to wait until 2023. It can make us a lot of profit in the noise load. I'd like a response. The last word has not yet been said about Lelystad Airport. HoogOverijssel again showed what was already singing around: a lot has gone wrong around the environmental impact assessment. In any case, the whole process of expanding this airport has a feeling of "it must and it will" as if the outcome had already been established and should not be deviated from it. It seems that the wrong noise data has been used. The differences are so great that a new environmental impact assessment on 50PLUS is inevitable. This time, all relevant parties must be involved from the outset. Major decisions with major consequences must be based on the right facts. How is it possible that these big mistakes have been made and that this has been under the table for so long? I'd like a response. The Provincial State Groups of D66 and 50PLUS in South Holland have tabled a motion, which the deputy would discuss with the former Secretary of State. This concerns examining the possibilities for an off-shore airport in the sea. Can the Minister indicate whether she is aware of this initiative and how she looks at it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u187	We are going to listen to Mr Bishop of the Political Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u188	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday I already expressed my joy at the cooperation with the Minister, whom we are anxiously looking forward to... No, looking forward to it; the time of the year is to it. Now I can express the same expectation in the direction of the Secretary of State. I look forward to working together and I have a lot of expectations for that. Mr. Chairman. It is a well-known saying: He who wants to travel quickly travels alone; he who wants to travel far travels together. If you let that saying work on you, you realize it must be an old saying. A modern variant would become something in the vein of: if you want to travel quickly, you travel together; if you travel alone, you stand still. It'll have to go down for a while, but you'll get it, too. This is a link to the enormous traffic congestion that we are dealing with in our society. I'd like to be the first to dwell on the waterways. The passage times at locks do not meet the target values for major waterways. The capacity of the Volkerak, Kreekrak and Krammersluizen deserves to be expanded. How's the Minister gonna handle this? The General Court notes that there is a risk of a deficit of almost half a billion euros in 2020 for the management and maintenance of main roads and waterways. That's what worries me. Drivers and skippers have lost more and more time due to disruptions at bridges and locks. Maintenance must be in order. How will the Minister prevent a budget deficit? Or is it at the expense of the 2 billion extra infra-euros from the coalition agreement? It is also a good thing that the cabinet is committed to greening shipping. However, for inland waterway vessels these investments are often difficult. Therefore, the SGP advocates a workable set of emission requirements and commitment to innovation. Shipping has all kinds of own business rhythms. If this could be done, I believe that greening can be achieved in a good and economically feasible way. Besides, there's gonna be a green deal. My question to the cabinet is: will this be budgeted? I would also like to mention research institute MARIN. Recently I made a work visit to that and I was impressed by what that research institute is doing in the sphere of shipping. Now the budget for maritime practical research has fallen. The Chamber therefore requested by way of motion that the budget be substantially increased. How's the Minister gonna do this? Then I would like to dwell on the asphalt roads. First of all, I would like to address the issue of road safety. Colleagues have already referred to the fact that the number of fatalities has increased for years and the number of serious injuries has increased. It is good that this is also mentioned in the coalition agreement and that the coalition agreement also embraces the manifesto of road safety, but the Hague paper is rather patient. As far as we are concerned, it must be a national priority. It is not only on the sign of the municipalities or provinces but also on that of the Empire. That is why my question to the Minister is whether she wants to work on a road safety administrative agreement. In this context, is it prepared to urge her colleague for Justice and Security to increase the level of traffic and to keep more alcohol controls rather than less? The figures on this matter are a great deal of concern. Will the cabinet also give room for greater use of municipal boas, extraordinary investigators, in traffic enforcement? Their powers are very limited at the moment. The MIRT priority should not only focus on the National Market and Capacity Analysis, but also on road safety and important regional roads. In this context, I would like to mention two points, and I am doing so because I am unfortunately unable to be present in the deferred MIRT debate, which is why I am happy to bring them in now. These are two specific routes. First of all, that's the N50 at Kampen. That has been agreed, but it seems that the Minister is a little delayed here, despite the motion that has been passed which calls for speed. And I don't mean speed on that road, but speed to make that road safer. It can't be that money stays on the shelf because of a staff shortage, can it? The Minister refers to the National Market and Capacity Analysis but it does not take into account the accident risk. Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to urge you to speed up. As a second concrete route I call the N59, an important traffic route for the Southwest of the Netherlands. For Hellegatsplein there are relatively often traffic jams and accidents. The region itself wants to allocate more than 10 million to broadening. Does the Minister see opportunities to speed up this process by means of combined resources? With the 2014 budget, I have tabled a motion that has been supported by Parliament, in order to bring the price of the mandatory tachograph cards down significantly. Much has been said, but not so much has happened. We look forward to the Minister's action, decisively and decisively. We note that rates are still higher than actual costs and rates in the surrounding countries. It would, of course, be nice if the Minister were to take the first decisive action to bring prices down and bring them in line with other rates. Mr President, I see that time flies. I would like to make a brief comment on the rail link between smaller cities. There seems to be a tendency to disconnect smaller cities from the railway network. I call Woerden-Utrecht and Zeeland, which barely maintained an intercity connection. Is this indeed a trend, and what is the Secretary of State going to do to keep smaller places sufficiently connected to the rapid O.V. connections? Finally, a comment on Schiphol and Lelystad. My question is twofold. We think it would be wise to wait for the opening of Lelystad until the airspace is reorganised. Low-fly noise should be avoided if possible. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Is the Minister prepared to move forward on the reclassification of airspace in close consultation with the Defense Department? At what time can we see agreements on this? Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u189	Thank you. The last speaker on the side of the Chamber for today is Mr Azarkan of the DENK Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u190	Mr President, thank you. Let me begin by congratulating the Minister and the Secretary of State. I hope, of course, for fruitful cooperation and wish them both every success. Mr. Chairman. As representatives of the people, it is our job and our duty to ensure that we not only see people's annoyances, but also see how we can solve them in Parliament. The number of traffic jams, which has been mentioned a number of times, is almost the greatest irritation of the country's citizens in terms of infrastructure. Waiting for hours on the highway on the way to work or on the way home takes incredibly much time and annoyance and can also seriously harm our economy. This could amount to EUR 3.7 billion. This problem is only getting worse in the coming years. According to figures from the ANWB, it increased by 12% over the past year. By attracting the economy, it can be expected that the logistics veins of the Netherlands will continue to subside. Action is therefore needed. According to DENK, most of the profits can be made by making public transport more attractive. With this, we spare our highways and make the Netherlands more sustainable. Investment in public transport is urgently needed. Too many trains run too late, there are still too few seats and many train sets are not yet equipped with the necessary facilities. Why should people catch the train when the journey from The Hague Centraal to Amsterdam Centraal takes an hour and they have to stand all the time? That is why DENK is the champion of public transport in its election programme and its transfer. In doing so, we want to make improvements and provide free public transport for welfare recipients and the elderly. We'd like to call on the Cabinet to do the same. According to the existing key, 53% of infrastructure investment currently goes to roads and only 39% to public transport. As far as DENK is concerned, we adapt that key in such a way that much more money goes to the DVD. With this money, the national government should encourage regional trials with free public transport in peak times. 'Cause those traffic jams really need to disappear. It must be more attractive and the Netherlands must be more sustainable. Not only public transport should be more attractive, but also the bicycle should be a real alternative to the car. This starts with better and safer cycling paths. But another problem has to be solved, namely that people cannot lose their bikes at the station or in the train. ProRail reported today that there is a shortage of 150,000 bicycle spots at train stations. We would therefore like to ask the Minister how much of the 100 million that the cabinet invests in the bicycle infrastructure will be used to create more cycling spots at stations and in trains. Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude with a very important concern for the DENK Group. A group that cares very much about DENK are the taxi drivers. They are hard workers who are ready to take people from A to B from early in the morning to late in the night. They have had a lot of choice in recent years: loss of a permanent job, loss of turnover, loss of a good competitive position. We are therefore very disappointed that the cabinet intends to take the taxi drivers down again by abolishing the refund of the bpm for taxi drivers. This is intended to remove EUR 37 million from the taxi sector, which is already under enormous pressure from unfair competition with Uber drivers, for example. DENK only has the following to say to the Minister: do not weaken the competitive position of taxi drivers, do not increase the taxi passengers' bill, stop it and do not take away the taxi drivers' tax refund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Mr Azarkan was the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. So much for today's debate, at least for the first time in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2017-11-28-tweedekamer-14.u192	Tomorrow at 5:00 p.m. we will listen to the answers of the rulers. So much for today's meeting. I'm closing the meeting.
